K820x#14complaint
Miss F says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss F bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out two mortgages. She says 
she applied  for the mortgages and PPI policy in branch.  The policy  was called Mortgage 
Payment Protection  but I refer to it by the generic  term of PPI. The policy was a stand-alone 
policy that could  cover any mortgage,  not just the ones Miss F took out at the time. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss F for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £400 a month towards Miss Fs mortgage  
balances in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £23.76  a month.  
At the time,  Miss F was employed  as a bus driver. She has told us she was entitled to 
between six and 12 months pay if she was too unwell  to work.  Miss F would receive  
redundancy pay. Miss F has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Miss F says she had 12 months  of savings being other financial means she could have 
relied upon. 
HSBC has limited information about the mortgages Miss F took out but says they were 
redeemed prior to 2006, although it has been  unable to provide an exact date. 
Miss Fs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Fs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Fs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Miss F about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss F and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN51474442The information Miss F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  sometime prior to 2006.  That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN51474443The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Fs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Miss F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN51474444-Whether HSBC gave Miss F sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss F and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Fs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss F know  she had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
There is very limited documentation  available for me to consider. But I dont find this 
surprising as the sale took place  nearly 20 years  ago and businesses  arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. 
Miss F hasnt provided much detail about what happened either  again unsurprising  given 
the passage of time. Its also the case that Miss F hasnt said she thought  she had to take 
the PPI in order to be given  the mortgages or was pressured into taking it. 
So, taking everything  into account and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that Miss F 
didnt consent  to take the policy, I cant fairly say that HSBC  mispresented  the policy  as 
being compulsory  or that it placed  undue pressure  on Miss F to take it out. I think  its more 
likely that Miss F knew the policy was optional and she agreed  to take it.
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC has told us it has no records to indicate if advice was provided to Miss F.  Miss F says 
there was no advice given. And taking into account  the limited  information that is available, 
Im accepting that HSBC  did not provide, as indicated by Miss F. 
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Miss F. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss F was given a broad description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss F was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss F would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN51474445But the evidence  that is available from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether HSBC gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Miss F agreed to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think HSBC  gave Miss F sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss F about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Fs representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss F has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Miss F? To what extent did Miss F 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Miss F. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Miss F would 
have still taken out the policy, had HSBC done  things properly. 
Miss F says she would not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss F had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of Miss F being unable to work. 
Ref: DRN51474446As Ive found above, Miss F chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Miss F thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss F has suffered  any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss F knew she would have to pay 
something for the policy, from the information  I have it doesnt appear HSBC told her the 
exact premium at the point she applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Miss F 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible she might have  raised  that with HSBC at the time, or reconsidered her 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Miss F would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Miss F would get back in 
return in the event Miss F made  a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Miss Fs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss F thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Miss F had 
received treatment or advice during the 12 months immediately before the start date 
and which recurred in the first 12 months  of the policy being taken or any chronic  or 
continuing medical conditions Miss F knew about  when the policy  was taken; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss F pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss F from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Miss F was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Miss F 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss F didnt have any pre-
existing chronic or medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think  she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss F would have  
Ref: DRN51474447expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
HSBC may not have  told Miss F that any claim she made would be limited  to 12 months. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months 
was a longer period than Miss F would have  received full sick pay for and or any redundancy 
entitlement she may have received. The policy would also have meant  that Miss Fs savings  
she has told us about could have remained intact  or be used for other essential outgoings. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss F would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss F be unable to work  in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure her home   for which she was solely 
responsible  was not placed  at risk and might potentially help preserve Miss Fs sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss F would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Miss F was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Miss F would have 
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Miss Fs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss F would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss F 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss F believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN51474448Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss F in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Miss F compensation, as that would  put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss F thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Miss F, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Fs representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss F and about  the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss F in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5147444