K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the way Amtrust  Europe Limited dealt with a claim under his Home 
Emergency Insurance policy. 
background
Mr F noticed a water  leak on his stopcock,  so he called Amtrust  to arrange a repair. 
Mr F was told a plumber would be with him that evening, however they didnt  turn up. Mr F 
called Amtrust and was told there had been  a problem with sending  someone out. He was 
given the option of having a plumber attend in the early  hours of the morning or from 8am. 
Mr F chose  for a plumber  to attend  from 8am however they also didnt arrive, so he had to 
call Amtrust  again. A plumber finally arrived just after 1pm and while  they isolated the water 
supply, they were unable to complete  the repair as the stopcock was in a cupboard.
Mr F was able to remove the cupboard within 20 minutes, but the plumber wasnt able to 
wait and had been deployed to a new job. Amtrust said they wouldnt be able to send a new 
plumber out for three days.  Mr F arranged for his own plumber to attend  who fixed the leak 
within 20 minutes  they said the water hadnt  been isolated correctly  by the previous 
plumber. 
Mr F complained to Amtrust about the service hed received. He was unhappy  with how long 
it had taken for a plumber  to attend and the fact further damage was caused in the 
meantime. Mr F said that Amtrusts agent agreed that the costs of any further damage would 
be covered by them, as the delay had been  caused by them. Mr F asked for compensation 
and for the cost of the replacement flooring  to be covered.
Amtrust agreed to pay Mr F £600 compensation but wanted further information on the cost of 
replacing the flooring. Mr F provided  different  repair quotes with the cost attributable to the 
work relating to the flooring being  around £1,150. Amtrust considered  the matter but didnt 
agree the agent had agreed to the full cost of the repair being covered. It said that it was 
impossible to say how much more damage the delay had caused, it offered Mr F a £600 
contribution towards  to cost of the flooring. 
Mr F didnt  think  Amtrust had offered enough.  He thought the simplest  method of working out 
how much  they should pay is the percentage of time attributable  to the delay over and above  
when the plumber should have initially attended. Mr F worked  this out to be 87.5%. 
Our investigator looked at the case and let Mr F know  he thought the amounts Amtrust  had 
offered was fair and reasonable.  
Mr F doesnt agree, he says that as Amtrusts  agent agreed the cost of further damage 
caused would be dealt with by them, its reasonable Amtrust should pay for what  was 
agreed.
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50951662Mr F has said that I should listen to all of the calls he had with Amtrusts  agents, however I 
dont think this is necessary. Amtrust have admitted the service Mr F was provided with was 
poor and also that his expectations that the additional damage caused  to the flooring would 
be paid for, were mismanaged. I can assure  Mr F Ive taken all of his comments  into 
account, but Ive concentrated  my decision on what I see the main  issues of the complaint to 
be.
Mr F has said his complaint is now only about the cost of the flooring  being  covered and that 
the compensation agreed with Amtrust was a separate issue. However, he has also 
commented that he is unhappy  about  how the claim was dealt with, including what he was 
told about the flooring. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I will consider the overall claim and 
both the amount offered  towards the cost of the flooring and the compensation amount. In 
doing so, Ill make a decision  on whether I think those amounts are fair and reasonable. 
Amtrust have admitted  there was a delay in sending a plumber out. At first there was an 
error in the system meaning  a job wasnt raised for a plumber to attend. And then,  the first 
available plumber in the morning already had another job to attend and was located some  
distance away from Mr Fs home.  
I do therefore think Amtrust should  pay towards the cost of repairing the flooring. However,
I dont agree with Mr Fs methodology  as it assumes the cost of repairing water  damage 
increases equally  with time. I also dont think the fact that one of Amtrusts agents acted 
outside their authority in agreeing to consider the cost of the additional damage,  means  that 
Amtrust should pay the full amount of the flooring  or that it increases their liability in some 
way. This was an error, for which an apology was sufficient.  
There was always likely  to be some water  damage  from the leak that needed repairing and 
the associated  labour  costs with removing and replacing the flooring  which wouldnt have 
been covered  under  the policy.  I do accept however, the delay in a plumber  attending meant 
further damage was most likely caused. However,  I havent seen any independent expert 
evidence which outlines how much of the damage  caused was attributable to the delay or a 
breakdown of the costs associated with repairing only the additional damage caused. 
Overall, having considered everything, I think Amtrusts offer of £600  which equates to 
around 50% of the flooring cost of the is fair and reasonable.  
Mr F has said he was told by Amtrusts  plumber to remove more  tiling than was needed to 
access the leak. The cost of repairing any damage incurred in gaining  access to the leak,  
isnt covered by Mr Fs policy. Different  plumbers may work to different safety parameters 
according to the organisation  they work for. Its not for me to say those are incorrect or make 
a judgement on the right amount tiling which should have been removed. I understand 
Mr Fs frustration here; however I wont be making an award for the replacement of tiling.
Mr F is understandably unhappy  about how the claim was handled,  the delay, the fact he 
had to take time off work and the amount of chasing he had to do for a plumber to attend. 
Hes also unhappy he wasnt told he could arrange  for his own plumber to attend, which he 
could have done earlier and limited the amount damage caused. Amtrust offered Mr F £600 
after he had set out his expectations of how he wanted to be compensated. Given  what 
happened, I think this amount is fair and reasonable, so I wont  be asking Amtrust to pay 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN50951663my final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Fs complaint against Amtrust Europe  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudman
Ref: DRN5095166