K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by a claims management  company (CMC), complains that he was mis-
sold a stocks and shares  ISA by Phoenix Life Assurance Limited,  primarily because  it carried  
too much  risk for his circumstances.
background
Mr F was recommended  an ISA Bonus Account, a with-profits  investment into which  he 
paid initial monthly  contributions  of £30 starting  September 1999, rising  to £83.33 each 
month (the maximum allowed) until he ceased  payments  in March 2003. He surrendered  the 
ISA in August  2006.
At the time of the advice Mr F was aged 21, single with no dependents and working full-time 
earning around £11,000 a year, plus overtime. It was recorded that after all expenses, 
including a car loan repayment, he had around £250 of disposable income each month.  His 
attitude to risk was recorded as cautious,  meaning that he was comfortable taking a small 
risk with his money.  
Phoenix concluded that the recommendation was suitable for Mr F, matching his attitude to 
risk and proving  to be an affordable way to meet an identified need for saving. His CMC 
disagreed, so referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reached a different conclusion to Phoenix and felt the complaint should be 
upheld. 
In brief,  he thought the investment was too inflexible for someone of Mr Fs age, whose 
circumstances were  likely to change  in the short to medium  term. The investigator noted  that 
the ISA has a minimum term of five years during which there  was a penalty for early  
surrender. The investigator suggested  Mr F should  therefore be compensated on the basis 
of our fixed-rate bond benchmark.
Phoenix didnt  agree,  so the matters  been referred  to me to review.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr Fs circumstances at the time of the sale it strikes me that he wouldve been in 
a position to embark on some sort of regular savings  programme. He was working full-time 
and had a reasonable  level of disposable income  available to him. 
But, as the investigator  highlighted, this product was quite restrictive as substantial  penalties 
were imposed on any withdrawals during the first five years   decreasing incrementally from 
50% in the first year to 10% in the fifth.  
So, while the risk level associated with a with profits investment might  on the face of it 
matched with Mr Fs cautious categorisation, I dont think the policys  lack of flexibility  was 
suited to his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN53392392He was only aged 21 and, as such, likely to experience significant changes  in circumstances 
during the five years subsequent to him starting the investment. Clearly he was able to 
reduce or stop his contributions at any time (as he did in March 2003 when the ISA had been 
in operation for about 3 years). But if hed needed  to access  the money committed  to the 
ISA in its early years  hed have been  heavily penalised. That may be why, having stopped 
the contributions  in 2003, he didnt surrender the ISA until later. If hed done  so earlier, it 
seems hed have been  looking at a 20% penalty. 
I note also that the adviser recommended maintaining an emergency  fund of around three 
months net expenditure, yet the fact find showed  that Mr F had only £700 on deposit  less 
than one months net income.
In short,  I think Mr F was probably in a position  to embark on a savings programme but not 
an investment that imposed on him the risks associated with the restrictions  of the ISA 
Bonus Account, particularly as only eight months  into it he was advised to increase his 
monthly commitment up to £83.33 - £1,000 per year, therefore tying up a significant part of 
his income. 
In fact, Im not persuaded he was really in a position  of investing at all, as the danger of 
crystallising a loss if he needed to access the money at short notice was simply too great. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr F 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Fs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Phoenix  do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Phoenix  must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Fs investment with that of the benchmark  shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Phoenix should also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
ISA Bonus  
Account 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Ref: DRN53392393actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Phoenix should use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published  by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr F wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr Fs circumstances 
and objectives.  It does not mean that Mr F would have  invested  only in a fixed rate bond. It is 
the sort of investment  return  a consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money  
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Phoenix 
Life Assurance Limited to pay compensation to Mr F as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5339239