K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that a used car she got with finance  from Black Horse Limited was mis-sold 
and of unsatisfactory quality when she got it. 
background
Ms F got this car in June  2017 with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) from Black Horse.  In 
May 2018 the car broke down and a local third-party  garage  (that Ill refer to as S) replaced  
the EGR.  In July the same  year Ms F paid to have the turbo  and some other parts replaced. 
The EGR failed  again  the following  March.
Ms F thinks the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point of supply and it was mis-sold.
This particular brand  has had issues relating to vehicle emissions. The manufacturer 
recommended a field service action  (FSA) for affected engines and Ms F thinks the 
problems she had are related  to that. She thinks she should have been told about  the 
emissions issue and the FSA before she got the car. She wants Black  Horse to take the car 
back and refund the cost of repairs as well as some  monthly repayments.   
The supplying dealer says the emissions issue was widely  publicised and staff had 
information available if customers wanted  to know more at the time. It accepts the FSA 
wasnt recorded in the cars service history but says this was carried out before the car was 
supplied to Ms F - and this kind of non-safety related service action wouldnt usually be 
recorded in the service  history.  The dealer apologised for any delay  in providing information 
about the FSA to Ms F when she did ask for this and denies the cars value was adversely 
affected by the FSA or the emissions issue. 
Black Horse  didnt uphold the complaint.  It doesnt think the car was mis-sold. Black Horse  
says it was for Ms F to show this car was probably  of unsatisfactory quality - under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  - due to the length of time she had it and the mileage she 
was able to cover. Black Horse is satisfied  the car was subject to a pre-delivery inspection 
and S checked the car (when it was repaired)  but there was nothing to suggest it was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the outset.   
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. Hes satisfied that 
the emissions problem was widely  reported  at the relevant time;
the purpose of the FSA was to remove software relating to the cars  exhaust 
emissions;
this was not safety related;
the action  was approved by a regulator;  and
the manufacturer says it should not affect  the cars performance.  
He doesnt think  the dealer was required to tell Ms F about this specifically - and hes not 
persuaded the information would have affected her decision to accept the car even  if it had 
been provided. Hes satisfied that Black  Horse spoke to S about  the repairs.  And S said the 
EGR failed  initially due to insufficient air flow through the valve. And S said it had seen this 
issue with cars that have  had the FSA and cars that havent and considered the problem 
was not unusual in a vehicle with this sort of mileage. 
On balance, hes not persuaded that the issues Ms F had here can reasonably  be attributed  
to the FSA or an inherent issue.  He doesnt  think its likely they were present when she got 
Ref: DRN59091612the car. He says they were  probably due to wear and tear - given the age of the car when  Ms 
F got it and the mileage covered after supply. 
He acknowledges  the EGR had to be replaced again  in March 2019,  but hes satisfied that S 
said this was due to the part itself malfunctioning not an inherent  issue  with the engine.  He 
notes the part was replaced under a parts  warranty, by S at no cost to Ms F. And he doesnt  
recommend the complaint should be upheld.
 
Ms F doesnt agree.  She accepts the timeline of events set out by our investigator but she 
doesnt think he really  understood  her complaint. She says (in summary): -
she had no knowledge  of the emissions  scandal and only found out about this when 
the car needed  new parts within a short space of time;
the car was supplied  without a service history  which goes against the provisions of 
the CRA;
Black  Horse should have processes in place  to ensure that customers  like her are 
not put at risk by being supplied with a car where  satisfactory quality cannot be 
proved by the service history;
the service history provided  was inaccurate as there is no mention of the FSA, she 
wasnt told that this was done and the FSA didnt show on the manufacturers print 
out that she received after supply;
the emissions scandal means  that this manufacturers diesel cars all have a 
developing fault and the manufacturer  has paid compensation for this in other 
countries where the same fix/FSA caused  detriment;
she chose this particular model  specifically not only because she liked it but also 
because it commands  a high trade-in value and shes  probably lost about  £1,500;
a car going into limp mode on a busy motorway is unsafe and dangerous so the 
dealer and Black Horse  withheld  safety  related information deliberately;  and 
she would not have accepted this car if she had been told about  these problems  and 
Black Horse failed in its duty to advise her properly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms F but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Ms F has strong feelings about what happened here. I realise  she feels  she 
was treated unfairly by Black Horse  and the dealer that supplied the car - and shes also 
unhappy with the cars  manufacturer. 
Ive spoken to Ms F and explained  that Im looking at her complaint against Black Horse  in 
this decision. That means Im considering  BHs obligations arising out of the finance 
agreement - which includes things  that were said in pre-contract discussions (under section 
56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974). But, this service isnt a regulator. I dont have the 
power to tell any business how to operate on a day to day basis.  And Im unable to hold 
Black Horse  responsible for issues Ms F had with the dealer after she got the car or her 
concerns about  the actions of the manufacturer. 
Ref: DRN59091613misrepresentation
To find there  was a misrepresentation here I would  have  to be satisfied that Ms F was told 
something untrue and she relied  on that when she decided to accept this car. 
I appreciate Ms F considers the salesman should  have discussed  emissions,  the FSA and 
the service history with her before she agreed to take the car. But I cant fairly find thats  the 
case. 
Im satisfied the emissions issue and the FSA are not safety  related. I think  the emissions  
issue was reasonably well publicised at the time and the dealer says relevant  information 
was available  if Ms F had wanted it. Ms F has confirmed  that she didnt ask about emissions 
and she also told us that she told (in an advertisement or otherwise) that the car came  with a 
full-service history. I appreciate Ms F feels that cars should be required  to come with a full-
service history when they are supplied but this isnt a requirement under the CRA - or other 
legislation. 
Im satisfied Black Horse  wasnt obliged to advise Ms F about this cars service history  (or 
ensure that it came  with one) in this situation. And, taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded theres been a misrepresentation.  I can see that Ms F is unhappy  with information 
about servicing that she received after supply as this didnt mention the FSA. I understand 
she considers this omission  was significant  but thats not something I can reasonably hold 
Black Horse  responsible for. I dont think its unusual for dealers  to carry out this sort of 
action without recording it specifically in a cars service history.  And I am not persuaded 
there was an attempt here - deliberate or otherwise - to hide the fact that the FSA had been 
undertaken pre-sale.  
satisfactory quality
Black Horse  was obliged to ensure that this car was of satisfactory quality at the point  of 
supply, under the CRA. What amounts  to satisfactory quality will vary depending on 
individual circumstances,  but its generally  considered reasonable to take the age, cost and 
mileage into account  in the case  of a used car.
This car was about six years old, had over 75,000 miles on the clock and cost about £8,500  
at the point of supply.  As such I think a reasonable person would appreciate  it was not likely  
to be of the same standard as a brand-new vehicle  as some parts  would be worn and need 
to be replaced or repaired sooner or later  and this is reflected in the lower price paid for a 
used car. 
I understand it must have been  disappointing  for Ms F when the car needed repairs. It looks 
as if the EGR, gaskets  and the exhaust sleeve were replaced  and wheels were  realigned  in 
the first half of 2018, when the car had covered nearly 85,000 miles. Then, in July 2018,  at 
just over 86,500  miles the turbo, oil feed pipe and filters were replaced. The EGR failed 
again the following March. And I understand Ms F feels these repairs were linked to the FSA 
carried out before the car was supplied. She says other drivers had similar issues  and she 
believes her car has an inherent manufacturing  problem. 
I realise this is likely to be frustrating for Ms F but I cant fairly conclude  that her car had an 
inherent fault solely on the basis  that some other drivers have reported similar sounding 
issues. So, I have considered the evidence  available in respect of her car carefully. 
Ref: DRN59091614Im satisfied Ms F had travelled nearly 10,000 miles over nearly ten months when the 
problems first arose. S carried out the relevant repairs so I think  it should have some  idea of 
what went wrong. And it wasnt unreasonable of Black Horse to contact S for information 
about that after Ms F complained. 
Black Horse  says S said the car didnt have an inherent fault but Ms F says thats  not what  S 
told her at the time.  I cant be certain what S said to Black Horse exactly. But, I have seen 
contact notes that Black Horse supplied which contain a record of this conversation.  I think  
these notes seem to be reasonably detailed and contemporaneous with events. And I find it 
reasonable to give some  weight to this evidence  in the circumstances. When  I spoke to Ms F 
I explained it was open to her to go back to S and provide further evidence if she wanted to, 
but she hasnt  provided anything  further.  
Like our investigator,  I think its more  likely  than not the problems Ms F had with this car are 
wear and tear related  - given the cars age and mileage at the point of supply and the use 
Ms F had of it after that. I dont think Ms F would have been able to drive  this car as far as 
she did if the relevant  parts had been  faulty  at the point the car was supplied. I think that 
seems to be supported  by what S told Black  Horse about the repairs.  And Im not satisfied 
there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to find this car was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the outset, in these  circumstances. 
Ive seen nothing  to show that the car has reduced in value as a result of the emissions 
problem and the FSA - or the manufacturers  response to the emissions issue  and/or any 
compensation it may have paid for this elsewhere.  
In light of these  findings  Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable to uphold this 
complaint. I explained  this to Ms F when we spoke and she told me that she wanted to 
consider obtaining additional  evidence, possibly by way of an independent  experts report. I 
thought it was reasonable to allow Ms F some more  time to do that. This took a bit longer 
than usual  due to the current  situation  and Ms F asked for some additional time which I 
agreed wasnt unreasonable, in the present circumstances. The time I set for additional  
submissions has now passed. Ms F hasnt  provided anything else and she told us recently 
that she isnt going  to appoint an expert. 
For the reasons  Ive given, I am not persuaded there are fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint and Im not going  to require Black Horse  to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5909161