K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). Theyre  unhappy that NatWest gave them  conflicting  information about their 
extra borrowing  potential that led to them taking out a loan to repay a 0% credit card debt. 
Mr and Mrs W are seeking  compensation for the costs  theyve  incurred, and to be released 
from the early repayment charge (ERC)  that theyll be liable for if they redeem the mortgage  
sooner than planned.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 27 May 2020, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint.  The following  is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
In what follows, I have summarised events  in rather less detail than theyve been presented,  
using my own words to do so, and also rounding  some of the amounts involved.  No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
Mr and Mrs W took this mortgage out in 2017;  it replaced a previous NatWest  mortgage 
when they moved  to a new part of the country. Mr and Mrs W paid an ERC when the 
previous mortgage  was redeemed. In 2018, they approached NatWest about a further  
advance for home improvements;  initial discussions indicated that £22,000 was possible.
However, problems arose in respect  of two issues; how a bonus element of Mr Ws earnings  
(£11,000) should  be treated, and the fact that he had an outstanding credit card debt of a 
little under £6,000. NatWest initially said the bonus  wouldnt  be included in the affordability 
assessment. It then changed  its mind and said the bonus could be included, only to revert  
later to its original position. 
With the bonus left out of the affordability  assessment,  the maximum borrowing was set at 
£180,000; as Mr and Mrs W already owed around  £171,000, the amount they could borrow  
fell below NatWests  minimum  threshold of £10,000 for further advances. This meant  that 
Mr and Mrs W couldnt have a further advance at all; in the meantime, Mr W had already 
repaid the credit card debt believing it to be a condition of NatWest granting the further 
advance. Mr W says he was told this by NatWests mortgage advisor.
Mr W had borrowed  the money  to clear the credit card debt from family, anticipating hed be 
able to repay it from the further advance. With that no longer possible,  he took out an 
unsecured personal  loan of £13,000 with a lender Ill call T.  After repaying the family loan, 
Mr and Mrs W used  the rest of the loan proceeds to carry out some of the home 
improvements they deemed necessary, and had intending funding from the abortive further 
advance.
Ref: DRN59172822NatWest offered Mr and Mrs W £100  compensation for misleading them  regarding  the 
bonus, but denied having advised Mr W he should clear his credit card debts before applying  
for the further  advance.
Mr and Mrs W referred the complaint  to us, arguing that due to the misleading information 
from NatWest,  theyd  been forced to replace an interest-free debt with one on which  the rate 
was a little over 3%. They said the best way forward for them  to mitigate  that was by 
re-mortgaging; as theyd  lost faith in NatWest that would mean moving to another  lender and 
paying the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs W initially claimed compensation of £500 (including the £100 already paid), a 
partial reimbursement of interest on the loan with T proportionate to the amount used to 
clear the credit card debt, and a full waiver of the ERC if they changed  lender. They 
subsequently expanded  their argument to say that the ERC was an unfair penalty, and even 
if it wasnt waived altogether, it should  be reduced by the amount of the ERC theyd already 
paid in 2017 when they moved to their current home.
Our investigator thought it likely that NatWest had given Mr W the impression he should  
clear his credit card (he couldnt be certain as the available call recordings didnt include one 
in which  Mr W says he was specifically told this). But he wasnt persuaded NatWest should 
reimburse the interest or waive the ERC.  He recommended NatWest pay Mr and Mrs W an 
extra £200  compensation,  which NatWest  agreed to do.
Mr and Mrs W asked  for the complaint to be decided by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round.
Im not dealing here with the complaint as it relates to the fairness or otherwise of the ERC, 
how it is calculated or whether or not it constitutes  a penalty. That issue has been set up in a 
separate complaint, and will be considered  in its own right, independently  from the 
circumstances of this complaint. What Ill be doing (in due course) is deciding  whether, as 
part of the redress  for the complaint about  how the further advance  application was handled, 
NatWest should  waive the ERC, in full or in part, in the event Mr and Mrs W redeem their 
current mortgage.  
Ref: DRN59172823Where a business makes  a mistake, we try where possible to put the consumer in the 
position theyd  be in if the mistake hadnt  happened. Its not always  possible to know with 
any certainty what that position  would be, and where thats the case, it falls on me to assess 
what would  most likely have happened on the balance  pf probabilities. Thats  broadly the 
same test as the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point  here is that NatWest did make a mistake in what it initially told 
Mr and Mrs W about the bonus element of Mr Ws income. However, that mistake was put 
right; the reality  was that on affordability, Mr and Mrs W would never have been able to 
borrow the money they wanted for their home improvements by way of a further  advance  on 
their mortgage. They  would always have had to come up with a different plan for funding  
their improvements.
We know what did happen;  Mr W borrowed from family to clear his credit card debt,  and then 
took out a personal loan to repay the family loan and fund some improvements. If nothing 
had gone wrong,  and NatWest had told them right from the start that they couldnt have a 
further advance, it seems  to me that Mr and Mrs W would  have had two alternatives,  one 
short term, the other longer term. They could either:
take out a personal loan (which they did); or
re-mortgage to another lender and pay the ERC.
Mr and Mrs W are on record as saying that borrowing to repay  the credit card, whilst more 
expensive in the long run, would be more manageable than repaying the credit card debt at 
the rate they were  doing.  Theyre also on record as saying the improvements they funded  
from the loan from T were  necessary. 
That being  so, its difficult for me to conclude that they wouldnt have taken out the loan with 
T (or some other similar arrangement) if NatWest had told them  right away they couldnt 
have the further  advance. It also unlikely, given what theyve said about manageability, that 
they wouldnt still have  repaid the credit card debt from the loan proceeds.  In reaching  that 
conclusion, Ive also taken into account that Mr W made a point of saying during the 
26 July 2018 phone  call that the credit cards were  going to be cleared by the end of the 
month.
In short,  it seems to me that Mr and Mrs W are in broadly the same position now that they 
would have been if nothing had gone  wrong  at NatWests end. The only real difference is 
that they might well have  paid the credit card debt off directly  from the loan from T rather 
than borrowing from family first. Viewed in that context, the issue  of what  NatWest did or 
didnt say about the credit card debt becomes a moot point.
That brings me to the ERC. Ive already found  on the balance of probabilities that, if NatWest 
had told them from the outset that no further  advance was possible,  Mr and Mrs W would 
either have  taken the loan with T or, as a longer-term alternative, re-mortgaged with another 
lender. If theyd done the latter, theyd have paid an ERC, and there  wouldnt have been  any 
sustainable argument about  whether they should  or not. After  all, no mortgage contract 
includes a term obliging  the lender to lend more money later. It follows that if they were to do 
so now, there is still no sustainable argument that the ERC would not be rightly due in 
accordance with the contract Mr and Mrs W entered into freely and of their own volition  in 
2017. 
Ref: DRN59172824On that point, the current mortgage did begin  in 2017. It was a new contract, not a 
continuation of the previous one. The ERC that Mr and Mrs W paid in 2017 flowed from a 
term in the previous contract. The ERC  they would be required to pay if they redeemed the 
current mortgage flows  from a term in the current contract. The two have nothing to do with 
each other,  and theres no basis for saying that Mr and Mrs Ws liability  for an ERC under 
the current mortgage should be reduced  by the one theyve already paid under its 
predecessor.
In summary,  all that NatWest did was raise Mr and Mrs Ws expectations to an unrealistic 
level. For that, they are due compensation for their time, trouble and upset. In my view, the 
investigators recommendation of an additional £200, making £300 in all, is about right; if no 
recommendation had been made,  I wouldnt have awarded more.
NatWest made no further comment in response  to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs W 
accepted it (albeit  with some reluctance)  but it seems our investigator misunderstood what  
theyd said in their reply and interpreted it as them withdrawing the complaint. He closed the 
case and it was never referred back to me to finalise.
Just recently, Mr and Mrs W contacted us to ask what was happening  with the complaint; by 
now, the original  investigator  had left and the case was picked up by a different one. He 
arranged for the complaint to be reopened and passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided in connection with 
this complaint. Having  done so, Ive no reason to depart  from my provisional conclusions,  so 
I dont. But I do extend my sincere  apologies  on behalf of the service  to Mr and Mrs W for 
our misinterpretation  of their response to the provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. In full and final settlement, I order  National  Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Mr and Mrs W a further £200, making £300 in all.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5917282