K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs M took out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage 
protection plan (TMPP) to protect their mortgage  repayments. This covered both of them in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree. Mr and Mrs M mainly say they didnt know that they had PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ideally Id expect  the paperwork to show whats likely  to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax  hasnt been able to provide anything 
signed by Mr and Mrs M to show how they agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont think thats 
surprising. The PPI was sold around 18 years ago. I wouldnt  expect Halifax or 
Mr and Mrs M to have  kept all the paperwork for this long. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Mrs M have said, but what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. Where theres only limited 
information I have  to look at all the available  information and decide what  I think  is most 
likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used to sell PPI around this 
time. And we already  know from looking at other cases  what the process  was when Halifax 
sold TMPP. Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt  have followed its normal sales 
process here. 
So, I think its likely that PPI was discussed and recommended for Mr and Mrs M. And whilst 
its understandable that theyve forgotten this after so long, I think  Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
been aware at the time that it was up to them  to say whether or not they wanted  to have this 
insurance cover.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Their 
home couldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  The PPI 
provided a dependable  means of ensuring  their monthly repayments were protected.  And, as 
the mortgage was taken  out when they were both in paid work, I can see why Mr and Mrs M 
mightve felt PPI was useful. 
Ref: DRN58606962On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M decided  they wanted  to have the benefits  
PPI could offer. And the accident, sickness and unemployment cover was added  to their 
mortgage at their request when they chose to buy it.
Halifax most likely  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it has to give important policy  information  in a clear  way and 
take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr and Mrs M were  both eligible  for the policy. 
PPI wouldve  protected  Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage repayments for up to 24 months per claim 
if they were off work  through accident  or sickness. This was significantly longer than they 
couldve relied on their employer to pay full sick pay. So I think this couldve been a useful  
benefit at whats  likely  to have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs M. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr M and/or Mrs M 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Although they both had secure jobs this does not mean that PPI was unsuitable for their 
needs. Even if the possibility of being made  redundant seemed unlikely, there could  be no 
guarantee that any job will remain secure indefinitely. And PPI couldve paid out, in addition  
to any redundancy  money, providing additional  financial  security in those circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M couldve made repeated  claims on the policy  so this gave them  long term 
cover for their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs M told us they had no other means  to rely on if they werent working. So I think 
PPI was a suitable recommendation  for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But looking  at everything Ive seen and been 
told about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, including Mr Ms health,  it doesnt look as if they 
wouldve had any particular difficulty making  a claim on the policy in all the circumstances 
they couldve reasonably expected. So I think it unlikely that knowing more about what  the 
policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr and Mrs M off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out when they didnt have to have it. 
There was some other insurance also available as part of the TMPP that Mr and Mrs M 
chose not to take out. And so it appears  that they did want  the type of cover that PPI offered.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  it was unaffordable for them. Taking  into account the cost and 
the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made I think the policy 
couldve provided Mr and Mrs M with a worthwhile benefit.  
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr and Mrs M wouldve  made a different decision about taking 
out PPI if Halifax had given them better information. So, even if there were failings in the way 
Halifax sold them PPI, I dont find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did 
wrong.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr and Mrs M have 
said, including the comments made  in response  to our adjudicators views.
Ref: DRN58606963Mr and Mrs M say that they wouldve claimed  on the policy  when Mr M had to stop work for 
medical reasons  if theyd  known they had it.
Not making a claim when  they mightve been able to doesnt  mean  the policy was mis-sold. 
So this doesnt  affect my overall view or change  the outcome of their complaint. But 
Mr and Mrs M may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept  and 
consider a retrospective claim. 
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. In my decision  Ive dealt with 
all the main points raised that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope  
that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5860696