K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold her 
a personal loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M took out the PPI in 2009 at the same time as arranging the loan over the internet.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander didnt  advise Mrs M to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough  information for her to be able to make  an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Looking at the information provided by Santander, Im not persuaded that Mrs M was given 
good enough information about the cost of the policy at the point that she decided to buy it.
Santander has said that the cost of the PPI couldnt  be provided when Mrs M chose to take 
PPI, as it was only calculated once the loan had been approved  and the applicable interest  
rate applied. There was an online calculator that an applicant could use which  would provide 
an indication  of the repayment  costs  with and without PPI. But an applicant  didnt have  to 
use this calculator as it wasnt a mandatory  part of the application process. So I cant safely 
say that Mrs M would have been  aware  of how much  shed  be paying for the PPI when she 
chose to take it out.
Santander says that Mrs M would  have been  sent a welcome pack  which  included  a letter 
giving more details  of the PPI, including information  on the cost. However it doesnt have a 
copy of the actual letter that it says was sent to Mrs M. Instead it has provided a sample of 
the sort of letter it says was in use at the time. But even if Mrs M did receive such  a letter,  it 
was after the point that she had already  agreed to take out the policy.
I dont think that Mrs M would have taken  out the policy if shed been given clearer  
information about the costs, because I dont think shed have considered it to be good value 
for money,  given what I know about her circumstances at the time.
Therefore Mrs M has lost out because of what Santander did wrong,  so it needs to put things 
right.
putting things right
Ref: DRN59907042Santander should put Mrs M in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. So 
Santander should:
-Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month  for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
-Santander has already paid Mrs M back some of the money  she paid for the PPI (in 
relation to the commission and profit share  it received) and it can take that off from 
the amount it owes her.
-
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs 
M compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5990704