K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a credit card. Mrs W says Marks & Spencer Financial Services  plc (M&S) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs W says she has no recollection of the sale, and so she doesnt recall agreeing to take 
out the cover. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think M&S made it clear that Mrs W 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this. I say this having seen a copy of her credit  card application which  
included a section  for PPI. In this section theres  a tick in the box to agree to the cover and 
Mrs W has signed here, separately to her signature to agree to the credit. So I think this 
reflected what she wanted at the time. 
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her. 
Mrs W says the terms and conditions of the policy  werent explained to her. And I agree the 
information M&S gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she 
chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Mrs W says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer so she had adequate means  of 
making her repayments and she didnt need the cover. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of her sick pay and for longer than this wouldve lasted  her. So these funds  couldve been  
used for other expenses  had she suddenly been  out of work.  Ive also seen that Mrs Ws sick 
pay wouldve dropped  to half after the initial 6 months. So I think the PPI wouldve been 
especially useful for her if she was off work  for more than 6 months.  
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ref: DRN55914342Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5591434