K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the quality of Great Lakes Insurance SEs repair to his mobile phone  
under his mobile phone  insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes  include  its agents.
Mr Ps father has been dealing with the complaint on his behalf. For ease Ill refer to anything 
hes told us as being said by Mr P.
background 
In January 2019, Great Lakes arranged for Mr Ps phone to be repaired under his mobile 
phone insurance  policy because it had been  accidentally damaged. The phone  had a 
cracked screen. Mr P paid an excess,  as required  by the policy  terms, and it was repaired. 
In March 2019 Mr P told Great Lakes that the phone was no longer working  after hed taken 
it into a swimming pool. Great Lakes told Mr P that there was a warranty after the repair  but 
any form of damage voided  the warranty. It said that as Mr Ps phone was water damaged, it 
would be unable to carry out any repairs under the warranty  and Mr P would be required to 
log a new claim. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  He said that he believed the damage to his phone 
was caused by Great Lakes not repairing it satisfactorily. He said that the phone  was 
supposed to be water resistant,  but water  had entered it when he went  underwater for less 
than 30 seconds.  
While the complaint was with our service, Mr Ps father observed that the back  of the phone  
was cracked because the battery had swollen  up. The phone had been  away  in a drawer  for 
a couple of months. He contacted the manufacturer who arranged  for it to be looked at by an 
engineer who reported that the device had signs of previous unauthorised repair, liquid 
damage and physical damage.
Our investigator considered all of this but didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. 
She said that she didnt  think the damage to the phone was caused by issues  with the 
repairs. She referred to information from the phones  manufacturer  which said that chlorine 
could damage  the rubber  protection and stop it being water resistant. She thought  that the 
chlorine in the pool was more likely  to have been  the cause of the damage.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2019 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer has a responsibility to act fairly, professionally 
and in accordance  with the best interest  of its customer.
Ref: DRN58499542Mr P doesnt  think Great  Lakes has acted fairly. He believes that his phone  no longer works 
because the repairs  werent done  to a satisfactory standard.  Hes unhappy  that Great Lakes 
didnt agree to fix the phone and told him to log a new claim  which wouldve meant  paying  
an additional  excess if it was successful. 
Great Lakes says the repairs were done  successfully  and the phone  was damaged because 
Mr P took it into a chlorinated swimming pool  which goes against the manufacturers 
advice. 
To decide this complaint Ive needed to think about whats more likely to have  caused  the 
phone to stop working. Was it more likely to be because the repairs werent completed to a 
satisfactory standard?  Or was the reason  more  likely to be something else  such  as Mr P 
putting the phone in chlorinated water?
Information on the manufacturers  website shows that Mr Ps type of phone has a rating that 
means complete  protection from dust ingress,  and temporary immersion  in up to 1.5 metres 
of freshwater for up to 30 minutes. It also says that water resistance  isnt the same as 
water proof -  water  resistant means  that it is resistant to rain, splashing, and accidental 
immersion. Your  device  can still be damaged by water hitting the device with force and by 
lengthy submersion. The rating  is based on fresh water. Any water  with a high salt or any 
chemical content such as chlorine can damage  your device.
Mr P has told us that the phone stopped working  after hed put it underwater in a swimming 
pool for less than 30 seconds, because he wanted  to take a selfie.  He says this was due to 
water entering the phone. He told us that if the phone had been sent to a manufacturer 
approved repairer  the phone wouldve been tested  for water resistance. Our investigator  
called the manufacturer who confirmed that when phones  are repaired by a manufacturer  
approved repairer  they are tested for water resistance as they need to leave  as factory 
standard. 
Great Lakes has told us that Mr Ps phone was repaired by its own authorised repair  service  
which uses parts approved by the manufacturer.  Its sent us a copy of its repair report  which 
says New LCD, Phone  test: Ok, Charging correct, Reset and ready  to ship.  This doesnt  
mention the phone being tested for water resistance. But in a telephone conversation with 
our investigator its told us that its repairer wouldnt get the phone  back to a water resistant 
state (like a manufacturer approved repairer might  do) it would just get it back to a working  
state. The Great Lakes  representative said that the seal would have been broken by the 
original damage so the water resistant feature  wouldve  been  lost. 
Great Lakes has sent us a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy.  This says that it 
will repair or replace your mobile  phone up to the limit of liability if it suffers  accidental 
damage. Where  only part or parts of your mobile phone have been  accidentally damaged, 
we will only repair or replace that part or parts. It goes on to say all repairs that are carried 
out to your mobile  phone  will be guaranteed  for 3 months.
The policy terms dont say that repairs will be done by a manufacturer  approved repairer. It 
refers only to its own authorised repairer. So I wouldnt uphold Mr Ps complaint just because  
a manufacturer  approved repairer doesnt  appear  to have been used. 
Ref: DRN58499543But theres nothing  in the policy terms to suggest that a phone would only be repaired to a 
working state or that its water resistant  features might be lost following a repair. Keeping  in 
mind that the manufacturer  has told us that its approved repairers would make sure a phone 
was water resistant following a repair, I think its reasonable for Mr P to have expected Great  
Lakes to ensure  its repairs were  completed  to a similar standard.
Mr P has forwarded an email from the phones manufacturer, following its inspection by one 
of the manufacturers  approved service centres. This says: Once  the engineer  inspected  the 
unit they noted that the LCD is not cracked.  Back glass is cracked,  detached from device. 
tapes not sticky; Signs of dust/debris on tape. Signs of liquid  damage  present on PBA. The 
liquid detection indicator  is activated Battery  swollen due to liquid damage and incorrect  
disassembly process, signs of tool marks present on battery  surface, missing original tapes, 
double sided  tape used. Point  of entry for the liquid appears to be the sim gate. The 
engineer has concluded  that the device has signs of previous unauthorised repair, The 
device has liquid damage. The device  has physical damage. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think that the water is likely to have entered the phone 
because of the phone wasnt disassembled correctly when it was repaired by Great Lakes. I 
accept that the manufacturer has said that chlorine can damage the phone. But on balance, I 
think the entry of water is likely to have been the main cause of damage   and this would 
have happened  regardless of whether or not the water was chlorinated. 
Mr P says the manufacturer has said the phone is beyond economic repair. And from the 
pictures Mr P has sent of his phone, it doesnt  seem  to be in a repairable state.  Mr P has 
also told us he would  like a cash settlement as hes since  replaced  his phone. So to put 
things right I intend to tell Great Lakes to pay a cash settlement equivalent to the market  
value of the phone if it hadnt  been damaged. It can take into account  the age of the phone  
but shouldnt take off any discount it might have  received if it had bought a replacement  from 
its suppliers. It also needs to add 8% per annum  simple interest from the date Mr P paid for 
his replacement phone until the date the payment is made.
I also think it would be fair to award  Mr P an additional £100 for the inconvenience of not 
being able to use his phone. 
Both parties  have said they accept the findings  Id made in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  said they accept my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
Ref: DRN58499544my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance 
SE to:
make  a cash settlement equivalent to the market value  of the phone.
add interest to the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr P 
paid for his replacement phone until the date it makes the payment.*
pay an additional £100 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience
*If Great Lakes considers  its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019..
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5849954