K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained they were mis-sold a regular premium  mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander),  trading at the 
time as National & Provincial Building Society.
Background
Mr and Mrs K bought the PPI policy in May 1994  when they arranged a mortgage. They say 
the policy wasnt properly  explained and it wasnt right for them.
The mortgage was in joint names but only Mrs K was covered by the policy. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case recommended the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs K took the PPI out when they were  at a meeting in a branch. 
Santander has confirmed  that it made a recommendation to them about taking out the cover. 
That means I will need to look at whether the policy was suitable  for them,  given their 
circumstances, and whether the information Santander gave them  was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
Ill first look out whether  Mr and Mrs K agreed  to buy the policy.  Santander sent us a copy  
of the original mortgage application. I can see theres a section on this form about PPI and 
theres a box which Mr and Mrs K would have  been  required to make a selection if they 
wanted to have this type of cover. I can see that Mrs K did this by ticking  a box to show  
she wanted to take out PPI for herself that had accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. And a separate box was marked to show that Mr K didnt want  any cover.  Mr and 
Mrs K had then both signed  the application  form.  I also think  the way this form was set out 
would have allowed  them  to see they had an option  and that they didnt have to make  a 
selection to buy PPI if they didnt want to.
After that, Santander  sent them a separate policy application to complete. Whilst Ive 
seen a copy of what this probably looked  like, unfortunately a copy  of the one that Mr 
and Mrs K completed at the time is no longer  available.
From what  Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs K were  or ought to have  been  aware  that they didnt 
have to take out the PPI if they didnt want it. I cant find anything else to suggest they 
werent given a choice and I think  from the sale paperwork  they would have seen it was their 
choice whether to take it out. 
It looks as if Mrs K would  have been  eligible  for the cover and I dont think  she would have 
been adversely  affected by any of the common exclusions we tend to see in these types  
Ref: DRN50434952of policy. She told us about  a medical condition  shed had since  around 1980 but it seems 
that this was controlled by medication  and hadnt  resulted in her taking any time off work. 
So although  this condition  may have  been  excluded under policy  terms, I dont think that 
alone would  have necessarily meant Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about this particular exclusion.  And the cost of the policy,  being £28.87 per 
month, seems comparable with others that I know  were being marketed at the time.
Mrs K hasnt told us about receiving  any benefits  from the employer she had at the time 
if she wasnt able to work. If she made a successful claim, the policy  would pay out for 
up to 24 months if she was unable to work,  or lost her job. This would be paid in 
addition to any other benefits she may have received from her employer. Mr and 
Mrs Ks mortgage was likely to have been a significant financial commitment and 
policies like this are there to help in financially difficult times. Given the implications if 
they couldnt keep up payments, I think this policy could be viewed as a sensible 
precaution.
So whilst I cant say for sure why Mr and Mrs K wanted the cover,  I can see how it 
would have been of use to them given  their circumstances. It follows that I dont think  
the recommendation was unreasonable and I dont think the policy  covering Mrs K was 
unsuitable for them.
Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs K information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could  make an informed decision about buying  the policy. I realise that 
whilst its likely they were given information  about the policy  at the time, Ive no way of 
knowing if they took  time to review this. But for the reasons Ive already given, I cant  see 
they were disadvantaged  by taking it out. 
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ks particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2021.
Ref: DRN50434953Michael Goldberg
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5043495