K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank plc gave him information about his mortgage  which  he 
relied on and which  it wont now honour.
background
Mr K and his late wife took out a mortgage with Cheltenham & Gloucester  now Lloyds  in 
2009. It was set up on a capital  and interest repayment basis over a term of 14 years, 
meaning it is due to be paid back in full in 2023.
In 2010, Mr K and his late wife asked to pay the mortgage on an interest-only  basis  to make 
things easier for them at a difficult time.  The bank  agreed.  The mortgage has continued to be 
paid on that basis  since then.
After his wife died in 2011,  Mr K says he was worried about paying  off the mortgage, so he 
asked the bank about this. He says that, in 2012 and 2013, it told him twice on the phone 
and once in person at a branch that he could  extend  the mortgage term until he is 75 years 
old, and then continue  making payments of interest-only after he is 75. 
In 2018, with five years  left until the end of the term, Mr K received a letter  from Lloyds about 
his plans to repay the mortgage.  He told Lloyds about the information it had given him in 
2012 and 2013, and asked for written  confirmation that the mortgage  would continue.  
Lloyds wouldnt provide that. It said it had no record of having told Mr K he could continue 
with the mortgage, and the staff member  he had spoken to about this at its branch no longer 
worked for it. It also said the term of Mr Ks mortgage hadnt been  extended,  but it would 
consider extending it as the term end approaches and would then review  the matter 
regularly. Lloyds accepted Mr K had received poor service after he made his complaint, so it 
paid him £200  by way of compensation. 
Mr K asked us to look into the matter. He didnt accept that Lloyds could avoid responsibility 
for what its staff had told him, and wanted firm confirmation that he can continue  making 
interest-only payments  after he is 75 years  old.
Our investigator said that Lloyds hadnt agreed to give Mr K a lifetime mortgage,  and there  is 
still time before the term ends for Mr K to consider  his position. He explained that mortgage 
regulation had changed since 2013, and he thought Lloyds had been reasonable in saying it 
would review Mr Ks situation  before deciding whether to extend  the term. 
Mr K asked for the matter to be reviewed. He said he had no reason to have questioned 
what Lloyds had told him and, had he known  it might not permit  him to continue  making  
interest-only payments,  he would have  reduced the mortgage balance over the years  instead 
of spending money  on other things.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise Mr K will 
be very disappointed, Ive come to the same  overall conclusion as the investigator.
Ref: DRN59378942Mr K has a handwritten note of what he says Lloyds told him at a branch in 2012, as well as 
his own notes of phone  calls with the bank  in 2012  and 2013. They all indicate that Lloyds 
gave him assurances. Mr K feels Lloyds  is now reneging on those assurances, so I think  its 
understandable that he considers he is being treated unfairly. 
However, I have also to bear in mind the records Lloyds has provided of its contact with Mr K 
over the years.  Lloyds says it has no record of the assurances Mr K says he was given, and 
there is nothing about them in the records I have examined from 2012 and 2013.
Lloyds records do include notes of conversations  with Mr K about making regular 
overpayments and, in April 2016, about  the mortgage still being  paid on an interest-only 
basis and Mr K having no plan in place  to repay it at the end of the term. The 2016 record  
says Mr K wanted to leave things as they were and discuss them further down the line, when 
he starts receiving his state  pension. I find nothing to indicate  that Mr K mentioned then that 
he expected to be able to continue making  interest-only payments indefinitely. And he 
received no formal confirmation  from Lloyds that the mortgage could continue.
So, while Mr K may well have received some assurances, I dont think they amounted to an 
unequivocal guarantee that Lloyds would extend  his mortgage term indefinitely.  
I take Mr Ks point that he was entitled  to rely on what Lloyds told him. I have also noted 
what he has said about having spent money on holidays, home improvements, and repaying 
other debt over the years  money which he says he would have used to reduce the 
mortgage balance  had he known Lloyds might  not let him continue  paying just interest  on the 
mortgage. But that is with the benefit of hindsight,  and I think  its difficult to conclude that he 
would necessarily have  done things differently. 
Importantly, Lloyds has not said it wont extend  Mr Ks mortgage term. So it may be that Mr 
K will be able to continue  on an interest-only  basis for a time. But circumstances can and do 
change, and I dont think it would be right or fair for me now to require Lloyds to agree to an 
indefinite term extension. That would effectively be saying that it must  grant  a lifetime 
mortgage, and it might not be in Mr Ks best interests  although  I do understand that he is 
very concerned about the future. It wouldnt, for example, be in Mr Ks best interests  to 
commit him to mortgage payments in the longer term which he may not be able to afford.
Lloyds has said it will consider a term extension following an assessment of Mr Ks 
circumstances nearer  the end of the term. I would expect it to discuss the options open to Mr 
K with him sooner  rather than later.  The regulator  has made it clear that it expects lenders to 
engage with borrowers in this situation as early  as possible.  
I would also expect Lloyds to give fair consideration to Mr Ks situation  and treat any 
proposals he makes fairly. I realise that will be of little comfort to Mr K  but I cant fairly 
require Lloyds to do any more at this stage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN59378943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5937894