K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Paymentsense Limited  has charged him an early termination  fee, 
after he cancelled his contract for the supply and use of payment terminal  services.
background
Mr H, a sole trader, says he only ever agreed to a 12 month contract with Paymentsense, via 
a verbal agreement with their sales representative.  He claims he never signed any contract. 
Paymentsense however  says that Mr H agreed to a 36 month contract. They  have provided 
our service  with a copy of the audit trail and a copy of the contract which  they say contains  
Mr Hs e-signature in it. Paymentsense claim that Mr H, as a sole trader,  is covered  by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and is only liable for 18 months of the contract. They say he can 
end the agreement by providing  1 months  notice. But they also say that Mr H still incurs an 
early termination fee of £249.60 by cancelling the contract early.
An investigator has already looked  at this case. On balance of all the evidence  he felt that it 
was likely Mr H had signed  the contract produced  by Paymentsense.  He therefore didnt 
uphold the complaint. As Mr H remains unhappy  with this matter, he has asked that the case 
be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H has advised our service  of a conversation he says he had with a sales 
representative from Paymentsense. But unfortunately there is no record  of this conversation.
I do however find the evidence  provided  by Paymentsense to be rather compelling. Ive 
carefully looked at the audit report theyve produced, which  does seem  to support the 
documents they rely upon.  I can see documents were emailed to Mr H on 31 January 2017.  
He viewed these  documents  on the same  day. The application pack appears to have been  
emailed to Mr Hs correct  email account. And there is an online verification that seems to 
show Mr H did sign the contract. 
I understand Mr H feels very strongly that he didnt sign any contract. He has provided a 
copy of his driving licence to show  what his signature looks  like, rather  than the e-signature 
in the contract  produced by Paymentsense.  However as has already been explained to Mr 
H, I wouldnt expect an e-signature to necessarily match the signature  on his driving licence. 
On balance of all the evidence, I too think it likely  Mr H did sign the 36 month  contract and 
therefore is liable for the early termination  fee of £249.60 noted by Paymentsense. 
Since our involvement in this matter, Paymentsense has agreed to waive other  arrears  on 
Mr Hs account for missed monthly payments. Overall  I think  Paymentsense has acted fairly 
and so I wont be asking  them  to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN59701372Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5970137