K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in December 1998  in connection with a mortgage with Melton Mowbray  
Building Society (MMBS). 
MMBS says that an introducer was responsible  for the sale of the mortgage  and associated 
PPI. So MMBS says that it was not responsible for the sale of the PPI.
An adjudicator has looked at the case and agreed  that MMBS wasnt  responsible for the sale 
of the PPI. Mr and Mrs K have asked for an ombudsman  to look into this so the case has 
come to me to make a decision. 
I set out in my provisional decision dated 6 February 2019 why I was minded to find that 
MMBS wasnt responsible  for the sale of the PPI. I invited both parties  to let me have any 
further comments and evidence. 
No further submissions have been provided  by either MMBS or Mr and Mrs K.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
The first thing I need  to decide is whether MMBS is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether  the sale happened as it shouldve  
done. If I dont think MMBS was responsible for the sale of the policy to 
Mr and Mrs K, then Im not going to be able to uphold  a complaint about the PPI sale 
against it.
Ive looked  at all the evidence provided  and considered what MMBS and Mr and Mrs 
K have told us about the sale. 
The mortgage was provided  by MMBS. Ive looked at the mortgage application form 
which has been completed with Mr and Mrs Ks details and signed by them  dated 8 
October 1998. Under  the Mortgage  Payment Insurance Disclaimer heading, a tick 
has been marked in the box YES  I want insurance under the Societys scheme. 
and this section  has been signed again  by Mr and Mrs K and also dated 8 October 
1998. There is also a separate Mortgage Payment Protector Application  Form 
which has been completed and signed  by Mr and Mrs K dated  8 October 1998. So 
Im satisfied  that the PPI was discussed at this time.
Within the mortgage  application form there  is a Client Verification Form headed FOR 
COMPLETION BY AN INTRODUCER ONLY. This has a declaration which  has been 
completed and signed  by the introducer. There is also another page  of the 
application form which has been completed  with the introducers details including  the 
name, company  and Mortgage Code Register of Intermediaries Registration Number. 
In light of the above, I am satisfied that the introducer was responsible for the sale of 
the mortgage and associated PPI. As MMBS didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt 
Ref: DRN51290652responsible for the introducer who did sell it), Im minded to find that MMBS wasnt 
responsible for the sale. It follows that it wasnt responsible  for carrying out the sale 
properly. So, as I dont think it has done anything wrong, Im intending not to uphold 
the complaint  against MMBS.
Mr and Mrs K have been  given details of the introducer and company which  was 
responsible for the sale of the PPI and they can complain to this company about  the 
mis-sale  if they wish to do so. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs K paid on their PPI  and 
whether MMBS treated them unfairly.  MMBS business  has told us that the 
commission for Mr and Mrs Ks PPI was less than half of what  they paid for each 
premium.  Weve  looked at how MMBS has been working  this out and based  on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ks commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats  the case, I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont think MMBS treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs K back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I know Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant  
help them on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that is that 
Melton Mowbray Building Society wasnt responsible  for the sale of the PPI and therefore I 
dont uphold this complaint against it.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5129065