K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc credited her account  with less money than she had 
paid in using a branch paying in machine.
background
On a Saturday in September 2018 Ms J used a HSBC  paying in machine to deposit cash 
because the bank didnt offer a Saturday counter service.  She said she paid in a total of 
£270  13 bags of £2 coins and £10 wrapped  in cling film. She was assisted in the process 
by two HSBC staff.
Some days later she noticed that her account  had only been credited with £170 and so she 
complained to HSBC.  HSBC said it had already sent her a letter  about the error she had 
apparently made when  using the paying in machine.
HSBC then conducted an investigation  that included viewing contemporaneous CCTV 
footage and it took statements from the staff involved. And having  done so it said it was 
satisfied that Ms J had paid in less than she thought she had and that the bank had credited  
her account  correctly.
Ms J was adamant  that she had paid in £270  and so referred  her complaint to us.
Our investigator asked  HSBC for a copy of the CCTV recording, but the bank  said that this 
was no longer available because of the passage of time. And so, having considered the 
available evidence, and whilst not discounting  Ms Js testimony, our investigators view was 
that she couldnt confidently conclude that Ms J had in fact deposited £270  rather than the 
£170 claimed by HSBC.
Ms J was unhappy with this view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She re-iterated 
points she had made previously about the number of times she had counted  the bags of 
coins and she was certain that there  were 13, not the eight HSBC said it had counted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and wider circumstances.
Ms J says she had been saving the £2 coins as spending money  for a forthcoming holiday, 
which she had also done the previous year. She counted  the bags three times before taking 
them to HSBC and has no doubt  that she had saved £270  - much the same sum as in the 
previous year.
Although Ms J was assisted with the deposit process by two members  of staff,  she has said 
that they didnt  count  the money.  She assured them she had counted it a number of times 
herself and so one of the staff made a note of that total on the banks deposit bag before 
putting the money in the machine. Ms J received  a receipt for the amount she had told staff 
she was depositing.
Ref: DRN52184542Ms J has said that during  HSBCs investigation  of what  had happened  she was told that 
customers sometimes did make mistakes  when depositing cash believing  it to be more than 
it actually was. Ms J says that this supports her view that staff were colluding in a clever 
scam.
The accusation Ms J makes is a very serious  one, and I would need strong evidence to 
make findings along  the lines she has suggested. 
HSBC has said that in line with its usual practice, and following Ms Js deposit, the machine 
was then not opened until Monday morning in a secure area.  The bank has said that two 
staff jointly  performed that process  and that their actions were  recorded on CCTV. Although 
HSBC no longer has that recording  it viewed  it at the time of Ms Js complaint. It has said 
that Ms Js deposit bag contained only eight bags of coins  plus the coins in cling film. All of 
the staff involved   both on the day of the deposit  and those who subsequently emptied the 
machine  have  given  statements.  Only the staff emptying the machine actually counted  the 
individual bags  and they have confirmed  there  were only eight.
Against this Ms J is confident there were 13 and she has given her reasons why. 
As I wasnt there  I cannot know exactly what happened and I must  therefore make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. And whilst I accept that it is possible that there was, 
as Ms J has alleged, a scam being perpetrated  here, it would have had to involve so many 
staff  including those carrying out the investigation and viewing the CCTV  that it seems  to 
me to be an extremely unlikely explanation of what happened.  Other  than Ms Js assertion 
that she deposited the sum she said she did, and I accept that she believes that she did, 
there is no additional corroborating evidence. And Im afraid  that in the absence of such  
evidence, I cannot  reasonably conclude  that HSBC staff have acted dishonestly or that they 
have made  an error.
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Ms J, but I do not uphold her complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5218454