K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs K took out a credit card in 2000. Mrs K is complaining about  the PPI policy  sold to her in 
connection with this credit card.
The policy cost 70p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance on her credit card. The 
policy wouldve paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance  if Mrs K was unable to work  
due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to suggest that Mrs K was given the opportunity during the sale to actively 
confirm that she wanted  to take the policy out.
Barclays disagreed.  So the complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Barclays had to make sure Mrs K understood she had a choice in taking PPI and that she 
consented to having it added to her account.
PPI wasnt sold to Mrs K when she applied for her credit card. The policy was sold to her 
later during  a phone call a couple of weeks after she applied for her credit card.
Barclays cant tell us anything about  this call. It doesnt have a call transcript or recording 
and it cant provide a script that mightve  been  in use at the time. So I dont know  what  was 
said to Mrs K about the PPI and whether it was presented as optional.  
Barclays say as Mrs K was already in receipt  of her card when the PPI was sold to her she 
wouldve been aware that her credit application had been approved, so she wouldve 
understood she didnt need  PPI to have  the credit card.
Its not clear if the policy was sold during  an activation call or in a separate  phone call 
afterwards. And Barclays havent  been  able to supply credit card statements from Mrs Ks 
account when  the PPI was first added, so I cant tell if Mrs K used the card before the PPI 
was sold. Had Barclays been able to do this I may have been  able to conclude that she 
wouldve known she didnt  have to have the policy  to get the credit.
Barclays say that if Mrs K didnt want the policy she couldve cancelled it at any time. But I 
dont think that telling  someone  they have the right to cancel the policy  shows  me that Mrs K 
agreed to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN56346062So based  on the information  Ive seen, I cant say its more  likely Mrs K agreed to take the 
policy and it follows that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
I note what Barclays has said about the policy being  suitable for Mrs K, but as Im upholding 
her complaint for the reason Ive stated  I dont need to consider this further.
what Barclays should do to put things  right
Barclays should put Mrs K in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mrs K would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs K owes and what  she 
would have owed.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mrs K would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs K paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs K paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs K wouldve  owed Barclays something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.Barclays should tell Mrs K what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
direct it pay Mrs K the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5634606