K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the way Aviva  Health UK Limited has dealt with his claim. All 
references to Aviva  include any appointed representatives acting on its behalf.
background
Mr W has private medical insurance through his employers group scheme. He had a 
problem with his back and asked Aviva to arrange treatment. 
Aviva arranged for Mr W to be seen by a specialist at a hospital  local to him. He says it failed 
to fax the referral  through properly and he had to chase over the course  of two days before 
the hospital received the referral. 
Following treatment at the hospital, the specialist referred Mr W for physiotherapy treatment. 
Mr W asked Aviva if he could have his physiotherapy at the same  hospital as his medical  
records and MRI scan were held there but Aviva  explained  he would have to see a 
physiotherapist on Avivas  network  instead. 
Mr W asked Aviva to obtain a copy of his medical  notes and MRI scan  from the hospital  to 
send to the physiotherapist before his treatment. But Aviva failed to do so despite  promising  
that it would  and so Mr W drove  to and from the hospital to obtain  the records  himself. He 
also spent hours on the telephone and would like Aviva to reimburse him for his time and 
trouble. 
Aviva looked  into Mr Ws complaint and agreed  that it could have handled things better  and 
paid him £200  compensation.  But Mr W said this wasnt enough  as it hadnt properly 
accounted for his time spent in attempting  to resolve  the issues. Aviva didnt agree that any 
further compensation was due and so Mr W referred his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Aviva  had offered enough  
compensation. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Ws 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
the hospital referral
Ive listened to the phone calls which Mr W had with Aviva in September  2018  over the 
course of two days. Aviva told Mr W that it had faxed a referral to the Outpatients  
department at the hospital as well as to the specialists medical secretary.  Mr W said he had 
spoken to the hospital  and it hadnt received the referral. 
Mr W asked Aviva to confirm which fax number it had used, and it confirmed the correct  
number. I havent  seen anything to suggest that the fax wasnt sent. Although Mr W called 
Aviva a number of times, it confirmed it had definitely sent the fax and it was just a matter of 
waiting. I cant comment on when the hospital  had actually received it, but it confirmed that it 
had. Although I accept  Mr W called Aviva a number of times,  it has paid him compensation 
Ref: DRN59450412to take any inconvenience into account.  And so I dont  think Aviva needs  to do anything 
more here.   
the medical records and MRI scan
Mr W says he spent a lot of time chasing  Aviva and had to arrange to obtain his medical 
notes himself. He says he was promised that his medical notes  would be sent to the 
physiotherapist prior to his appointment but this didnt happen. All these discussions took 
place over the telephone  and I can confirm I have listened to all of the phone calls provided. 
Mr W spoke to Aviva in November 2018  as the specialist had recommended physiotherapy 
treatment. Mr W wanted  to attend the same hospital  he had previously attended  but Aviva 
told him that he would  have to attend  a facility recognised by it, on its network.  Mr W wasnt 
happy with this but Aviva explained that this was contained within the terms and conditions.  
Avivas terms  and conditions say: Members are covered for eligible treatmentcarried out 
at a hospital on the members list, a facility recognised by us as part of a network or an NHS 
hospital recognised by us to provide the type of treatment undertaken.
Although I appreciate why Mr W wanted treatment at the hospital he had attended  
previously, Avivas policy is clear that the physiotherapist must be recognised by them. Mr W 
said the treating  physiotherapist  would  need  access to his medical  records and digital MRI 
scan which were all held at the hospital he had attended earlier. Aviva  suggested that Mr W 
could take copies of his medical information  with him to the appointment but Mr W wanted 
Aviva to request  this information and send  it to the physiotherapist  on his behalf. Aviva  
confirmed it would make  the request but couldnt guarantee that the hospital  would release 
his notes and scans - and said it would be better for Mr W to obtain this information  himself. 
And so although  Aviva  had agreed  to try to obtain the information the physiotherapist would 
need to see, it also told Mr W that he should obtain  the information himself.  
At no point  did Aviva  promise that it could definitely obtain the records   in addition,  I have 
listened to a further conversation between Mr W and the centre  where he would  be receiving 
his treatment. He was told it wouldnt accept any medical records  or medical information as it 
wouldnt be able to store  it securely  it advised  Mr W he would have to bring  his records 
with him. I therefore dont  think any loss has been caused to Mr W. Im satisfied  that Aviva 
did request his records and also warned Mr W that it may not be able to obtain them.  
When Mr W complained,  Aviva offered  to pay him £200 compensation for any inconvenience 
caused to him as a result  of having  to chase and call. I think  this is fair and I dont think its 
reasonable to ask Aviva to do anything further in the circumstances as it did what it said it 
would do. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed  with my decision - its unfortunate that 
Mr Ws choice  of hospital wasnt  within Avivas  network which  resulted in the additional  work  
required in obtaining  his records. But this sort of condition isnt unusual  in a policy  such as 
this. And so I dont  think Aviva needs  to do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Ref: DRN59450413Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5945041