K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Esure Insurance Limited declined  a theft claim under their 
contents policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs T had contents insurance  with Esure and made a claim when items were  stolen  
from their car while it was parked outside their home. They  told Esure  Mr T had returned 
from work and left his bag in the boot.  The next morning, as they left to take their son to 
school, they saw the car door was partially  open. On checking  the boot, they discovered 
some items were  missing  from the bag that had been left in there overnight.  They  claimed 
for prescription glasses,  a rucksack,  a pair of thermal gloves, some leather gloves, a leather 
document holder and a fleece jacket,  explaining  that some of the stolen items had been  
found nearby,  but some  werent recovered.
Mr and Mrs T told Esure theyd reported the theft to police. They  explained there were no 
signs of forced entry,  but Mr T was sure hed locked the car. They  said that, as the car had 
keyless entry, they believed the thieves had gained entry using a specialist device. They  
also said the police gave them a faraday pouch to block electromagnetic fields, and they 
believe this demonstrated  the police believed this was how the thieves had gained entry.
Esure declined the claim.  It said the theft was excluded  under the policy because it couldnt  
be sure the boot had been locked and there was no evidence of forced  and violent entry. But 
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. They believe their 
theory that the car was broken into using  technology to gain entry is supported  by the fact 
that the cars  electrics have been playing up ever since.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He accepted thered been a theft and 
therefore Mr and Mrs T had shown they had a valid claim, so it was for Esure  to show the 
exclusion applied. He acknowledged there  was no police  report,  but he said he had no 
reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ts account. And the fact theyd been given a pouch by the 
police indicated they accepted their account  of how the thieves had likely gained entry. He 
commented its now more  common for thieves to gain entry to cars using specialist devices 
and that in the circumstances  he didnt know what else Mr and Mrs T could  do to support 
their account.
Esures asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. Its said its decision not 
to apply the exclusion isnt based  on a technicality and that the policy requires the car to be 
broken into using force or violence. It doesnt  believe our investigator has properly 
considered the possibility  that the car had been left unlocked and theres  no evidence it was 
broken into using a specialist  device.  Its also made  the point  that such devices can be used 
to start cars and wouldnt  be used by an opportunist thief who only intended to steal  
contents. Finally, its questioned whether  Mr and Mrs T have provided evidence that they 
were given a pouch by the police.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN50238252The policy excludes  cover  for theft or attempted  theft from road vehicles, unless  the item(s)  
was / were contained in a locked boot..of  a locked vehicle which  was broken  into using 
force and violence.
Im satisfied that the exclusion is clear and that it was brought to Mr and Mrs Ts attention in 
the policy documents. Im also satisfied that a theft did happen and that items were stolen, 
that the car is a keyless car and that there were no signs  of forced  entry or damage to the 
car.
Esures acknowledged that theres  been  an increase in car thefts  involving keyless entry. But 
its said our investigator has failed to consider the possibility  that Mr T might have left the car 
unlocked. Its argued  that theres no evidence either way  the thieves could have gained 
entry by using a specialist device, but, equally, the car mightve been left unlocked.  
The problem with this argument is that as our investigator correctly explained, once the 
policyholder has shown an insured event has occurred, its for the insurer  to show an 
exclusion applies. 
Theres no dispute that there was a theft and, while I accept  its possible  Mr T did leave the 
car unlocked, hes said from the outset  that he didnt and Im satisfied that theyve given  a 
reasonable and consistent explanation  about  what happened. Ive no reason  to suspect  
Mr and Mrs Ts account isnt true and I agree with our investigator that they cant  reasonably 
be expected to produce more evidence that Mr T locked  the car or about how the thieves 
gained entry. The incident was reported  to the police and the police havent indicated  any 
suspicions about it. And even though Mr and Mrs T havent provided any evidence  that the 
police did give them a pouch to protect them from further similar incidents,  this would be 
easy enough to verify  and, taking into account  all the other facts, I dont think its necessary.
Insurers are entitled to include exclusions to protect  them if a policyholder  hasnt left their 
vehicle secure and its right that this exclusion isnt a technicality. I accept there doesnt 
appear to be any way to prove what actually happened, but, as Ive said above, its for Esure 
to show that the car was left unlocked  and Im not satisfied that it has. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy didnt provide cover for theft unless  the car was left locked and 
secured, and had been broken into using force and violence. The policy  doesnt  define force  
and violence,  but I think that what the policy meant was gaining entry to a vehicle without  the 
owners permission,  and that could potentially occur without causing damage. Generally  we 
take the view that force  can be any force including turning a key in a lock, or lifting a handle.  
So this could  include the use of a specialist device of the sort Mr and Mrs T believe was 
used to gain entry to their car. Were  aware  now that its possible, and that its become more 
common for thieves to access cars with skeleton  keys or specialist devices without causing 
damage. Therefore Im satisfied that, if the car was broken into using a specialist device, that 
would constitute  force and violence for the purposes of the exclusion.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that Esures shown that the exclusion applies and so I dont think 
its decision to decline the claim is fair or reasonable.  Therefore I think it should deal with  
Mr and Mrs Ts claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Esure Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN50238253consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim in line with the policys  remaining terms and 
conditions. 
add interest to any cash settlement at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date of 
claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5023825