K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (T/A Smile) delayed an online transfer he 
tried to make to an account he held elsewhere. Hes also unhappy about  the way he was 
notified that his transfer had been  delayed  and how his concerns  about that transfer  were  
dealt with. 
 
background
At around 9 pm on 24 April 2019  Mr J attempted to transfer £1000 online from his Smile  
account to an account in his name,  which he held with another bank.  Ill refer to this bank  
within this decision as B.
Mr J said he had transferred money  from his Smile  account to B regularly over the last 25 
years and for higher amounts than the transfer he had tried to make on 24 April.  But while 
£1000 left his Smile  account immediately it failed to show in the account  he held with B. 
Mr J said he couldnt contact Smile to query this as its telephone lines had closed at 8 pm. 
He said the next he heard about his money  was when  he received a voicemail  from Smile at 
9 am the following  day, which told him that his payment  had been  held pending  a fraud  
check. Mr J said he also received a text message,  which  asked him to confirm if he had 
made the transfer in question. He said he responded  affirmatively to this message and 
received a further text just before 10 am explaining that his transfer  would be processed.  
Mr J wasnt happy that his money hadnt  been  transferred immediately on 24 April. He said 
he had needed  that money  for an investment, which he had missed  out on. He wasnt  happy 
he hadnt been told sooner that his transfer  had been delayed and he thought Smile 
shouldve told him the reason why his transfer  had attracted  a fraud  check. 
Mr J was unhappy he hadnt been able to reach  Smile after trying  to make his transfer due to 
its phone  lines being closed at that time.  And he thought Smile should  have returned his 
money to his account between the time he tried to make  his transfer and the time he 
confirmed that the transfer had been  genuine. He wanted assurances that future  payments 
wouldnt be held for a fraud check.  And he wasnt happy with how Smile had dealt with his 
concerns about  his transfer or how hed been  spoken to. He said he had incurred six hours 
of his time and had had to discuss what happened  with three  different managers.  
After Smile investigated his complaint  it accepted  that one of the managers Mr J had spoken 
with on 25 April could have shown  more empathy. To recognise this Smile  credited Mr Js 
account with £50 by way of an apology. But other  than this, Smile didnt uphold Mr Js 
complaint because it said his payment had been  subject  to an automated fraud check  and 
that it hadnt made an error in delaying  his payment on this basis.  It also said, as Mr J had 
made his transfer  outside of its business  hours,  it had notified  Mr J as soon  as it could the 
next business day. And it said his payment had credited  his account with B within  the 
timescale it sets for online transfers. So it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.
But Mr J wasnt  satisfied with Smiles response. So he brought  his complaint  to us. Our 
adjudicator looked into it and, while they empathised with Mr J, they didnt uphold it. They 
thought Smile had dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly  and they didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. But Mr J didnt  agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN53437812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that when Smile delayed the transfer  Mr J attempted  to make it was an 
inconvenient and frustrating experience  especially given what hes told our service about 
losing out on an investment  opportunity.  But, having thought about everything he and Smile 
have said here, Ive reached  the same overall  conclusion as the adjudicator that Smile hasnt 
made a mistake and has acted fairly.  I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr J 
so Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Where a bank suspects fraud it must take positive action on a 
customers behalf. Preventing fraud  is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To 
do so, a bank  may delay  a transfer  if it thinks it may be fraudulent or that someone has 
attempted to make  it without the account holders permission.
Mr J disputes that Smile needed to subject this transfer to a security check  because  he said 
he was transferring funds  to an account in his name  with B. He said hes made many 
transfers over the years  to B including transfers for higher amounts. But while  Mr J may have 
been able to transfer money successfully on other occasions, the issue  here is his inability to 
make the specific transfer in April 2019, which is the subject of this complaint.
This transfer  was delayed  by Smiles automated  fraud prevention  system. This system  
checks all transactions and flagged Mr Js transfer as a potentially fraudulent transaction.  
So, further checks were  needed to confirm  whether the transfer was genuine.  Smile  tells 
customers about this in broad terms because it says that while online payments will be sent 
immediately they may be subject to further  checks, which is what happened here.
Mr J has told our service  that he understands that banks might need  to check whether 
transfers are fraudulent.  But he wants Smile  to tell him why his payment attracted a fraud  
check. I see that Smile  has declined to share this as thats commercially sensitive 
information. I can understand  that Mr J feels this is unfair. But Smile is under no obligation to 
tell Mr J its reasons, as much as he wants to know. Our service  cant tell it to share  this 
information with him and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Smile to elaborate  any further.
What I can tell Mr J though is that, based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Smile 
had legitimate reason to investigate his transfer before it could be released.  In delaying Mr 
Js payment Smile was trying to safeguard his account from potential fraud and unauthorised  
access. The action  it took was part of its strategy to reduce fraud. And I cant  fairly criticise 
any bank for having  processes in place  to check the authenticity  of online transfers. This is 
just as much  for a Mr Js protection  as it is for Smiles. It follows  that I cant  fairly conclude  
that Smile  made an error when it delayed Mr Js transfer for fraud checks.
Mr J also thinks  Smile  should have re-credited his funds back to his account while  fraud 
checks on his transfer were pending.  Hes upset that his money was inaccessible  to him 
while that process was ongoing. But Smile  says Mr Js payment was taken from the 
available balance in his account and then held in a queue until he could confirm it wasnt a 
fraudulent transfer.  It says it has to deduct the amount from a customers account  because if 
it didnt the customer  may think the payment hadn't been made and then duplicate it. I think  
Ref: DRN53437813Smiles explanation here is reasonable. It also explains  why Mr J saw his balance  reduce 
even though his funds  hadnt made  their way to his account with B. 
Part of Mr Js complaint concerned the fact that Smile didnt notify him that his transfer had 
been unsuccessful  immediately. So, in considering whether the time it took Smile to 
communicate this was fair and reasonable Ive thought about the measures it took here.  
Unfortunately, as Mr J attempted to make  his online transfer outside of Smiles  usual 
business hours, it wasnt able to contact him until the following business day when it opened. 
I understand that Mr J isnt happy with that Smiles telephone lines were closed when he 
made his transfer  but Mr J ought  to have  known this. And Smile is entitled to make  
commercial decisions about  its opening  hours, which isnt something our business will 
interfere with or comment on.
Its clear that Mr J wouldve  liked to have been told that his payment was being held for a 
fraud check sooner.  But Smile says when  it needs  to contact a customer to query a payment 
itll do so by no later than by close of business  the next working day. I can see that Smile 
contacted Mr J to query the authenticity of his transfer at 9 am on 25 April. And about an 
hour later it released his payment.  With that in mind,  I dont think  Smiles response time here 
was unreasonable. Im satisfied that Smile responded as promptly as it could in the 
circumstances. And it was able to credit Mr Js account with B within the timescales it sets 
for online transfers. Given its proactive response here,  I also think if Mr J had attempted  to 
make his transfer earlier on 24 April while Smile  had been open it would have most likely 
contacted him the same  day to query his payment. 
Mr J wants an assurance  from Smile that it wont  subject any further  payments he makes 
from his account  to a fraud check. But Smiles duty to safeguard  its customers accounts and 
be vigilant against  fraud means it cant offer that guarantee. 
I recognise that Mr J wasnt happy  about  they way in which his concerns about his delayed 
transfer were dealt with by Smile. And I can see that its accepted  that the customer service 
he experienced during his telephone call with it on 25 April, in particular, couldve been  
better. Its already compensated him £50 by way of apology,  which  I think  fairly reflects the 
trouble and upset  Mr J experienced during that call. So, I wont be asking Smile to pay 
anything further.  
I understand Mr J feels very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I think that Smile  acted  fairly  and reasonably.  It follows  that Im not 
going to be asking it to do anything.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5343781