K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the charges  applied  by PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) when she 
returned her car at the end of a hire purchase agreement.
background
In June 2016 Miss H acquired a new car via a two year hire purchase  agreement with PSA. 
At the end of the agreement Miss H decided to return  the car.
In accordance with the hire purchase  agreement PSA arranged for the car to be inspected 
by a separate company  and a report prepared about  its condition. Miss H was present at the 
inspection but refused  to sign the report as she disagreed with its findings.
The inspection recorded various issues with the car. Parts of the car had been  resprayed 
and these were considered to be both a poor colour  match and in respect of the sill a poor 
quality job. There were  also issues with the cars tyres and alloys. The inspection report  said 
that the total cost of the damage to the car was £1558.94.
Miss H disagreed with the damage that had been  recorded. She said she accepted  that 
three of the alloys required  polishing but said that the respray had been a match, that the 
tyres wouldve passed an MOT and a that hole in the carpet  of the car was tiny. She 
complained to PSA about the charges.
PSA reviewed the report and said that as a gesture of goodwill it would remove the charge 
for the state of the carpet and a further  £350  leaving an outstanding amount of £881 for 
Miss H to pay.
Miss H disagreed that there was any mismatching paint  and said the tyres were of a suitable 
standard. She said she would only pay for the damage to the alloys.  She complained  to this 
service. While Miss Hs complaint was being investigated PSA agreed  to reduce the 
outstanding bill by £213 as further gesture of goodwill. It said it required Miss H to pay the 
outstanding £668. Miss H disagreed she owed  that amount.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Miss Hs complaint should  be upheld. He said hed 
looked at the report  and photos of the car together with the agreements terms and 
conditions. He had also referred to the British Vehicle  Renting  and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guideline. This guideline sets the industry standard of what is considered to be 
fair wear and tear on a car when its returned at the end of its lease  or finance agreement.
The investigator said that although the front tyres  had sufficient tread to pass  an MOT they 
also had damage  that wasnt considered fair wear and tear under  the BVRLA guideline. He 
also said that the photos of the car showed  there was a difference in the colour so the paint 
was mismatched on the bumper and sill. He thought  the charges of £668  for the damage to 
the tyres,  alloys, bumper  and sill was fair and reasonable.
Miss H disagreed she said that the paint was perfect and disputed the damage to the tyres 
and one of the alloys.   As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53210442Ive seen copies  of the inspection report and photographs and of the hire purchase 
agreement together  with its terms and conditions. I have also referred to the BVRLA  
guideline.
Under the agreement  Miss H was responsible for returning the car in a good condition. She 
was also liable for the costs of any repairs that were needed to put the car into a good 
condition following  its return. Miss H says that the car was in a good condition  save  for the 
alloys that required a polish though she disputes all four alloys  required this. PSA however 
disagrees and relies on the inspection report.
It isnt unusual for parties to disagree over the condition of a car in these circumstances. And 
so its fair and reasonable to refer to the BVRLA guideline on what  constitutes fair wear  and 
tear. These guidelines set the industry standard and ensure a consistent approach.
Looking first at the front tyres, while I appreciate that the tread  may be sufficient to pass an 
MOT, there is other damage recorded  in the report and shown in the photos. The photo of 
the front right tyre clearly  shows  uneven tread  and the photo  of the left front tyre clearly 
shows a cut over 25mm in length.  The BVRLA guidelines say There  should  be no damage 
to side walls and tread.  Evidence of uneven wear due to under or over inflation is not 
acceptable.  Looking at the evidence Im satisfied  the damage to the two front tyres was 
beyond fair wear and tyre and its reasonable for PSA to charge Miss H £188 in total for the 
necessary repairs.
Miss H disagrees that all the alloys showed  damage  beyond fair wear  and tear. However 
looking at each of the photos  of the alloys  I can see that there are scuffs and rim damage 
over 100mm  on each  of them. The BVRLA  guideline  says that scuffs up to 50mm  on the 
total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable . As the damage 
recorded is greater  on each of the four alloys Im satisfied that its reasonable for PSA to 
charge Miss H £260 in total for the repairs.
I appreciate Miss H feels that the respray left the cars paintwork perfect  but I dont  think 
this is supported by the report and photos.  The photos show that the paint  on the sill and 
rear bumper is mismatched. It also shows that the paint  on the sill is of a poor quality. I 
havent seen any evidence that the re-spray was carried out by a manufacturers approved 
repairer or that there  was a warranty provided for this work.  I think  its reasonable for PSA to 
charge Miss H a total of £220 in total for the repairs that are required to remedy  this damage. 
A poor paint job on a car will affect its re-sale value.
So looking  at the evidence Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.  I think  its fair and 
reasonable for PSA to charge Miss H a total of £668  for the damage to the returned car.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Ref: DRN53210443Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5321044