K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs Y say Principality Building Society (PBS) mis-sold them  the policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs Y took out PPI to cover a mortgage  in 2004 to cover  Mr Y if he was unable  to 
work because of illness, injury or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Y disagree,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ys case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why
Mr and Mrs Y say they did not agree  to take PPI and PBS added it without their permission. 
They add that when they originally took their mortgage, they recall declining cover.  PBS says 
they applied for the PPI separately  in January 2004  and wouldve completed  a separate  
application form agreeing to it, although  given the time thats passed; they no longer retain  a 
copy. 
The PPI was sold a long time ago now so there is limited information available from the time 
of sale  thats not unreasonable given the PPI was sold some 15 years ago. But where  I 
have limited information about the sale, I have to decide  what I think  is likely to have 
happened given  the evidence I do have  and the wider circumstances. 
I want to re-assure Mr and Mrs Y that I do understand their concerns over the lack of 
documentation available but we dont expect  businesses to keep all documentation  
indefinitely. While it is more helpful to see everything  customers and businesses have sent 
to each other over the years  that rarely happens  on cases that involve issues that 
happened over 15 years ago. The ombudsman service works on a fair and reasonable basis  
and we will consider  any available evidence to help us decide the case
PBS has sent in a sample application form it was using to sell PPI around the time that 
Mr and Mrs Y bought their PPI, and I can see that on that form, customers had to sign to 
agree to take the PPI. I also note their PPI premiums were collected via a direct debit, and 
so they wouldve had to have signed  a direct debit  mandate  to allow these payments to be 
taken. These  payments  wouldve  been collected until 2009 when the policy  was cancelled 
due to non-payment. 
I also understand their mortgage completed  in September 2003 and they didnt take PPI until 
January 2004.  As they already had the mortgage when they took PPI I think they wouldve 
known the policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN57501352Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ys recollection of events, but I have to bear in mind, 
this policy  was bought many  years ago and even  the best of memories can fade over that 
time frame. I dont think itd be fair to uphold a complaint based  solely on limited recollection 
from 15 years ago.
So, overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely  PBS made it clear the PPI 
was optional and that Mr and Mrs Y agreed to take it. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think PBS either assessed their circumstances or 
gave them a tailored recommendation. So I dont think it advised Mr and Mrs Y to take PPI. 
This means  it didnt  have  to check if the PPI was right for them but it did have to make sure 
Mr and Mrs Y got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information PBS gave Mr and Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Mr Y (the policy holder) was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so the PPI would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Given that Mr and Mrs Y paid for the PPI premiums via direct  debit, I think its likely they 
would have understood how much  the policy cost.  
I understand Mr and Mrs Y were  both employed  so they had employee benefits like sick pay. 
They also had critical illness cover (CIC) and death  in service through  their employers. 
Mr and Mrs Y also say they had other means such as shares and savings they couldve 
used to help them make their repayments  if they had found themselves  out of work 
unexpectedly.
But as explained  above, I think they knew how much the PPI cost and it was really  up to 
them to decide  if the PPI was right for them, bearing in mind  the other ways they had to 
make their repayments if they werent  working. And in any event, the PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of their sick pay leaving their other means available for them  to use on other  essential  
expenditure. Death  in service and CIC dont provide the same  type of cover as PPI. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means PBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y.
But PBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y because:  
PBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs Y about that. Because PBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs Y, that was unfair. 
To put that right, PBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN57501353what the business needs  to do
PBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs Y any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  PBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs Y 
any extra  interest they paid because of that.
PBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs Y the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. PBS should  
also pay Mr and Mrs Y 8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs Y can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Principality Building Society  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y.
But Principality Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr and Mrs Y any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750135