K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to them  alongside  a mortgage  in 2001. 
I know that when  Mr and Mrs P took their mortgage out, Lloyds was trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester. But I will refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision as it is 
responsible for complaints like this about  Cheltenham & Gloucester.  
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with 
that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I havent  upheld  their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
I can see that PPI was sold during a meeting between the parties.  I cant  know what  was 
said during that meeting. So to help me decide  whats likely to have happened,  Ive looked  at 
what Mr and Mrs P remember  about  it. And Ive also considered the paperwork thats  
available from the time.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr and Mrs P would have  known this cover was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out. Mr and Mrs P told us they thought  theyd just 
been told to sign a document and because they had faith in Lloyds,  they did so. 
I dont doubt that what  Mr and Mrs P told us is what they honestly remember  about the sale. 
But Ive seen a copy of the application  form that was completed at the time. I can see that 
there were two equally prominent  boxes  one to select if they wanted  PPI and another  to 
select if they didnt.  The box to add cover has been  ticked. 
Ive also been  given a copy of the mortgage  offer that was produced at the time. 
Mr and Mrs P told us that this was their first mortgage. As the mortgage offer is an important 
document and they hadnt taken  a mortgage out before, I think  theyd have taken their time 
to read this through. And it says on that offer letter  that they werent  required to take any 
insurance out with Lloyds.  So on balance,  I think Mr and Mrs P probably knew this policy  
was optional. 
As the PPI was sold during a meeting, I think Lloyds probably advised  Mr and Mrs P to buy 
it. So it had to make sure the cover was suitable for their needs. To help me decide whether  
it was suitable,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the policy. And Ive also thought  
about what Mr and Mrs P told us about their personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that the policy was set up to cover 70% of the mortgage repayments if Mr P was 
unable to work and 30% if Mrs P couldnt  work.  The cover would have  lasted for up to 12 
Ref: DRN52377732months for each claim. I think the way the PPI was split probably  reflects their income  at that 
time. 
Mr and Mrs P told us they were in good health, so I dont think theyd have been affected by 
any of the policys  exclusions about  medical conditions.  And I havent  seen  anything  unusual 
about their circumstances that would have stopped them from making a successful claim if 
they needed to. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P had some sick pay from their respective employers. But with 
PPI, they could have  used  that pay on their other essential expenditure at what  would have  
no doubt been a very stressful time if one of them was out of work. Its important for me to 
note that this mortgage was secured on their home and so the consequences  of them  falling 
behind with their repayments  were  significant. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs P told us they had some other insurance policies running at the 
same time as the PPI. But I dont think those policies covered the same  eventualities as the 
PPI. I know  Mr and Mrs P told us strongly that they would have been able to receive  help 
from their family if they ran into financial trouble. And I dont doubt it would have been the 
intention of those  family  members to help. But circumstances can change  and theres  no 
guarantee that help would have been  available to Mr and Mrs P as and when they needed  it. 
With all of this in mind, I think the PPI probably  was suitable for their needs at that time. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr and Mrs P enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good  fit for their needs. That information had to 
be fair, clear  and not misleading. 
I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs P everything it should  have done  
about the cover. But Ive set out above how I think the PPI might have been helpful  for them  
if they were out of work.  And although I appreciate they dont now remember, I think  they 
probably chose  to buy this policy at the time  so it looks  as though  they wanted this type of 
cover back  then. Ultimately, I dont think theyd have  acted differently if Lloyds had given 
them more  or better information. 
As I said above, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I havent upheld  their complaint. I 
dont need to ask Lloyds  to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5237773