K820x#14complaint
Ms Q complains about the way Topaz Finance  Limited (trading  as Jasper  Mortgages)  has 
administered her two buy-to-let mortgage  accounts.
background
Ms Q had two buy-to-let mortgage accounts  that were  transferred to Topaz (trading as 
Jasper Mortgages)  in February 2018. Before that, the mortgages  were owned and 
administered by a different  lender.
Following the transfer to Jasper, Ms Q stopped  making payments to her accounts.  As a 
result, Jasper appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers to manage both properties. In 
August 2018 Ms Q contacted  Jasper,  cleared the arrears on both accounts and asked for the 
Receivers to be de-instructed. Jasper explained  that in order  to de-instruct the Receivers 
Ms Q would need to pass certain criteria, including a credit search. 
Ms Q was unhappy with this as she had cleared the arrears and so didnt see why further  
checks were needed.  She made a complaint to Jasper about the following:
The LPA Receivers had not been stood down  despite the fact shed cleared the 
arrears;
Her online account wasnt working  on certain dates in August;
She was unhappy  with the conduct of an agent  she spoke to;
She was concerned about a conflict of interest between Jasper mortgages and 
another mortgage company;
She was unhappy  shed  been charged a direct debit rejection fee.
Jasper apologised for the problems Ms Q had experienced with her online account but didnt 
uphold the rest of the complaint. It said it had made attempts  to contact Ms Q about the 
arrears on the account but didnt hear back from her until August 2018, after the Receivers 
had already been instructed. It explained that Ms Q had been  made  aware of the criteria that 
needed to be met in order to have the Receivers  stood down.
Jasper also explained it was unable to agree  the agent Ms Q had spoken to conducted  the 
call incorrectly.  It said it was not aware of the other  company Ms Q had mentioned,  and 
there is no connection between them. It also said the direct debit rejection fee had been 
applied in line with the Tariff of Mortgage fees and the terms of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN59098762Following this, Ms Q complained to Jasper  again. She complained  that Jasper had 
automatically capitalised  her arrears. Because of this, she felt the Receivers had been 
instructed unfairly  as the arrears  should  have been  extinguished when they were  capitalised. 
Jasper issued another final response letter, and didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Jasper explained it hadnt capitalised Ms Qs arrears since  it took over the mortgage in 2018.  
It also checked with the previous lender, who said it hadnt automatically  capitalised Ms Qs 
arrears either. Jasper said the monthly  mortgage payments had always  been  calculated on 
the balance that was due to be paid over the remaining term, minus the mortgage arrears  
and interest accrued on the arrears.
Ms Q brought her complaint to our service.  Specifically, she complained to us about the 
following:
Since the transfer of the mortgage  to Jasper,  correspondence and communication 
about the changes in relationship have not been  transparent or clear;
Jaspers administrative techniques  and management of the mortgage  accounts, 
including the validity of charges that have been applied;
Jasper unfairly appointed LPA Receivers when there were no arrears  accruing;
She feels overall that shes been  treated unfairly by Jasper  in respect  of her 
mortgage accounts.
Our investigator looked into things, and explained he was satisfied Jasper  had treated Ms Q 
fairly. So he didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms Q disagreed. She said that our service hadnt  
been provided with all of the relevant information  that shows what actually happened. She 
felt wed mis-understood her complaint and clarified  that she wanted us to look into the 
following points:
Whether the contractual administration of the mortgage accounts pre and post 
transfer to Jasper was exercised  fairly and reasonably?
Whether there is any evidence of monthly  capitalisation of interest  on the accounts?
Whether Ms Qs personal  circumstances and interests have been considered and 
treated fairly and reasonably?
Our investigator gave  Ms Q some additional time to provide any information  she wanted to 
send us, that she felt we hadnt considered. Ms Q hasnt provided any further  information,  so 
as Ms Q disagreed with the investigators outcome, the case has been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken account of the 
relevant law, guidance and industry practice  applicable to Ms Qs mortgages.
Ms Q has said she feels weve misunderstood her complaint points.  Shes provided clarity  
about what she wants our service to look at, so that is what Ill consider in this decision. 
However, where Ms Q has raised  very broad concerns  I will only consider  the specific  
issues shes already  raised with Jasper mortgages, and what its had the opportunity to 
respond to in its final response  letters  dated  November 2018  and April 2019. Ill also only be 
Ref: DRN59098763considering whats  happened since the mortgage was transferred to Jasper  in 
February 2018.
Ms Q has raised concerns about  the information  Jasper has provided our service about  her 
mortgage accounts. She told us theres information missing that we need to see in order to 
reach a fair outcome.  Weve asked her for more details about  this information, and given her 
the opportunity  to provide  it herself.  But she hasnt sent us anything.  As a result,  Ive based 
my decision  on the information  available to me.
The administration of the mortgage  and automatic  capitalisation
Ms Q is clearly  unhappy with how Jasper  has managed her mortgages since  they were  
transferred in 2018. Shes complained about  unclear communication, she thinks  the arrears 
and interest on her mortgages  have been automatically capitalised, and shes complained 
about a direct debit  rejection fee being applied to the account.
Jasper has provided a copy  of the letter it sent Ms Q when the mortgages were  transferred.  
This letter made it clear  that Jasper was taking over the mortgages, the new account 
numbers for Ms Qs mortgages, and details of how to pay. Whilst I appreciate  Ms Q raised 
several questions  about  the transfer, Im satisfied Jasper made it clear what the position 
was, and how Ms Q would need  to pay her mortgage payments moving forward.
Ms Q has referred to guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about 
automatic capitalisation.  She says Jasper  and the previous  lender have not been adhering to 
this guidance  as theyve automatically  capitalised the outstanding interest onto her mortgage 
balances. Ms Qs mortgages are both interest-only. So shes  right in saying that her 
contractual monthly payments  dont make up any of the capital   they are only the interest 
on the capital.
When Ms Q agreed to take out these  mortgages,  she did so on the basis  that she would pay 
interest each month on the amount borrowed. If Ms Q doesnt make these payments each 
month  this money  is still owed under the mortgage agreement, as she hasnt paid the 
interest that month  for the borrowing. As this is money that is due under the agreement that 
hasnt been paid, it gets added to the overall balance thats owed at the end of the term. As 
a consequence, the unpaid interest will attract additional interest as its money owed under 
the agreement, and it hasnt been  paid. 
When Ms Q caught up with these missed  interest  payments,  the amount was reduced from 
the balance owed as it was no longer outstanding. This is generally how all interest-only 
mortgages work and I cant see theres anything unusual or unfair about the way Jasper has 
administered the mortgages in Ms Qs case.
This isnt the same  as what happens  when  arrears are automatically capitalised   as Jasper 
hadnt included  the unpaid interest  payments in the contractual monthly amount that was 
due. The monthly  amount  that Jasper  was asking Ms Q for remained the same,  regardless 
of the arrears that had built on the accounts. Jasper was asking for the arrears to be repaid 
as a separate sum  and this is what Ms Q did. So Im not persuaded that Ms Q has been 
treated unfairly  in the way Jasper has administered her mortgage  accounts  since  they were 
transferred in February 2018.
Ref: DRN59098764Ms Q has also complained about  a direct debit rejection  fee of £6.50  that Jasper applied  to 
her mortgage account. The terms and conditions  of the mortgage say that the fees and 
charges applicable to the mortgage  are set out in the Tariff of Mortgage fees. These were 
the same  terms and conditions Ms Q agreed  to when  she took the mortgages out. 
When the mortgage transferred to Jasper,  Ms Q did not set up a direct debit. She only did 
this in August  2018 after shed discussed her concerns with Jasper  and cleared the arrears 
on the accounts. In October 2018 Jasper  contacted Ms Q about her direct debit as it had 
failed due to insufficient funds. Jasper then charged a fee of £6.50, which  Ms Q was notified  
of. Im satisfied this fee was added to the mortgage  in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the account. And as the direct debit had failed, Im satisfied the fee was applied  fairly in that 
instance.
The instruction of LPA Receivers
Ms Q says Jaspers instructions of the LPA Receivers to manage her properties  were unfair. 
In summary,  shes provided  two reasons  for this. She says as the arrears  were capitalised,  
they should have been extinguished in line with the FCAs guidance  and so Jasper  had no 
grounds to instruct  the Receivers as there were no arrears on the account. Secondly, Ms Q 
says she didnt make the payments to Jasper as she didnt know  who it was, and was 
questioning whether in fact it did own her mortgages. She didnt want  to make payments to 
Jasper until she was satisfied it was her mortgage lender. She was also going through  some  
difficult personal circumstances  at the time.
Ive already explained that I dont think Jasper administered  Ms Qs mortgages  incorrectly or 
unfairly. Ms Q didnt make any payments  to either  of her mortgages for a period of six 
months. Regardless of the fact these monthly payments didnt include any of the capital   
theyre still the contractual monthly  payments Ms Q agreed to pay under the mortgage  
contract that she agreed to. 
Jasper wrote to Ms Q on several occasions  asking her to contact it about the outstanding 
payments. As well as the welcome letter  it sent in February 2018, it sent an annual  mortgage  
statement in April 2018. This contained all the payments shed made  over the previous  
twelve months, as well as other  details  of the accounts. Even if Ms Q still didnt  feel assured 
that Jasper had taken  over her mortgage accounts  after receiving this, she complained  to 
them. In June 2018 Jasper issued  a final response letter  explaining that Topaz was the new 
legal title owner of the mortgage.  As well as other details  about the transfer.  
Jasper continued to write to Ms Q each month  about the missed payments, and eventually 
sent a final demand  letter,  which warned her of the possibility of instructing the Receivers.  In 
August 2018 following no response to the letter  Jasper  instructed  the Receivers and Ms Q 
was made  aware  of this by letter. It seems  it was this letter than prompted Ms Q to then ring 
Jasper and make a payment to clear the arrears.
The terms and conditions  of Ms Qs mortgages  say that the lender can take action to take 
possession of the property if two or more monthly payments are not made. Jasper did not 
take any further action until six monthly payments had been missed.  Whilst I appreciate  
Ms Q was going through some  challenging personal  circumstances during that time, she did 
not make  Jasper  aware of this until after the Receivers had been instructed. Im satisfied she 
was able to contact Jasper despite  her personal circumstances, as she did so (albeit  through 
a representative) to complain about  the transfer. Based on what Jasper knew at the time,  
Ref: DRN59098765and the multiple  failed  attempts to contact Ms Q, Im satisfied it was fair for Jasper  to appoint 
the Receivers when  it did.
In August  2018  Ms Q cleared the arrears  after speaking  with an agent  at Jasper. She asked 
for the Receivers  to be stood down as she was now up to date with the mortgages, and she 
was willing  to set up a direct debit for future payments. Jasper  explained it could look into 
de-instructing the Receivers following certain  criteria  was met. Ms Q was unhappy that part 
of this criteria included  a credit search.  Its unclear  whether this search went  ahead, as Ms Q 
then made  her complaint. But the Receivers were not stood down, and the properties  were 
taken into possession and placed on the market to redeem the mortgages.
I do understand that Ms Qs unhappy about Jaspers decision to keep the Receivers in place 
to manage the properties. But Ms Q had not been able to demonstrate to Jasper that she 
could make the monthly payments  owed on both mortgages. Whilst she did clear  the arrears  
in a lump sum, I can understand  why Jasper wanted to check  Ms Qs wider circumstances to 
ensure both mortgages were affordable for her, before re-committing  her to maintain 
mortgages that may not have been sustainable for her. So I dont think  Jaspers  request was 
unreasonable in this instance.
Overall, considering all of the circumstances Im not persuaded Jasper  has treated Ms Q 
unfairly here under the scope of this complaint.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5909876