K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that a used vehicle he acquired,  under  a hire purchase (HP)  agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), was of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Mr E says he agreed to acquire a vehicle from a dealership situated several hundred  miles 
away from where he resides.
Mr E says he viewed the vehicle, not in person, but on a video supplied to him by the 
dealership. Having viewed the video Mr E says he took the decision to acquire the vehicle 
(which the dealership then arranged to have  delivered to him) and to finance the acquisition  
by way of a HP agreement.
The vehicle was delivered to Mr E on 18 October 2018. The HP agreement commenced  on 
19 October 2018.
On the vehicle being delivered Mr E says it soon became apparent  that there was a number 
of issues with it and these hadnt  been  highlighted in the video he had been given.
Mr E says he contacted  VWFS and the dealership  on 19 October 2018. And the dealership,  
on 24 October 2018, advised him that he had two options:
return the vehicle,  have returned  to him his part exchanged vehicle, have the finance  
on the new vehicle  cancelled and have the finance on his part exchanged vehicle 
reinstated
keep the vehicle in the short term then exchange it for a brand-new  one with the 
necessary adjustments being made to the finance arrangements  and documentation  
at the time of exchange
Mr E says he took the decision to accept the first option because  there  was too long a wait 
for a brand-new vehicle to become  available for an exchange to take place. But he then 
agreed to take another used vehicle from the dealerships network. However,  this exchange  
couldnt proceed because his application for finance  was declined.
Mr E says that he was unable to contact the dealership so contacted VWFS to complain. He 
then says he received  an email from the dealership saying it wouldnt now accept  rejection of 
the vehicle followed  by a final response letter from VWFS  saying  it wasnt upholding his 
complaint on the grounds that the steering vibration and soft suspension hadnt been  
evidenced, the other issues  were cosmetic and commensurate with the vehicles age and 
mileage and that the dealership had never  agreed  to a rejection.
After receiving VWFSs final response letter Mr E continued to correspond  with the 
dealership with the view of reaching  a satisfactory  resolution to his complaint.  But this wasnt 
successful.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators  who came to the view that it 
should be upheld.  In summary she said she was satisfied  that Mr E acquired a vehicle that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and that he exercised his right to reject it within 30 days. She 
then went on to explain what she felt VWFS should do to fairly compensate  Mr E. 
Ref: DRN52031402Following receipt of the adjudicators view VWFS  asked if the vehicle could be inspected. 
Mr E agreed to an inspection, but for various reasons this never took place.
Following substantial correspondence between the parties, where a number  of options were 
discussed, it was agreed  that Mr Es complaint should be passed  to me for review  and 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in December 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They  have both 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety.  However,  I trust that both parties will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  and that they are 
expressed in considerably  less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point  raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. I would also point out that where the information  Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear  or contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what  I consider was good industry  practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so we can consider
a complaint relating to it. VWFS  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of
agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of them,  
the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely  that in a case
involving a vehicle, the other  relevant circumstances  a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the vehicles history.
VWFS supplied  Mr E with a vehicle  that was two and half years old and had travelled 
approximately 32,000 miles.  And the price of the vehicle was lower  than it would have  been  
if it had been supplied new. 
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts  of the vehicle 
might have already  suffered some  wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this vehicle 
might need  repair and/or  maintenance sooner  than a vehicle which wasnt  as road-worn 
when it was supplied.  But equally  this needs to be considered  against  the cash price of the 
vehicle  which was in excess of £48,000  and against how it was described.
Ref: DRN52031403Based on the evidence  Ive seen from all the interested parties to this complaint  Mr E, 
VWFS and the original  supplying dealership   Im satisfied that Mr E was supplied  with a 
vehicle that has one or more faults  with it. In coming to this conclusion  Ive had regard, 
amongst other things,  to the following:
The various call recordings provided,  in particular those between Mr E and VWFS 
that took place  almost  immediately  after Mr E took delivery  of the vehicle.
How quickly  Mr E raised his concerns about the quality  of the vehicle with the original 
supplying dealership.
The original supplying  dealerships offer to assist Mr E after he had raised his 
concerns about the quality of the vehicle. 
How long after Mr E complained about  the quality of the vehicle that an inspection  of 
it was first suggested.
The various photographs and videos supplied by Mr E in support of his submission 
that the vehicle supplied  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
The report provided by Mr E carried out in February 2019 in support  of his 
submission that the vehicle supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Having carefully considered all of the relevant circumstances, including  the price, age, and 
mileage of the vehicle  when  it was supplied, when the faults first happened or were  noted as 
present by Mr E, and how the vehicle was described  I dont think the goods  were of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that VWFS needs  to do something  to put things 
right. 
When Mr E found out that there was something  wrong with the vehicle, he told VWFS he 
wanted to return  it. And I can see that Mr E asserted his short  term right to reject the vehicle 
within 30 days of getting it, a fact acknowledged by VWFS in one or more of the call 
recordings Ive listened to. So, considering the relevant law, I think  its fair that Mr E can 
reject the vehicle.
Now based on what has been said and provided its my understanding  that:
the cash price of the vehicle was £48,782.46
Mr E received £27,037.40 for his part exchanged vehicle
the outstanding finance on the part exchanged vehicle was £27,037.40
the outstanding finance on the part exchanged vehicle was settled with no negative  
equity accruing
Mr E paid a £250 deposit for the vehicle leaving a sum outstanding and due of 
£48,532.46
only the sum of £48,532.46  was financed,  nothing else, for example  additional  
insurances and/or service  plans
Ref: DRN52031404to date Mr E has made  three contractual payments  of £962.16 under the HP 
agreement  a total of £2,886.48
since the vehicle  was acquired a further 5,500 miles or so have been added to the 
odometer
since the vehicle  was acquired Mr E says he has spent money on it which he 
wouldnt have had to do had his request for rejection been  accommodated  when, or 
shortly after, it was made
he wouldnt have lost out on a holiday had his request for rejection of the vehicle 
been accommodated when, or shortly after, it was made
Now I accept that had Mr Es request for rejection  of the vehicle been accommodated when, 
or shortly after, it was made he wouldnt have incurred the costs  he says he has incurred, he 
wouldnt have made the three contractual monthly payments that he did and he might  not 
have lost out on a holiday.  But equally I cant ignore  the fact that there appears to have been  
over 5,000  miles added to the vehicles odometer since it was acquired by Mr E, suggesting  
that he was able to get some use out of it.
So, taking everything  into account and ultimately having regard to what  is fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think that as well as allowing 
Mr E to reject the vehicle  VWFS should:
refund  Mr Es deposit of £250 together  with interest
pay Mr E £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter  has caused him
but it need not pay or refund anything further.
Mr E responded to say that he accepted  my provisional decision.
VWFS responded to say that it accepted  my provisional decision, but if it transpires that 
there is damage to the vehicle beyond the cosmetic issues outlined in the complaint  then it 
reserves the right to charge Mr E for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted in response  to my provisional findings I 
see no reason to depart from them and I now confirm them  as final.
However, for the sake  of clarity, I would add that if VWFS wishes to charge Mr E for any 
damage to the vehicle  beyond the cosmetic  issues outlined  in this complaint it must  not 
offset this damage  charge against  the award I make here. Furthermore, if Mr E disagrees 
with any charge raised by VWFS, or any part of it, then he is free to raise this as a new 
complaint.
Ref: DRN52031405my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited must:
end the agreement with nothing further  for Mr E to pay
collect the vehicle  without cost to Mr E
refund  Mr Es initial deposit  of £250  adding  8% simple interest per year*  to this sum, 
calculated from the date Mr E paid it to the date its refunded 
clear all information regarding the agreement from Mr Es credit file
pay Mr E £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter  has caused him
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited  to take tax 
off this interest. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must give Mr E a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken  off, if Mr E asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5203140