K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that an adviser  acting as an appointed representative  of Openwork Limited  
gave him inappropriate advice. He says he has lost out financially because,  based  on the 
advice he was given,  he put his defined  benefit pension into payment instead of taking  cash  
from his smaller pension pots.  
background
Mr A and his partner knew the Openwork  appointed representative socially.  They  first met 
with the adviser  in his official capacity as an appointed representative of Openwork on 
13 September 2018. This complaint concerns just Mr As pensions.
Mr A says they explained to the adviser  that they wanted to consolidate  their pension pots 
and each set up a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). Mr A had recently  been  made  
redundant and was setting up a new business. He had received a £35,000 redundancy 
payment. His partner wasnt working. They  had two children to support aged  10 and 12. Mr 
A was aged  56 at the time. 
Mr As adviser made quite detailed notes of the meetings he had with Mr A and his partner. 
The note of the first meeting recorded  that Mr A had £133,000 worth  of money purchase 
pension benefits  and a defined benefit  scheme  valued in 2005 at £22,825,  which would pay 
out around £5,000 per annum.
Mr As adviser wrote to the different companies and providers to obtain  Mr As pension  
details. 
A second meeting took place on 28 September 2018. The adviser reviewed Mr As 
objectives again. One of Mr As aims was to take cash  from his pensions as he had no cash  
reserves and this and the money from Mr As redundancy was to be used as cash flow for 
his new consultancy and coaching business. It was calculated  that his familys essential 
monthly expenditure was £4,478 per month,  a total of £5,598 with leisure activities  included.
A third meeting took place  on 10 October 2018. The pension information from Company  A 
and Company B had still not been received. The adviser had chased  up the information the 
day before. The adviser  noted that there were no major benefits in the small pension pots 
and all had reasonably low charges  and funds. 
The notes recorded  that Mr A still wanted  to take his tax free cash  and was considering  
transferring his Company A pension because of the small amount of income it would 
produce each year.  The adviser recorded that Mr A said he was actively building up clients 
in his business venture and would start out being self-employed,  but convert to a limited 
company in around 18 months time. The next meeting  was set for 14 November 2018 
following Mr As overseas business trips.
At the fourth  meeting on 14 November 2018, the pension information from Companies  A and 
B was available. After  all the information  was obtained it was established, that Mr A had the 
following pensions:
A Company A defined  benefit scheme valued at approximately £108,000;
Ref: DRN59183912A Company B occupational defined contribution scheme valued  at approximately 
£103,000. This scheme offered a protected tax free element of 36%, rather  than the 
usual 25% TFC);
2 personal pension schemes  with Provider C, total value  £26,000; and
2 personal pension schemes  with Provider D, total value  £7,000.
The adviser told Mr A that he would  not be able to provide him with advice in relation to the 
Company A pension  because Openworks policy was not to provide advice where the value 
of the defined benefit scheme was below £150,000.  The adviser told him that his only option,  
if  he didnt want to pursue alternative  advice, was to leave it as is and take his benefits  at 
normal retirement date (60 for Mr A) and this would maximise the tax free cash  (TFC) 
available, or take it now with an actuarial  reduction. 
It was also noted  that Mr A said he would prefer to move his Company B pension  and forego 
the additional £9,000  TFC. This because he didnt want  to buy an annuity at his age and 
wanted access to capital in the future  in any event. The adviser discussed fund choices with 
Mr A post transfer.
The adviser noted that one of the tasks he was going to complete post the meeting was to 
contact Company A and obtain  a requirement quote for taking benefits aged  57 (in February 
2019).
On 26 November 2018, the adviser  called Mr A having received  a text from him about  how to 
take tax free cash  from his pensions. The note records they discussed the mechanics of 
taking TFC. The adviser recorded that with personal  pensions  it was easier (subject to 
advice). With Company  B, it was noted  that this was more difficult  and would need to be fully 
assessed because  of foregoing the protected TFC, which was approximately  £9,000.
The notes from the time show that Mr A indicated he was prepared to forego  the protected 
TFC because he didnt want an annuity  and wanted access  to the remaining  amount of 
money in his pension pot after taking the TFC.
Mr A asked how long transfers would take.  The adviser said his recommendations could be 
finalised by January and transfers could be completed (if advisable) in February.
The advisers notes  show he discussed  the TFC available  from the Company A pension,  but 
as Company A hadnt provided the figures  yet, the adviser said he would call Mr A once he 
had the information.
On 26 November 2018, the adviser  called Mr A to give him the figures from Company A, but 
said that Company  A would confirm this with Mr A directly, in writing. The adviser also called 
Company A that day and asked for a quote taking the benefits at 57.
On 5 December  2018, Mr A and the adviser met again, for the fifth time. Mr A said he 
wanted to access  his TFC. The adviser  noted,  after advice, he wanted to move  all his 
smaller pension pots. In relation to the Company B pension,  the adviser said that to access 
the protected TFC the only options  available were to fully encash, but if he did so, he would 
suffer a serious  tax charge on the residual  sum or he could purchase an annuity. Mr A said 
he didnt want an annuity and would rather lose the protected TFC for the flexibility  of having 
Ref: DRN59183913access to the remainder of his pot. In those  circumstances, the adviser said the case would 
have to be referred internally for approval.  The adviser said if this was not advisable,  then it 
would be best to wait until a new tax year as he would be showing lower  earnings for that 
year. 
In relation to the Company A pension,  the notes said again  that Openwork would not advise 
on such a small  defined  benefit scheme.  So, Mr A would simply have to take the benefits 
and he awaited  confirmation on the benefits  if taken early February,  when he turns  57. The 
notes recorded  that the next meeting was scheduled  for 9 January 2019, to run through  
results and take forward recommendations for the pensions.
On 14 December 2018, the adviser  received Mr As retirement benefits option  pack  from 
Company A. 
On 17 December 2018, Mr A texted  the adviser saying he had received  Company As 
retirement pack and wanted  to check he wasnt missing anything.  Company A had sent Mr A 
the retirement quote direct. The quote was based  on him vesting his pension whilst he was 
still 56. Mr A was going to be 57 in February  2019, and if he waited until his birthday, he 
wouldve received  more, as he was a year older. The notes record that the adviser  pointed  
this out.
Its noted that Mr A said he wanted to take the TFC as he wanted  it for his business. Further, 
during the discussion on 17 December 2018,  the adviser told Mr A that it was not that he 
couldnt transfer his defined benefits (the Company A pension), just that Openwork wouldnt 
provide advice in relation to it. The meeting notes record that Mr A was keen to take his 
benefits and Mr A would  send off the forms. They would pick up in January to deal with the 
remaining pensions exercise.
The notes show that on 17 December 2018, the adviser checked  internally  whether  he was 
required to do anything  further regarding Mr As defined benefit company pension given that 
he couldnt provide Mr A with any advice in relation to it.. The adviser was told that no further  
action was required, save to keep copies  of the notes and conversations.
On 2 January  2019, the adviser called Openwork who said that it would be difficult to justify 
moving the Company B pension in the circumstances outlined,  even  if Mr A wanted flexibility 
over the residual pot. The adviser also called Mr A to ask exactly  how much cash  he needed 
after having  already taken  TFC from his Company A pension.
On 3 January  2019, Mr A told the adviser he needed all the TFC available because his 
business was still in the early stages and not bringing in an income.  Worst case scenario, he 
said, he would need another  4 months  money  (£22,000).
On 22 January 2019, Mr A made another call internally about recommending  a transfer of 
the Company  B pension. The colleague he spoke  to said she would  not be comfortable 
recommending a transfer.
On 30 January 2019, the adviser  met with Mr A again. Mr A told him the company was 
taking longer to set up than expected and since his redundancy  the money had been used to 
cover living expenses and the cost of training courses and equipment. He wanted  to draw on 
his pension to fund his income needs  for as long as was required. The adviser told him that 
Openwork was not keen to recommend a transfer  of his Company B pension, so he would 
need to get a formal recommendation from elsewhere if he wanted to pursue this. The 
Ref: DRN59183914adviser told him he may approach another company to see if he could move to their SIPP  
(but he couldnt  recommend this action).  He gave him details of another  company.
In February 2019,  Mr A complained to Openwork about the advice hed received from its 
appointed representative. Openwork didnt uphold Mr As complaint, so he complained to 
this service.
Our adjudicators view was that:
from the advisers notes it seemed clear  that Mr As main  objective was to access  
cash to help with his new business  and to meet household expenditure. It appeared 
that the adviser had reviewed Mr As attitude to risk and objectives at each of their 
meetings;
the evidence  didnt show that Mr A was advised either to approach  another  adviser or 
to vest his Company  A pension.  He was instead told that he had other options to get 
access to his TFC,  but Openwork wasnt in a position to advise  on that.
she hadnt seen  anything to suggest  that Openwork provided  unsuitable advice.
Openwork didnt need to do anything to put things  right.
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators view. So, his complaint comes to me to consider. He 
said, in summary:
His pension assets were £244,000 and not £133,000  as mentioned  by the 
adjudicator;
His key complaint was that due to either withholding information  or poor advice he 
was left with no other option than to vest his Company A pension at the end of 
December. This was clearly never his intention.
The smaller  pension  pots couldve been moved in a matter of days, if he had been  
told this at the time he wouldnt  have needed  to vest his Company  A pension.
It took from 23 October 2018 to 30 January 2019  for the adviser and his network to 
conclude that they couldnt advise on the Company B pension.
Vesting his Company A pension has meant  that he is now unable  to move the 
pension into a SIPP. Further,  he only received 15% TFC, instead of 25%.
The advisers motivations for holding back information about the smaller pension 
pots, slow decision making  regarding the Company B pension, and late information 
about approaching another adviser  were to:
oreduce the administrative effort for his firm as much as possible;
oto try and convince his network  to move  the Company B pension,  even 
though it was below its threshold. The adviser  asked  for a business plan to 
explain the rationale.
ohe knew he would lose Mr A as a customer if his Company B pension couldnt 
be transferred. And also, he knew he would  lose Mr As partners  pension  
business.
The adviser did advise him to approach  another adviser at the meeting on               
30 January 2019 and his partner can back this up. He initiated the transfer  process 
for his smaller  pots and Company  B pension that afternoon.
He couldve transferred his Company A pension to the other  platform, so long as he 
had taken independent financial advice before doing so. He couldve  moved  his 
smaller pension pots within a matter of days.  He could move his Company B 
pension. 
Ref: DRN59183915If he had taken independent advice, he wouldve been  able to achieve his objectives. 
He was able to transfer his small pension pots within a matter  of days. His 
Company B pension  was transferred in 3 weeks. There wouldve been no need to 
vest his Company  A pension as a result.
He couldve transferred his Company A pension to a consolidated SIPP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and considered the view 
given by our adjudicator, I have reached  the same conclusion and shall not be upholding 
Mr As complaint.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr A has said. Ive also looked at the notes prepared  by the 
adviser. These appear to have been written at the time of events and prior to February 2019, 
before this complaint was known about. The notes are detailed and I think they can 
reasonably be relied on given  the circumstances in which they were put together.
Firstly, I should say the adviser  was appointed to provide Mr A and his partner with pensions 
and other  insurance  related advice. I am just dealing with the pensions advice that Mr A 
received. Mr A had six pension schemes; his partner  had more than one scheme. The 
meetings were always joint meetings. So, there  was quite a bit of information the adviser had 
to collect to be able to provide Mr A with pensions  advice.
Mr A says the adviser  was slow in his decision making and held back  information. I have 
seen no evidence of this having looked through the advisers notes.
Company A pension
I can see that as soon as he realised  the value of the Company  A pension was below  
£150,000 (Openworks advice threshold) the adviser  told Mr A he couldnt  provide him with 
advice in relation  to this. I can also see that the adviser told Mr A this again  on more  than 
one occasion,  including  telling Mr A in December 2018, shortly before Mr A decided to vest 
his benefits. Mr A was told that it was possible to transfer these  benefits,  but Openwork  
wouldnt advise him in relation to this.
The adviser went on to gather  the information  from Company A about this pension and 
Mr As TFC entitlement.  This included asking Company  A to provide a quote  for February 
2019, when Mr A was 57, because he knew he would get more. 
The adviser passed relevant information on to Mr A in a timely way, and ensured Mr A 
received the information direct from the Company. He responded to Mr As enquiries about 
this pension in a timely way. He did all these things even though  he wasnt advising  Mr A in 
relation this pension and therefore financially he would derive no direct benefit from doing  
so. 
I think the adviser passed on all relevant information to enable Mr A to make an informed 
choice about whether  to vest his pension early, or to take advice on transferring.
Ref: DRN59183916I cant see that the adviser provided  Mr A with any advice in relation to this pension.
Company B pension
Mr A clearly  believes  that the adviser  was slow to advise him that he could  not recommend 
the transfer of this pension. He thinks this was because  he knew  he would lose his business 
(and his partners)  if he told him this earlier on.
In my view, the situation with this pension  was more complex than with the Company A 
pension. This was a defined  contribution  scheme, so the £150,000 transfer threshold that 
Mr A has referred to isnt relevant here. Openworks policy only applied to defined  benefit 
schemes.
The question here was whether Openwork could reasonably recommend the transfer  of this 
pension, knowing that Mr A would be giving up £9,000  in protected tax free cash if he did so. 
There was also an issue around  tax charges as Mr A had been a higher tax rate payer 
during that financial  year.  As I see it, it wasnt unreasonable for the adviser to ask Mr A for 
details of his business plan and the amount of TFC he needed. I think  he was trying to build 
the case to meet Mr As objective of transferring his benefits, accessing  his TFC and having  
some flexibility over the residual pension.  
The adviser explained to Mr A that he would have to refer the decision for internal approval 
and in January  2019, he was seeking second opinions from colleagues as to whether he 
could recommend transfer as a suitable  option.
At the end of January  2019, it became apparent that he could not recommend it. He 
provisionally told Mr A this at the 30 January 2019 meeting. Mr A had been told earlier he 
would receive the advisers recommendation report in January, with possible transfers in 
February (if advised). He provided his provisional advice within  this timescale.
I cant see any evidence of Mr A withholding information or being  slow in his decision 
making. This was a more complex  situation. Looking at the notes, I consider that the adviser 
gathered relevant information and kept Mr A appraised in a timely way.
I cant see that the provisional  advice given was unsuitable, in the circumstances, taking into 
account what Mr A wouldve been giving up.
Small pension pots 
To provide Mr A with advice about  these pensions, the adviser  obtained general information  
about Mr As pensions, including the charges that applied and the performance  of the funds. 
He was not simply looking at whether Mr A could transfer these personal pensions  into a 
SIPP and how many days that would take, but whether that was a suitable  recommendation. 
To be able to give Mr A appropriate advice this involved  looking at his circumstances and 
pension arrangements as a whole   which included understanding whether  it was going to 
be possible  to consolidate his other  pensions  in a SIPP,  as was Mr As original objective. 
It is not uncommon for a SIPP to be regarded as an unsuitable product where the total 
transfer value  is less than £50,000,  as wouldve been the case here if Mr As Company A or 
Company B pensions  had not also been transferred. 
Ref: DRN59183917The position  as regards Mr As Company B pension didnt become  clear until the end of 
January 2019,  so I dont think the adviser  can be criticised for not providing him with a 
recommendation in relation to his smaller  pension pots prior to this.
Mr A said he transferred his small pension pots within three days of the adviser telling him 
about the other SIPP provider. Importantly, Mr A had appointed Openwork to provide him 
with pensions advice . The SIPP  provider  offered a different offering - an execution only SIPP 
platform. This meant  no advice was provided,  and it was down to Mr A to make  his own 
decisions about whether to transfer  and whether this would be the right thing to do in his 
circumstances. Also, by then Mr As adviser had obtained all the relevant information from 
the schemes to enable  the execution only transfer  to proceed quicker. Mr A didnt have  to tell 
Mr A about  this other provider  he had approached Openwork for advice.
Financial loss
Whilst Mr A takes the view that he has lost out financially  because  of the advisers actions,  I 
dont see it that way.  
It seems  to me that in December 2018, Mr A appeared to need  to access  his TFC urgently. I 
cant see that the adviser couldve  known that from what Mr A told him in advance  and I think  
the adviser clearly  told Mr A that he could  expect any transfers  to go through (if advised)  in 
February 2019. 
Mr A didnt wait until he received the recommendations report from his adviser (expected  in 
January 2019) or wait to vest his benefits until his 57th birthday, in February 2019, when he 
would likely  have got more. He was clearly  told shortly before vesting he would be able to 
transfer his Company A pension, just that the adviser couldnt  advise on it. 
So, in my view, Mr A was given the information he required  to make his own informed choice 
in relation to his Company  A pension and so Openwork doesnt have to do anything  to put 
things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918391