K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Marsden Building Society  mis-sold  them  a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  sold the PPI in 2002 at the same time as they arranged their mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B recall  that, in order to get the mortgage agreed  in principle, they had to agree 
to whatever Marsden  BS wanted to add to it, although they dont recall the PPI being  
discussed with them at all.
Mr and Mrs B are correct in thinking  that they had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage. 
Marsden BSs practice at that time was to require people to take out PPI if they were  
borrowing more than 80% of the value of the property they wanted to buy. Mr and Mrs B 
were borrowing approximately 89% of the value of their property. Marsden BS was entitled 
to set such conditions  on its lending, as long as it explained things clearly to its customers.
Ive seen the paperwork from the sale. The mortgage application form has a tick in the box 
next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect  my mortgage  payments against accident, 
sickness and/or unemployment.  Mr and Mrs B then completed a separate  PPI application 
form which they signed on 17 April 2002. It shows that they chose cover for Mr B only, and 
that the cost was £13.65  per month  for a benefit  of £260 per month.  The mortgage offer 
states that: The mortgage is subject to the Societys  sickness,  accident  and redundancy 
policy being taken.  Mr and Mrs B signed  the offer form on 8 May 2002. 
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollection of events has faded. Looking at the evidence, I think its likely that there  was 
some discussion  about the PPI. I think Mr and Mrs B would  have been  aware  that they 
needed to agree to the PPI to get the mortgage from Marsden BS. If they didnt want  the 
policy they could  have chosen  to take out their mortgage with a different  lender.
Marsden BS says it didnt advise the couple  to take out the PPI. I havent  seen  any evidence 
that they did, but I dont really need to make a finding  on this issue  because it doesnt  make 
a difference to my decision.  If Marsden BS did recommend the policy  to Mr and Mrs B then it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs.  And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Ref: DRN57984062Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was taken  out in Mr Bs name  only.  This seems 
reasonable as Mr B was the main  wage earner. Mr B also wouldnt have received any sick 
pay if he was too ill to work, whereas  Mrs B had quite generous sick pay. The couple  didnt  
have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on. So I think they had a need for the 
policy to cover Mr B, and could have  benefitted  from it.
Mr B was self-employed. Mr and Mrs B have said that any PPI sold to a self-employed 
person is classified as mis-sold as that person cant be made  redundant. It is not the case  
that PPI is always unsuitable  for self-employed people, it depends on what  the policy  terms 
say about when a self-employed person can claim for unemployment. Sometimes policies  
made it much harder for a self-employed person to claim and in those  instances  we would 
usually conclude that the policy was mis-sold.  However, looking at the policy  terms in this 
case, it would have been no more  difficult for Mr B to make a successful claim for 
unemployment than an employed person, so I wouldnt be able to conclude that the policy  
was mis-sold on that basis.
Its possible that Marsden  BS didnt provide as much  information about the policy  as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr B wasnt affected by any 
of those things.  As I think that Mr and Mrs B had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy 
it as part of that particular mortgage deal, I dont think that further information would have 
caused them  to change their minds.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798406