K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card, in 2001.  Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her PPI with the 
card.
To keep  things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover)  arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case and said they didnt think  we should uphold  the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything  wrong  in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has nevertheless made an offer to 
Mrs F as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost - in relation 
to the commission  element  - was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Fs representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission  mentioned above. Ive seen 
that Halifax has made an offer in respect  this, and I too think  the offer to refund some of the 
cost to compensate  for the commission  element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI if she didnt 
want to, however, she chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen the original credit 
agreement which she signed.  I note the yes option  to have PPI with the new card was 
selected with an x. In my view,  this was clear enough and probably  selected on the form 
Ref: DRN57982692after a discussion about what  Mrs F wanted  to do. I also think the PPI costs would have 
shown up on her monthly credit card statements. If she hadnt agreed  to buy the PPI, or 
had somehow misunderstood the form, I think shed have been prompted to ask what  the 
charges were for. Ive been sent nothing suggesting this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs F as part of an advised sale,  so it had to check 
that it was right for her. In my view,  the evidence about Mrs Fs circumstances  at the 
time, shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For 
example, she was eligible for the cover and it could have paid 10% of her monthly card 
balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim.  Ive considered  all this against her 
likely job-related benefits and other  means she may have had, which  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to. Overall,  I think the policy was suitable  for her.
There was nothing  about Mrs Fs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that would  have affected her ability to successfully claim. The policy  didnt appear to 
have specific additional rules on claims relating to back  and mental health conditions.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it could have been, but as Ive said, the evidence  shows she chose to take it out and 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt wrong for Mrs F as Ive mentioned  above,  or 
too dissimilar to what she reasonably  thought she was buying  from the information  she 
was likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable  for her, so it seems 
like it would have been useful if something  went wrong. I therefore dont think  Mrs F 
would have declined  the policy even if Halifax had done a better job at explaining things.
Overall, I therefore consider that Mrs F would  have still taken  out PPI, even  if Halifax didnt 
do everything right. I think the policy provided  a useful  benefit. I also think the it was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting.  The evidence  shows it was 
something she wanted to have.
Mrs Fs representative  has raised  a number  of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
However, Mrs Fs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of her individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might  apply in Mrs Fs particular 
case. But the points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions  about  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
non-disclosure of commission
Ref: DRN57982693As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue  of non-disclosure  of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply   but in any event I note its since offered to pay back  some  of the cost of 
PPI, so theres nothing  more it needs  to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mrs Fs representative  has made  a number  of points about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they said Mrs F should get back  all the money she 
paid for the policy because  Halifax  failed  to tell her about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover.  
Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that 
Mrs F wouldnt have  taken out the policy had she known  about the level of commission. Her 
representative says she should receive  a refund of all the premiums  paid.
However, in this case, Halifax  has shown us that the commission for Mrs Fs PPI was less 
than half of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Halifax  has worked  this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mrs Fs case  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore  below the threshold mentioned in the rules 
about compensating consumers.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which require a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs F about  the commission levels  in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont  think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mrs F unfairly  in this context. This means it doesnt need  to 
pay Mrs F back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mrs F some  of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded that the non-disclosure of 
commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN57982694I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mrs Fs complaint or make any award  in her favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. It 
should therefore now make arrangements to pay her, if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798269