K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that MYJAR  Limited  (MYJAR)  lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr E took out a payday loan from MYJAR on 9th January  2015  for £100 to be repaid 22 days 
later in 1 instalment of £117.60.
Mr Es complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He sent a letter to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. He concluded that MYJAR didnt need to 
carry out any further checks at the time it granted  the loan to Mr E and didnt do anything  
wrong. 
Mr E didnt agree with our adjudicator. He said MYJAR was irresponsible to lend to him.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr E could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Es income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN52532552MYJAR did a number of checks before it lent to Mr E. It asked  him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr E had left over each 
month. MYJAR also used  the credit reference  agency checks  to gather some more  
information about Mr Es financial  situation  at that time.
Mr E approached MYJAR  on 9th January 2015 for his first payday loan with it. The 
repayment that Mr E had agreed to make  on this loan was relatively  modest compared to the 
income that hed declared to MYJAR. This was the first time Mr E had approached MYJAR 
for a loan and from what I have seen, I dont think there was any reason for MYJAR to doubt  
the information Mr E had provided about his income  and expenditure.
I have also seen results from the credit  checks that MYJAR carried  out at the time.  These  
checks failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mr E was having problems 
managing his money.
I acknowledge Mr Es comments  about  his finances at the time the loan was granted.  He 
says MYJAR  should have  found out about his finances and his situation at the time and that 
he would  have struggled to repay the loan.  But that wasnt something he told MYJAR when 
he asked for the loan,  nor do I think it is something MYJAR should have discovered from 
proportionate checks at this early  stage. I think it was reasonable here for MYJAR  to rely on 
the information that Mr E provided about his finances when assessing the affordability of the 
loan. I dont think it would be proportionate to expect MYJAR to have gone further and 
sought to independently  verify what Mr E had said. And as the information Mr E provided 
suggested that the loans  were affordable for him I dont think that MYJAR did anything  
wrong when it agreed to lend.
In conclusion, I dont  think MYJAR  did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to Mr E.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5253255