K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the clinical advice she received from one of Aviva Insurance Limiteds  
(Aviva) suppliers during  a claim she made  on her private medical insurance policy. She 
also complains about incorrect advice given to her by Aviva about  MRI providers and 
hospitals. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019. I asked everyone to 
send me any further comments and information before I reached a final decision. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
Mrs B is an insured person on a company private medical insurance policy which  is 
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
In July 2016 Mrs B injured  her knee when crouching down in her kitchen.  She 
contacted Aviva and was referred to the Back to Better service   Avivas 
musculoskeletal clinical  case  management  service.
Mrs B was initially  offered  a DVD  of remedial exercises, but she explained  they 
wouldnt be appropriate. Instead she selected  some  physiotherapy sessions through  
one of Avivas approved  physiotherapists. After four sessions her knee was still in 
pain, so she visited her GP who suggested that an MRI was required.
Aviva agreed to cover the cost of the MRI but gave some incorrect  advice as to 
where Mrs B would have  to go for the scan. Following the MRI it was established  that 
Mrs B needed an operation. Mrs B selected the specialist she wanted to use, and 
Aviva provided some  information about  which of its approved hospitals the specialist 
operated in.
After attending  her consultation Mrs B discovered  the information Aviva  provided 
about the approved hospitals was out of date.  The only hospital  he now operated  in 
wasnt one of Avivas approved hospitals. Aviva offered  to provide a list of alternative 
specialists, but due to the pain she was in Mrs B was reluctant to change  specialists. 
So she proceeded with the operation  under her specialist at a non-approved hospital.
Following the operation  Mrs Bs specialist recommended that she undergo  
physiotherapy with a particular physiotherapist, but Aviva didnt approve this as the 
recommended physiotherapist wasnt one of its approved physiotherapists.
Mrs B is unhappy with the clinical advice she received. She said it likely made the 
issue worse. Shes also unhappy with the incorrect advice she received about the 
MRI and hospitals her specialist used. Aviva has accepted that the service it provided  
regarding the advice about  the MRI and Mrs Bs specialist was below its usual 
standard. It says it has awarded £250 to compensate for this. It advised  Mrs B that it 
is not responsible  for any clinical advice provided  by the Back to Better  supplier, but 
it referred her complaint about  this issue  on to the supplier.
Ref: DRN59511362Mrs B wasnt  happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. She said 
she would  like Aviva  to cover the shortfall she incurred by having her operation 
completed in a non-approved  hospital,  and for using a physiotherapist her specialist 
recommended. She also wanted us to assess whether  the clinical  advice she 
received was appropriate.
Our investigator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint was one our service  had the power to 
look into. He said the clinical advice provided  to Mrs B wasnt  an activity regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  and as such was outside of our jurisdiction.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with our investigators  assessment, so the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator felt that this complaint wasnt one our service had the power  to look 
at. But from what Ive see there are a number of elements of this complaint that we 
can consider. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt  have the power to consider every  
complaint thats  brought to us. The rules which govern  our service (the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  Dispute Resolution Rules) say we can consider complaints about  
the effecting and carrying  out of a regulated contract of insurance, amongst other 
things. 
So, we can consider Mrs Bs complaint about  the information and advice  Aviva  gave 
to her about the process of claiming  under her private medical  insurance  policy. 
I appreciate that being given incorrect information  about the address for the centre 
Mrs B attended for her MRI and about which approved hospitals Mrs Bs specialist 
operated in mustve  been frustrating for Mrs B. Aviva has accepted the service it 
provided in the respect was poor and has awarded £250 to compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience that it caused.  Ive considered  the impact  of Avivas 
mistakes on Mrs B, as well as our published  guidance on the payment of 
compensation, and I think the amount Aviva has offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs B wants  Aviva  to consider paying  the shortfall she incurred by undergoing 
treatment at a non-approved hospital and later with a non-approved physiotherapist. 
But the policy document specifically says that if the policy holder receives  treatment 
at a hospital not on their hospital list and recognised  by Aviva it will calculate the 
average cost of equivalent  treatment across all hospitals on the members list and 
that average cost is the maximum Aviva will pay. It says the policy  doesnt  cover any 
shortfall this might create.  The policy document also says that physiotherapy is only 
covered when provided by its providers approved network. These  are common  terms 
in private medical  insurance policies. 
I also understand that this was explained to Mrs B by the Back to Better  service,  and 
that it offered  to provide  details of alternative  specialists  to avoid a shortfall occurring. 
Ref: DRN59511363I appreciate Mrs Bs reasons for choosing to stay with her specialist, and for following  
his advice in using his recommended physiotherapist  after the surgery. But taking 
everything into account, I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover  the 
shortfalls as they arent covered under the terms and conditions  of her policy.
I understand Mrs B is primarily  unhappy  with the clinical advice she received through 
the Back  to Better  service supplier. She says they are contracted by Aviva,  so she 
feels it is ultimately responsible for the advice she received. But Aviva isnt 
responsible for any clinical advice given by a third party.
 
Avivas responsibilities to Mrs B are set out in the terms and conditions of her policy, 
and these are to provide cover for eligible treatment of acute conditions.  This 
treatment is, among other things, to be carried out by a healthcare professional, such 
as a specialist,  who is qualified to provide treatment and care for the condition. From 
what Ive seen, Aviva has provided the cover required under the policy. I appreciate 
Mrs B is unhappy with the clinical advice she received, but this service cant  consider 
a complaint about the clinical advice given by the supplier. 
The supplier  has responded to the complaint about  the clinical advice, and defended  
its actions. It has also provided information  for the organisation that Mrs B can 
escalate her concerns to if she remains unhappy. 
Ultimately, while I appreciate Mrs Bs reasoning and strength of feeling, Aviva  is not 
responsible for the clinical advice she received  the Back to Better supplier is. If 
she remains unhappy, she should  proceed with her complaint about the clinical 
advice she received through the appropriate  body.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint or recommend that 
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay any further  compensation  beyond the £250 it had 
already awarded.
Mrs B responded to my provisional decision and raised some points she wanted me to 
consider before coming to my final decision. In summary, she said:
she was offered a link for exercises  rather than a DVD as I stated in my provisional 
decision
the Aviva  member booklet  states  that it will arrange the most appropriate treatment 
but she feels they failed to do so, with long-lasting  implications  for her
if she made a claim on her home insurance  and the insurers  repairs were defective  
then its likely our service  would  hold the insurer  responsible  for this 
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So Im issuing my final decision.
Ref: DRN59511364my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional points  raised by Mrs B. Ill set out my thoughts below.
incorrect advice about MRI and Mrs Bs specialists hospital
Neither Mrs B nor Aviva  has raised  any further  points  regarding my findings on £250 
compensation Aviva has awarded for these issues. So for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think the amount Aviva  has offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
shortfall incurred by using specialist and particular chiropractor
Again, neither Mrs B nor Aviva has raised any further points regarding my findings on this 
issue. So for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont  think its 
unreasonable of Aviva  not to cover  these as they are specifically excluded under the policy 
terms.
clinical advice
Mrs B clearly  feels very strongly that Aviva  should be held accountable for the clinical advice 
she received from its Back to Better service. Shes  highlighted several passages from the 
policy booklet which state that it will arrange the most appropriate treatment.  She has 
emphasised that the wording refers to the Back to Better service and rehabilitation partners 
as, our Back to Better team and our rehabilitation partners.
I fully considered Mrs Bs policy wording  when coming to my provisional decision. Mrs Bs 
policy states:
Members are covered for eligible  treatment.  Eligible treatment  is treatment of an 
acute condition:
covered under the policy, including facilities, services and equipment
shown by current best available clinical evidence to improve  the member's  
health outcome,  at the time the member's treatment takes  place
appropriate for the member's individual care, including  how it is carried out, 
how long it continues  and how often it occurs
carried out by a health care professional, such as a specialist, who is qualified 
to provide the member's treatment  and to care for their condition
carried out in facilities where appropriate  clinical governance processes are in 
place at the time the member's treatment takes place, and
undertaken because the member needs  it for medical reasons
Ref: DRN59511365Mrs Bs claim was managed by Back to Better  Avivas musculoskeletal  clinical case 
management service. As I understand  it, Back  to Better appoints an independent  clinical 
case manager to assess the symptoms and determine whether treatment is necessary. 
I understand that Aviva (Back to Better)  specifies  which company (or companies) are able to 
provide the clinical advice.  But I dont  think that means that Aviva  is responsible  for the 
advice that is given. I think it is responsible for referring its customer (in this case  Mrs B) to a 
suitable expert to give advice. And by referring  Mrs B to the independent clinical  case  
manager, I think it met its responsibility to her. 
I appreciate Mrs Bs analogy to a property insurance  claim, but these  types of insurances 
operate differently. In this case, the independent  clinical advisor is a suitably qualified health  
care professional working for a company  who specialises in this type of advice. So I think  
they are responsible for the advice they gave, and not Aviva.   
I note that the company that provided  the independent clinical advice has disputed that the 
advice it provided  was incorrect/inappropriate  based on the symptoms Mrs B presented 
with. It has described the symptoms, explained the reasoning for the advice it gave and 
defended its position. It has also provided  the details of the organisation Mrs B can escalate 
her concerns  to if she remains unhappy  with its response to her complaint. 
Aviva isnt in a position to accept or defend  that the clinical advice was inappropriate as it 
wasnt the organisation that provided it. So if Mrs B wishes to continue  her complaint about  
the clinical advice  she received, I suggest she contacts the organisation that she has been 
referred her to by the company that provided  the advice  if she hasnt done so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I dont  uphold  Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5951136