K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2003. Mrs M says AXA France mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in November 2019 I explained  why I didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
AXA France  had to make  Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent 
before adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs M applied for the 
PPI but AXA France has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. The application form 
Mrs M completed  when she applied for her card had a separate section for PPI which Mrs M 
signed to accept the policy in addition to signing for the card itself.  So, I think  Mrs M would 
have been aware  the policy was optional, and she chose to have  it.
AXA France  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
to make her repayments. Which she said included statutory sick pay, and savings. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Ms limited sick pay, and for longer. And although 
Mrs M has told us she had savings at the time,  she initially  said she didnt have any savings. 
And when  we asked  for evidence to support the amount she had, Mrs M didnt  provide  
anything further.  So I am unable  to say how much Mrs M had in savings,  whether  her 
savings were instantly  accessible,  or if they were  set aside for something else.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
I gave Mrs M and AXA France  time to respond to my provisional decision,  but no further
information was provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither side responded with
anything further  for me to consider I see no reason to come  to a different  decision to that
explained above.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Ref: DRN58554052Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5855405