K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited  handled his post 
accident car repairs under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr K had an accident in which his car was damaged. Admiral arranged  for his car to be 
repaired by their approved repairing garage  (Admirals garage). Mr K complained to 
Admiral that Admirals garage  wasnt authorised  by his cars manufacturer,  they took too 
long, didnt repair his car properly  and left it with other problems. 
Admiral partly upheld his complaint. They accepted that thered  been some delay and so 
they offered  Mr K £250 compensation. They also paid in full for some of the repairs  Mr K 
said were still needed,  and offered to pay 50% of the cost of the others  which they said could 
not be shown  to be due to the accident  or their garage.  He remained unhappy  and brought 
his complaint to us.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ks complaint  should  be upheld  it as thought 
Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably.  Mr K didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral only have to pay for the damage caused by the accident, or by their garage,  and not 
any other damage which might have  already  existed. So, the issue I have to decide is 
whether it is more likely  than not that the accident or Admirals garage  caused all the issues  
Mr K claimed, looking at the evidence that has been  provided by both Mr K and Admiral. I 
dont intend to detail all of the issues with the car, but to focus  on whether Admiral are 
responsible for fixing them. Admiral  obtained an independent report which  said that some  of 
the issues were down to the accident or garage, so Admiral agreed to pay for their repair. 
But regarding some of the issues, the independent  report couldnt confirm either way. So 
Admiral agreed to pay for half the costs  of those. Admiral also offered him £250 
compensation for what they accepted were delays in their garage doing the repairs  and in 
their reviewing the report after they received  it.  
But Mr K wasnt  happy  and thought they should  pay for it all. He felt that the report  was not 
independent, as the assessor were also Admirals  loss adjusters. He hasnt  shown me 
persuasive evidence  of that being so, but even if he did, that doesnt mean that the report  
would be biased  as a business  can legitimately act in different and independent  capacities.  
The report  is detailed and deals  with each of the cars problems individually.  It considers 
alternative reasons  for those problems and is well reasoned. So I think  Admiral are entitled 
to rely on that report. And Mr K could have got his own independent report  but hasnt done  
so. 
Mr K said that the dashboard warning  lights which were not on before he took his car to the 
garage, were  on after they returned it. He felt that the disputed problems were  caused by the 
garage interfering with his cars  computer. He said the garage had admitted to him that they 
had touched his cars  computer, but later denied it. He said that Admiral promised to cover 
all the costs if it could  be proven  that their garage had touched the cars computer. But what  
Admiral said was that theyd agreed to cover the cost of a diagnostic at a later date once the 
Ref: DRN56236452work to the DSC sensor has been completed in the hope this helps us pinpoint  when the 
sensor developed a fault. If this then suggests  when the DSC sensor failed, I have agreed to 
cover the full costs  of the DSC sensor.
I interpret this to mean that at most Admiral would cover the full cost if it could be shown that 
the cause of the sensor failing was the accident  or the garage touching the computer, not 
merely if it could be shown that the garage did touch the computer. Mr K showed Admiral  an 
opinion from the manufacturer  dealer that the computer had been touched before they 
received it - but not how,  when,  or by whom.  So I dont think that takes Mr K much further. It 
doesnt prove that the garage  touched  the computer. But even if the garage did touch the 
computer, that doesnt  mean that doing  so caused the fault with the sensor or any other 
fault. Admiral said that they also took advice  from the manufacturer  dealer who thought that 
the accident didnt cause  the problem, and the issue most  likely lies with the fact the vehicle 
has been left for some  time, but he cannot  confirm  the exact cause. You confirmed your 
vehicle is garaged over the majority of the year. So I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Admiral to refuse to pay for all of the repairs.
Mr K also complained that Mr Ks garage  wasnt a manufacturer approved repairer.  It seems  
that he assumed  it to be manufacturer  approved, but Admiral didnt tell him otherwise. He 
thinks they should have told him and corrected his misassumption. But I dont think  that this 
was Admirals fault. And anyway the policy doesnt  say that Admiral will use only use 
manufacture approved  garages.  Thats clear and its not an uncommon term in motor  
insurance policies.  So I dont think that Admiral  did anything wrong there.  So overall, I am 
satisfied that Admiral didnt act unfairly or unreasonably to Mr K in paying only for damage 
which could be shown  to have arisen from the accident, and paying half of the rest. I can see 
he is frustrated by this situation  and that it was inconvenient for him not to have his car for 
longer then necessary but I think the compensation Admiral offered for this is not unfair,  and 
so I dont require  them to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5623645