K821x#15complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  repair  damage  to 
her roof as part of a subsidence  claim under her home insurance  policy.
background
In 2016 Miss H made a claim to RSA after noticing movement in her property. RSA 
accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle it. It underpinned  part of 
Miss Hs property. Miss H wanted damage to her roof to be repaired as part of her claim.
RSAs loss adjuster  said the damage  to the roof had only become apparent when trees  and 
ivy had been removed. He said from photos of the roof there was little evidence  to suggest 
that thered been any recent  movement  of the roof structure. He also didnt think the 
underpinning work would  have made the damage worse.
The loss adjuster thought  the roof had moved  because of inadequate  lateral  support to the 
gable walls with insufficient bracing to the roof structure as a whole. He said there was no 
evidence that the damage  to the roof was due to the subsidence movement. That meant 
repairs to the roof werent covered by Miss Hs policy.
Miss H appointed her own engineer to report on the damage to the roof. Her engineer  
thought the movement in the upper sections of the gable wall was connected with the 
movement in the house as a whole. He said the gable ends were structurally unsafe and 
needed to be rebuilt.
RSA reviewed the report but didnt change its decision.
Miss H brought  her complaint to this service.  Miss H produced  further evidence from her 
engineer that it was not and never had been normal practice to install  bracing within a 
traditional construction roof of Miss Hs type. He said the cause of movement couldnt be 
inadequate lateral support, or otherwise every  other  traditional construction roof would lean 
over. 
RSA proposed that a third engineer be appointed to give their opinion on this. In the 
meantime Miss H appointed another engineer to report on the roof. The engineer inspected 
the roof in June 2019. He also thought  the roof had been damaged  as a result of the 
movement in the foundations and walls.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
When making a decision on a complaint I usually consider  matters  as they stood at the time 
the financial business issued its final response  to the complaint. However, occasionally its 
impractical to do so  for instance because the situation has moved  on or further 
evidence/information has come to 
If Id reviewed this complaint at the point  where  there were two conflicting opinions, I might  
well have been inclined to require RSA to obtain  a third expert opinion. But, as I mentioned 
above, occasionally I need to consider the circumstances as they currently stand. And in 
this case it seems to me that there is now clear and persuasive technical evidence  that the 
Ref: DRN50419382damage to the roof has been  caused by the subsidence damage to the foundations and 
walls of the property.
I say that because in August 2018 Miss Hs engineer said the house was sloping from top 
left to bottom  right, that is from the north-west down  to the south-east.  He noted that:
A timber which has been inserted between  the ridge and the gable  wall shows no 
indication of any movement between the timber  and the wall and it is clear  that the roof 
has moved with the top of the south gable .
He concluded:
It is our view that movement in the gables  above  eaves level is associated with 
movement of the house as a whole and the clear active movements seen in both gable  
walls below.
And in June 2019 Miss Hs second  engineer said:
Movement within the foundations will undoubtedly have caused distortion of the masonry  
of the gables and front and rear walls, and forces generated will be transferred to the roof 
trusses resulting  in the racking of the rafters.
I am persuaded by her experts reports that in all likelihood the roof of the house is 
moving in line with and as a result of the movement in the gable walls of her property and 
that this amounts to subsidence  damage.
I also think Miss Hs engineers have convincingly explained why the opinion of RSAs  loss 
adjuster, that the roof had moved  as a result of being built without being properly 
supported, is likely to be incorrect.
In order to treat Miss H fairly  I am minded to say that RSA should accept that the roof of 
Miss Hs property has suffered subsidence damage  and should be repaired as part of her 
claim. If thats also my final decision, Miss Hs second engineers report  will have changed 
the course of this claim.  For that reason I think RSA ought to pay the cost of that report 
plus interest.
Miss H accepted my provisional decision. 
RSA arranged a further inspection. It said there appeared  to be historical and ongoing 
movement and evidence  of faulty  or inadequate workmanship dating from the removal  of the 
chimneys which predated  the policy. It offered to pay half the cost of the repairs to that 
element. It suggested that Miss H allow the claim for the insured works to proceed and it 
would let her know  of any works that werent  covered by her policy as the work proceeded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50419383This complaint was about the refusal  by RSA to pay for repairs to Miss Hs roof. However 
RSAs latest building surveyor was asked by RSA to report  on the damage to the property  
giving particular  consideration to the left hand  flank wall. If anything,  his report  makes  me 
more convinced that its unfair of RSA not to repair Miss Hs roof. Thats because  the 
building surveyor looked at photos which were  said to have  been  taken in the 1980s and 
1990s. They  showed that the chimneys  had been  removed and roof ties were in place. He 
said there was no evidence of distortion or damage  to the left hand flank  wall at that time. 
In view of the fact that theres no evidence that the roof ties were causing a problem before 
the subsidence damage started, Im not persuaded that the damage to the roof would  have 
happened but for the subsidence.  I think its more likely that, as in the opinion of Miss Hs 
engineer, the movement  of the foundations has caused the distortion of the walls and that 
has transferred upwards  to the roof. It follows that I remain of the opinion  that in order to 
treat Miss H fairly RSA should repair her roof as part of her claim.
Theres a limit of £150,000 on the amount of compensation that I can require RSA to pay in 
relation to this complaint. Interest, costs  and interest on costs  (if awarded) are in addition.  If I 
think that fair compensation might  be more than £150,000, I can recommend that RSA pays 
the balance  but my recommendation wont be binding  on RSA even if Miss H accepts my 
final decision  within the time limit. From  what I know so far, Miss Hs claim might involve an 
amount over £150,000. 
RSA hasnt commented on my proposal that it should pay the cost of Miss Hs second 
engineers report  since it has changed the course  of this claim. So I remain of the view 
that RSA ought  to pay the cost of that report plus interest.
my final decision
award
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc:
to repair Miss Hs roof as part of her subsidence claim. I should  make it clear that I 
consider this to be a direction and not a money award.  However the effect  of this direction 
is that Miss Hs subsidence claim will be subject to the £150,000 limit on a money award. 
to pay for her second engineers report plus simple interest* at the rate of 8 per cent from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
recommendation
In so far as any costs  for the repairs referred  to above exceed our limit of £150,000, I 
recommend that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc meets  these costs.  
My recommendation is not part of my decision  or award. It is up to Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc, even if Miss H accepts  my final decision, whether or not to follow my 
recommendation. If it chooses not to and Miss H has accepted  my final decision,  its unlikely 
that shed be able to go to court in respect of any recommended  amount that Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc chose not to pay. Miss H may want  to take legal advice before 
deciding whether or not to accept  this final decision. 
Ref: DRN50419384Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Miss H a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5041938