K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simpler, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy  Mr M took out in April 2004. It was 
added to his account when he applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr M is mainly  concerned that he mightnt  have  been able to claim on the 
policy in all the circumstances  he wouldve  expected. He also said that if the costs 
versus benefits and the policys optional nature had been made clear, then he wouldve 
declined the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
FICL has provided a copy of Mr Ms card application.  Mr M has signed in the PPI part of the 
form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
CoverPlease debit  my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice.  So, 
although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mr M to say if he wanted to have PPI added on. And he 
couldve left this part of the form blank or crossed it out if he hadnt wanted to take out PPI (as 
he did other sections of the form offering benefits he wasnt interested in).
Mr M signed the completed  application.  On balance,  based  on what Ive seen, I think FICL 
made it clear  the policy was optional and Mr M chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI policy to Mr M. But FICL still had to give Mr M enough 
information about the policy for him to be able to decide if he wanted it or not.
I dont know if the information  FICL gave Mr M about  the PPI was as clear as it shouldve 
been  including the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But based  on what I know  about  Mr Ms 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. 
Mr M was eligible  for the policy. The policy didnt cover some  things.  But it doesnt look like 
that wouldve  affected Mr M. So, I dont think more information about the policy exclusions 
and limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Ms decision to take out PPI. 
Ref: DRN58943752Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid. But 
Mr M couldnt safely rely on this happening  when he took out the PPI. Relying  on an 
employer to pay sick pay when it doesnt  have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI 
which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a successful  claim.  The policy couldve 
paid out a benefit for as long as Mr M was off work  sick, clearing his card balance in full if he 
wasnt ever well enough to return to work. The policy  also provided cover if Mr M lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think  Mr M couldve benefitted from having PPI if 
hed needed  to claim.
Mr M chose  to take out the policy when he didnt  have  to  so he seems  to have wanted it 
and been happy to pay for it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable for him when  he took the policy out. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr M, I think it unlikely he wouldve been 
put off taking out the policy if clearer information had been provided. On balance, I think hed 
still have taken it out. This means  I dont think that Mr M has lost out as a result  of anything 
FICL did wrong. So it doesnt need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5894375