K821x#15complaint
Miss T has complained about Sabre Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Sabre includes their agents.
background
Miss T had a telematics (commonly referred  to as a black box) policy  with Sabre which she 
took out in June 2017. The cost of the premium was around £2,500. In April 2018, one of the 
named drivers on the policy was involved in a fault accident. The accident happened in a 
different city to where the policy address was. 
As part of their validation  checks, Sabre found  out from the black box data that the car was 
kept by Miss T at an address other  than the policy address since  early September 2017 in a 
different city. Sabre said that Miss T should have told them about the other address at which 
point they would have amended her policy and charged her a higher premium. They said the 
other address had a higher risk rating.
Sabre amended the policy and asked Miss T to pay an additional  premium  of £1,097.60. 
They said that was calculated from September 2017  when the car was mainly  kept at the 
other address. Sabre  said that the total loss settlement figure for Miss Ts car was £1,820. 
They said they wrote  to Miss T and told her she could either pay the additional premium or 
they could deduct it from her settlement.  Sabre  said when  they didnt hear from Miss T, they 
went ahead  and deducted the additional premium and the £600 excess from the settlement. 
They paid the balance of £ £122.40 to Miss T.
Miss T didnt think that was fair, so she complained.  But Sabre didnt uphold  her complaint.
Miss T brought her complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He said 
that Sabre shouldnt have taken the additional  premium from Miss Ts settlement as that 
wasnt something that was allowed under the law. He said that Sabre should have dealt with 
the claim arising from the accident proportionately.  By that he meant they should  have 
worked out what percentage of the correct premium  Miss T had actually paid and limit their 
settlement of the claim to that percentage. So he suggested that Sabre do that and refund 
Miss T £724.28. He also suggested Sabre pay Miss T £100 compensation. 
Sabre said that the adjudicators reasoning that Miss T would have been  better off if they 
had dealt with the claim  proportionately was based  on the claim being limited  to the total loss 
of her car. And if that were the case, then she would have been  better  off by Sabre applying 
a proportionate settlement. But given there was also the third party  claim that was over 
£7,000, Sabre said that if they dealt with the claim proportionately then Miss T would have 
ended up paying  substantially more than the additional premium  of £1,097.60. Our 
adjudicator agreed  with Sabre that even  though  they hadnt done  things properly, imposing 
the additional premium on Miss T meant she was financially better  off than Sabre  settling the 
claim proportionately. So he changed his view and said Sabre didnt have to make a refund 
to Miss T, although he still felt they should  pay her £100 compensation.
As neither Sabre  nor Miss T agreed  with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN58583232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im only upholding this 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Miss T has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all of those very carefully. 
But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is to decide 
if Sabre have dealt  with Miss T in a fair and reasonable  way.
Sabre have said that Miss T not disclosing that the car was kept at a different address from 
September 2017 onwards  amounted to, what  is known in the insurance  industry, a careless  
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such  a situation. 
It says that where  a claim on the policy has been  made, if an insurer  would have charged a 
higher premium had they known about a fact that hadnt been disclosed, they may reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on the claim. By that I mean they could  work  out what 
percentage of the correct premium Miss T actually paid and limit their settlement of any 
claim to that percentage.
But I have to first be satisfied that Miss T made a careless misrepresentation. When she 
took out the policy she gave Sabre details of the policy address. Miss Ts policy says:
"You should always keep  us informed of any changes that may affect your insurance.
Examples of changes  that may affect  your cover are: [] change  of address or where  
the vehicle is kept"
When the policy started Sabre sent Miss T documentation which included a document called 
Statement of Insurance. That document confirmed the information  Miss T had given when 
taking out the policy  and said Sabre  had based  their premium on the information  she 
provided. It went on to say she should  check  the details carefully and tell Sabre of any 
changes which could  affect the Insurers assessment of risk. At the bottom  of the first page 
there was a question  that asked if the car was normally kept away from your home  
address? If yes, give full details. The answer  by that question was no. 
So it was clear from the documentation  that the address at which the car was kept was 
important and that it could have an impact  on Sabres  assessment of risk, and thereby the 
cost of the premium.  While I understand from Miss T that she was effectively living out of two 
addresses in two different cities, the data from the black box showed that between 
September 2017 and April 2018, when the accident happened,  the car was mainly kept at 
the other address and not at the policy  address. So I think she should  have told Sabre about 
it. Im therefore satisfied that there  was a careless misrepresentation.
Im satisfied that had Sabre known that the car was being kept at the other address from 
September 2017, they would have  charged  Miss T the additional premium. Had she told 
them about  it then,  they would have  told her the cost of the additional premium and she 
would have had the option  of either  paying it to continue her full cover, or cancelling  the 
policy and finding  cover elsewhere.  
Sabre only found  out about  the other address once a claim had been  made.  And under 
CIDRA, the only remedy available to them was to settle the claim  (both Miss Ts and the 
third partys  claims)  proportionately. I understand that the third partys total claim was settled 
Ref: DRN58583233for approximately  £8,000.  That included  the total loss of their car; personal injury; hire car; 
and other  costs. And the total loss claim for Miss Ts car was £1,820.  So had Sabre dealt 
with the claim proportionately, Miss T would have  been asked to pay around a third of the 
total of around  £10,000, which is the approximate combined total of both parties claims. So 
while deducting the additional premium  from Miss Ts settlement was something Sabre 
wasnt entitled to do under  CIDRA, by doing  that they provided her with full cover  and settled  
the claim in full. I understand why Miss T is not happy because  she feels  she has lost out on 
a big part of her settlement,  but I think Sabres action has meant  she has been  protected 
from having to pay substantially more had there been a proportionate settlement. 
The information Ive seen suggests  that at the time they deducted the additional  premium  
from Miss Ts settlement,  Sabre were aware  that the total claim they were going to have to 
settle was going to be substantially higher  than the additional premium.  And they have told 
me that they consciously  chose the option  that was less costly for Miss T. But I think  they 
should have explained that to Miss T, but they didnt. If they had explained  what CIDRA says 
and how paying  the additional premium would have been less costly for her than settling the 
whole claim proportionately, I think it would have helped Miss T to better  understand what  
was happening.  So I feel it is appropriate  for me to require Sabre to pay Miss T £100 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience she experienced because of the lack of 
information and clarity  from Sabre.  
premium calculation
Miss T said that the additional  premium she was charged for keeping the car at the other 
address was excessive  and unfair.  She said that she did her own research and got 
information from other insurers which suggested the other  address was a lower risk than the 
policy address.
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of risk 
rating factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and the 
likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking  at many different factors.  It might 
help if I give just a few examples of the hundreds  of factors insurers  consider: the type of car 
insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; the policyholders age; the type 
of licence the policyholder  has; the length  of time the car has been  owned; the number of 
years the policyholder has been  driving; and past driving incidents the policyholder  has been 
involved in. But its not down to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account 
when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter  of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  policies on 
offer, and not something we would  usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the same risk is 
because insurers have  different views on risk. So, different insurers give differing levels of 
importance to different  factors. For example,  one insurer might consider the location where a 
car is kept to be a high risk area and therefore  charge a higher premium  to reflect that risk. 
But another insurer might not consider that particular area to be high risk, so their premium  
Ref: DRN58583234might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using statistics  and other  data. In Miss Ts 
case, the other address  she kept the car at from September 2017 was considered  by Sabre 
to be a higher  risk than the policy address. As insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, 
I dont think theres anything wrong with insurers considering whether or not a certain area 
where a car is kept falls into a higher risk grouping  and so wish to charge a higher premium 
to cover that risk. 
Sabre provided  me with information to show how Miss Ts additional premium was 
calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Miss T. And that 
is also why Sabre didnt  share it with her, which I know  must  have  been  frustrating. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Sabre treated Miss T in the same way as they 
would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated her additional 
premium reasonably. So I think Sabre have acted  reasonably in doing so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Sabre Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Miss T £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Miss T has accepted 
my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
 
1 If Sabre consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss T how much they have taken off. They should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5858323