K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about four instalment loans that she took out with Gain  Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, (LS).  She said, in summary, that LS shouldnt have given her 
the loans as they were unaffordable.   
background
This complaint is about four short term loans LS provided to Miss W between  August 2018 
and November 2018. All the loans have been repaid. The loans were repayable by six 
monthly instalments.  Miss Ws lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 26/8/18 23/10/18 £250
2. 12/10/18 23/10/18 £150
3. 9/11/18 22/12/18 £450
4. 21/11/18 30/11/18 £50
Miss W said that LS should have realised from the number of times she borrowed that her 
debt problems were  getting  worse  and she was becoming dependent on her next loan. 
Miss W also said that LS should have noticed many other loans on her credit file. She also 
had gambling  problems at the time.
LS said that it had carried out proper and proportionate affordability checks at the time that 
each loan was approved.  It had asked Miss W for her income and expenditure. It had used 
national average  amounts  for expenses and revised Miss Ws stated expenditure upwards 
and this still resulted  in a viable disposable income.  LS had also made checks with the credit 
reference agency (CRA) and the CRA  confirmed  a rating which  was satisfactory  for all the 
loan obligations.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld  in part. He 
concluded that Loan 4 shouldnt have been  given to Miss W. He said that proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that Miss W was having problems managing her money. He 
thought that LS would  have become  aware  that Miss W was using a significant  amount of 
money on gambling and that she had at least three outstanding other loans. So it was 
unlikely that she would  have been unable to sustainably repay Loan 4.
LS agreed with the adjudicators assessment.
Miss W disagreed. She said that it was also unfair for LS to lend the first three loans 
because of the increasing amounts  over a short period of time. She hadnt  repaid Loan 1 
when she took out Loan 2. Then just after repaying  Loan 2, she borrowed  Loan 3 which was 
for the higher amount of £450.  Miss W said that a red flag should have been shown for 
someone with her income and probably low credit  score.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss W 
and to LS on 4 February 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN57340982As LS had agreed  to settle Loan 4, I said that I wouldnt investigate the affordability of this 
loan, but would include LSs proposed redress for this loan in my award.
I noted that when  LS lent to Miss W the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that LS needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that LS was required to establish whether Miss W could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ws complaint.
LS had made a number of checks before it lent to Miss W. It had asked  her for details of her 
income and expenditure. Miss Ws declared monthly income was between £950  and £1,000  
Ref: DRN57340983for all the loans. Miss W had declared  her monthly  expenditure as between £400  and £475  
for the loans  but LS had increased the expenditure amounts to between  £564 and £614. 
LS said that it had also checked Miss Ws credit  file before agreeing  to the loans but it hadnt 
provided this service with the results of its checks.  So I wasnt  aware  of any information on 
LSs credit checks  that I thought should have  caused additional concerns to LS.
Id seen Miss Ws credit report and noted  that this showed a number of payday loans. But I 
was aware that when  a lender carried out a credit  search, the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday  and short  
term lenders reported to the same credit  reference  agencies. So, not all of Miss Ws 
accounts might have been  identified by LSs credit  check. So, this might have explained any 
differences between  the information provided by LSs credit check  and Miss Ws actual 
situation.
Regarding Loans 1 and 2, I could see that the repayments that Miss W needed to make 
were relatively modest compared to the income that shed declared  to LS. The highest 
repayment amount  payable  for Loan 1 was £67.69. And when Miss W took out Loan 2, 
Loan 1 was still payable for another five months. This meant that shed need to make  for 
both loans a total of £113.09 for the highest repayments. I didnt think  the repayment 
amounts for Loans 1 and 2 were so large  that its obvious they wouldve caused  Miss W 
financial difficulty.
So given Miss Ws repayment amounts for Loans  1 and 2, that these were her first loans 
with LS and what  was apparent about  her circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve 
been proportionate for LS to have asked her for the amount of information that would have 
been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss W had provided or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think LS was wrong to give Loans  1 and 2 to 
Miss W.
Miss W had repaid both Loans 1 and 2 early. Loan 2, which was due to be repaid over six 
months, was repaid  after just 11 days.  I thought this behaviour might have caused LS some 
concerns. And I thought it might have been more  concerned when Miss W applied  for a loan 
of £1,500 just 17 days  later. LS appeared to have  been concerned about this as it provided 
Miss W with the significantly smaller  loan amount of £450. The highest monthly loan 
repayment was £139.12 which was more  than the total repayment amounts shed needed to 
make on Loans 1 and 2 combined. And Miss W was committing to making the repayments 
over six months. I could also see that LS had increased the amount of Miss Ws declared 
expenditure so it was aware that it couldnt  rely on the amount shed declared. And as
Miss W was borrowing  her third loan from LS in around ten weeks (with only a 17 day break 
from borrowing in that period), I thought the lender might have been concerned that Miss W 
was becoming reliant on its loans.  I thought  all this might have been seen as an indication  of 
potential financial difficulties and should  have prompted LS to do some additional checks  
such as asking Miss W for more information about  her short  term borrowing. As far as I 
could see it didnt do this.
Ref: DRN57340984So I needed  to think about what LS wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks.  
Had it done so, its likely  that LS wouldve learnt  that Miss W had at least  six other 
outstanding short term loans with repayments of around £900 repayable at the same time as 
Loan 3. Id seen these  on Miss Ws bank statements and credit report. I thought  if LS had 
made proportionate  checks, it would have been  clear to it that Miss W was facing significant 
problems managing her money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 3 in a sustainable  
manner. So I didnt  think LS should  have given Miss W loan 3.
 
Subject to any further representations by Miss W or LS my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  LS to put things right as 
follows:
 
putting things right  what LS needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on Loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on the refunds  from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove all adverse  entries about  Loans 3 and 4 from Miss Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Miss W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Miss W responded to my provisional decision to say she agreed with what  Id said and had 
nothing more to add.
LS responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed  to provide the redress  set out 
in that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Miss W and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require LS to pay Miss W some  compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Gain Credit  LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss W paid on Loans 3 and 4;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds  from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and
3.Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 3 and 4 from Miss Ws credit  file.
Ref: DRN57340985*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Miss W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5734098