K820x#14complaint
Mrs A brings this complaint on behalf of the estate  of her late father, Mr A. She was 
appointed executor of his estate following his death  in early 2017.  Mrs A complains that 
National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt  explained the closure and withdrawal of money  from 
her fathers account while he was alive; she believes  he didnt make  or authorise those 
actions.  
background
Mr A had two accounts with NatWest. The banks records indicate that in January 2013  both 
accounts were closed and the overall balance of over £60,000 was withdrawn from Mr As 
branch. 
Mr A died early in 2017 and Mrs A obtained probate in May 2018. She lives abroad and 
instructed solicitors in the UK to assist with Mr As estate. For several years  before his death 
Mr A had lived in a care home. It wasnt therefore  until 2018   some years  after the account 
closures and associated account  movements   that any query  was made about them.  
When NatWest was asked about  the account  movements at the time of their closure, it 
wasnt able to provide  very much information.  The accounts had, it said, been closed some 
years earlier,  and so it had only limited records. It did say, however, that the focus at the 
time would have been on identifying its customer and ensuring that the withdrawal had been 
properly authorised. Its records indicate  that the withdrawal  was signed for and approved by 
two members of staff, but little else. It didnt have any record of a power  of attorney on the 
accounts.
Mrs A said that her father  couldnt  have  made  the withdrawal  himself. He had been in a care 
home since 2008 and, by early 2013  was very limited in the activities  he could carry out. She 
also said that a family  friend helped Mr A out with his pension payments (which  went  into a 
Post Office  account), but that person didnt have access to Mr As NatWest accounts.  
NatWest didnt agree that the account movements and withdrawal were unauthorised, and 
so Mrs A referred the matter to this service. She noted that there  was little information 
available, but thought  it more likely  than not that the withdrawal had been authorised by Mr 
A. Mrs A didnt  accept  the investigators  conclusions, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
As Ive explained, the evidence available is very limited. Thats not meant  as a criticism of 
anyone involved,  but is simply the result of the passage of more  than five years between  the 
account closure and withdrawal and Mrs A finding  out about  them.  I wouldnt expect a bank  
to keep complete  information about a transaction for that long,  and even less so if the 
account had been closed.  
I note that Mr A doesnt appear to have raised any issues about the withdrawal or closure of 
his accounts during  his lifetime. I dont take that to mean that he either made  the withdrawal 
or authorised someone else to do so; in the circumstances, I cant  rule out the possibility that 
Ref: DRN53171142he knew nothing about it. It does mean  however  that NatWest didnt know  there might be a 
problem and wasnt therefore able to investigate  properly when more evidence  would have 
been available.  
When Mrs A first referred this matter to us, she framed  it largely as a complaint about 
NatWests inability to explain  what had happened. I can however understand why it wasnt 
able to do that in as much detail as she would have liked. In looking at the complaint, 
however, the investigator also considered whether  Mr A had authorised the withdrawal. She 
concluded it was more likely than not that Mr A did authorise it  even if he hadnt  actually 
made the withdrawal  himself. 
This service isnt bound  by the same  rules of evidence as a court  would be  for example, in 
respect of who has to prove what. Generally, however, a bank has to show  that it had 
authority to debit an account. Against that, it is Mr As estate that has said that he didnt  
authorise the withdrawal   and its usually for the party  alleging  something to prove it. 
There is, as Ive explained, little evidence either way in this case.  But it does seem to me 
that NatWests ability  to put its case has been damaged  again, for understandable reasons 
 by the delay in bringing this complaint. In the circumstances,  I dont believe it would be fair 
to make a finding that the withdrawal was unauthorised and therefore to require the bank to 
compensate Mr As estate. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve the estates complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A (on behalf of Mr As estate) to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317114