K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Oakbrook Finance Limiteds decision to hold him responsible for a loan 
when he says he was the victim  of identity theft.
background
I set out the background  to this case in my provisional decision.  I wont  repeat all of that 
detail here.  Ive included a copy of that provisional  decision  at the end of this document  and 
it forms part of my final decision.
Oakbrook accepted my provisional decision and had nothing more to add.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. He didnt  have any more evidence or information 
to present and didnt  respond to any of the specific points Id set out. He pointed to the fact 
other businesses involved  had decided not to hold him liable. He also described  some 
mental health problems hes been  going through for some time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having taken account of the responses to 
my provisional decision Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
As with the background to this case,  my findings and reasoning  were  set out in detail in my 
provisional decision. And given the limited  responses from both parties theres no need for 
me to go over that detail again.
Im sorry  to hear of the problems Mr S is experiencing  with his health.  Its always sad to hear 
of someone struggling  with their health as well as their financial situation. But Im afraid  Mr S 
health and circumstances dont change the facts and the outcome of the case.
It might be hes able to work  with Oakbrook to find a mutually agreeable way of settling the 
outstanding debt. He should  contact it to discuss the possibilities here. 
I said in my provisional decision that the decisions of other businesses wont alter the 
outcome of my investigation. Ive based  my findings  on the evidence to hand and I have to 
give a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint against Oakbrook.  And Im unable to 
uphold Mr S complaint  in that regard.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint against  Oakbrook Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59834922provisional decision
complaint by: Mr S
complaint about: OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED
complaint reference:
date of decision:
Ive considered the relevant information about  Mr Ss complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so 
far, I dont intend to uphold it.
Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence that I get by 19 March 2020.  But unless the 
information changes  my mind, my final decision is likely to be along  the following lines.  
Final decisions  will be published on our website.  So that Mr S cant  be identified,  Ill call him 
Mr S.
Ref: DRN59834923complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Oakbrook Finance Limiteds decision to hold him responsible for a loan 
when he says he was the victim  of identity theft.
Other loans were  applied  for with different lenders and Mr S current  account was also 
affected. Although  not the subject  of this complaint, Ill be referring  to some of those loans 
and the current  account throughout this provisional decision as they provide important 
information about the wider circumstances. But Ill not mention with whom  the loans or 
accounts are held as they arent  who this complaint  is against.
background
Mr S says hes been the victim of identity theft.  There have been a number of different loans 
taken out in his name, none  of which he knows  anything  about. He says his current  account 
has also been subject  to fraud. Its from that account the proceeds from this loan (and the 
others) were paid and subsequently spent.
Mr S opened  his current account  in September 2018. Hes told us he didnt intend  to use it 
for day to day spending; it was for saving. Hes told us he didnt use the account  before the 
fraud occurred. He received the bank  card but not the associated  PIN. Mr S has told us he 
kept the card in his car, along with his drivers licence. He later discovered the card had 
been stolen. His drivers  licence remained  in his possession.
The loan with Oakbrook was applied  for on 15 November 2018. But the activity  Mr S has 
disputed started earlier  than that. He told us (and the various businesses involved) that hed 
not authorised  any activity  on his current account from 7 November 2018 and all loans 
applied for from thereon were fraudulent.
The current  account  activity includes:
the disputed  loans being  paid in;
withdrawals of cash in branch using the card and PIN;
withdrawals of cash from ATMs using the card and PIN;
online banking payments to a company Ill call E; and
receipt of payments  from E.
Mr S says he became  aware of the fraud  when  he received a letter from one of the lenders 
which confirmed an application  in his name. He knew hed not applied and so started looking 
into what had happened. Its from here he discovered the activity on his current  account  and 
all the loan applications.
When Mr S reported the dispute to his bank  it initially declined his claim as it couldnt 
understand how someone could have come to learn his PIN. Mr S then obtained evidence to 
show that his post had been re-directed. He said that too had been the act of fraudsters  and 
he thought it meant the PIN had gone elsewhere. His bank then agreed to uphold  his claim 
and refunded £500 to him. 
Other lenders have also accepted Mr S fraud claim and are no longer holding him liable  for 
the debt.
Ref: DRN59834924Mr S reported his ID theft claim to Oakbrook and it carried out its own investigation. It 
reviewed the application  in Mr S name  and contacted some of the other business that were 
involved. It decided  to hold Mr S liable for loan.  It believed Mr S had applied for the loan 
himself. It said:
personal details  on the application matched  Mr S although contact information was 
different;
a copy of Mr S drivers licence had been  supplied;
wage slips in Mr Ss name had been supplied;
it wasnt satisfied with Mr S explanation  of how the loan proceeds were  spent form 
his current account;
his current account provider initially declined his fraud claim.
Mr S was unhappy with Oakbrooks decision and so brought the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. He acknowledged 
some of the key arguments Mr S had and could see that his post had been redirected. He 
also noted that all of the other businesses had not held Mr S liable.
Oakbrook disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review the case. Its now been passed  to 
me. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to uphold it. 
I must make my decision based on what I think is more  likely than not to have happened. I 
dont think it would have  been possible for all of this activity to have taken place without 
Mr S involvement, at least to some  degree. And given  his version of events, which  Im afraid 
I dont find reliable, I can only conclude  that hes authorised the activity.
I should say here that the decisions of other  businesses to write off debts or refund money 
has little bearing  on my decision.  I must  consider the evidence as I have it. I wont  say 
Oakbrook should  write off the loan because others have  chosen to do so. Those decisions 
dont mean  Mr S didnt  authorise the activity, only that hes not being held responsible by 
those businesses. 
the activity on the current account 
Im not persuaded that Mr S didnt receive  his PIN. It was sent within a day of his card at 
most and so it seems  unlikely it would have gone  elsewhere. Mr S received his card without  
issue and so I consider  its more  likely  than not he would have received his PIN. 
I accept there was a mail redirect on Mr S address. But I can also see that wasnt  in effect at 
the time the card and PIN were sent. Thats clear from Mr S own bank statement which 
confirms when the redirect was paid for, 30 October 2018. Thats a month after the account  
was opened and the card and PIN sent. So it couldnt have meant  the PIN was sent 
elsewhere, meaning theres no explanation  for how someone obtained it. I dont  believe 
someone intercepted  the PIN in some other way given when it was sent and when Mr S says 
the fraud started.
Ref: DRN59834925Im also mindful that had someone obtained  Mr S PIN it would have  meant that he left the 
non-receipt of it unreported for several  months. I cant see a reason he wouldnt have 
reported it as missing, even if he didnt intend  to use the account regularly. And the 
timeframe also means that, had someone  intercepted it, they would have  held onto it for 
more than a month before  engaging in the disputed activity. That doesnt seem  particularly  
likely.
Mr S has told us, his bank and the lenders that the disputed activity started on 7 November 
2018. But its clear  there  are payments to and from E  one of the key parties involved in Mr 
S claim   more than a week  before that. Those payments start as early as 29 October 2018 
and theres also one on 26 October  2018 thats  to a different person but with exactly  the 
same reference. So it seems likely the same  person  has been  carrying  out all this activity.  
And the postal redirect, as Ive said, is paid for from Mr S account on 30 October 2018. So 
the disputed period must have started as early  as 26 October  2018.  Its possible  Mr S got his 
dates wrong. But I have to keep in mind he would have had to get it wrong multiple times 
and never  have noticed the earlier activity on his account. That doesnt seem  likely in the 
circumstances and Id expect someone  thats been  the victim of fraud to be very clear about  
any activity that wasnt  them.  
If Mr S is saying  this earlier activity wasnt him, it directly ties him to the later disputed 
activity. 
Mr S told his bank there were two transactions not in dispute: a £5,000 payment in  which  
he said were his wages   and a £4,500 withdrawal. This is why his bank refunded  £500 to 
him; its the difference between  payments in and out which  he confirmed as genuine in 
amongst the disputed  activity. There are a couple of concerns I have with this.
First, it means  hes told us, Oakbrook  and others  a different version of events to his bank. It 
seems strange that he would do so and I cant think why his story would change.
Second, it seems to directly conflict with what hes said happened. The withdrawal of £4,500 
he confirmed as genuine was in a branch  of his bank, over the counter.  Thats  more than 
likely going to have  required  his card and PIN to authorise.  And yet hes separately said the 
card was lost and he never received  his PIN.
That same branch withdrawal also seems  to take place on the same day as a separately  
disputed one, carried out in exactly the same way.
Theres also an issue with Mr S saying that the £5,000 payment in was genuine as hes 
claimed it as fraudulent  elsewhere. The only £5,000 in I can see is from one of the loans hes 
later gone  on to claim as fraudulent. 
These points mean that Mr S cant have  told all parties the truth about whats happened. The 
different versions  of events cant possibly all be accurate. And it doesnt seem like they can 
be simple oversights either as they directly conflict with each other. Im afraid this calls into 
question Mr S entire version  of events and leaves  me questioning his credibility.
postal redirect
Mr S says this was fraudulently applied for and he had no knowledge of it. But that in itself is 
difficult to accept, for several  reasons. The first being the payment for it comes  out of his 
own account. Its possible an unknown  fraudster might have used Mr S account to pay for 
Ref: DRN59834926the redirect, having obtained  his card, but it seems somewhat  unlikely. Doing so would  mean 
there was a transaction on Mr S account  that he could  easily  notice at any time and realise 
that a) his card was missing and b) that someone  had paid for a postal redirect  (its quite 
clearly stated on the account  statement  thats  what its for). That could  easily have alerted 
him to the fact his post wasnt  being  sent to his normal address.
I also have to consider  how someone  might have actually put such a redirect in place. Ive 
looked at the requirements to do so online and a customer would need a proof of name and 
a proof  of address. It might have  been possible for a fraudster  to already have Mr S card,  
which would have been an acceptable proof of name. But theyd also require  a proof of 
address in the form of a recent utility bill (not mobile  phone) or bank statement. Again, that 
wouldnt be impossible to obtain, but theres  a decreasing  likelihood  of it being  achievable.  
Itd mean  the need to steal something from Mr S normal post whilst it was being sent to his 
actual address. I note Mr S home  address has a letterbox  in the door, meaning all post 
would be delivered  into the house and it wouldnt be possible for someone to break into an 
external post box. That again  makes  it less likely that someone has been able to intercept 
his post.
Mr S has shared several  letters with us to support his claim. One of those is from Royal Mail 
and it confirms the post redirect. I mentioned  earlier that other parties  accepting  fraud may 
have taken place  doesnt mean it definitely has. I mention that here as Royal Mail do say 
that the redirect was fraudulent. But it seems to me, based on other evidence, that Mr S 
must have  been  aware of the redirect in some way. 
The letter from Royal  Mail is from January 2019 and it confirms the redirect has been 
cancelled. It also apologises  for the delay in having that arranged. And so it appears  as 
though the redirect remained in place  until on or around the day the letter  was sent.  That 
then leaves the question of how Mr S was able to receive a number of other  letters.  The 
correspondence hes provided us includes letters sent at the end of November 2018 and 
others in December too. Mr S has confirmed he received these.  But its difficult to see how 
that would  be possible with the redirect in place. I dont consider it more likely  that these 
particular letters somehow slipped through the redirect.
the application with Oakbrook
I agree  that some  of the details on the loan agreement dont match  what  Mr S has provided 
to us. The phone number and email address dont seem to be his normal ones. But the rest 
of the detail does match. 
Oakbrook have also provided  copies of the wage slips and drivers licence supplied at the 
point of application. The wage slips state  Mr S employer is E, the company involved in the 
sending and receiving  of money to Mr S current account. Mr S has said he doesnt work 
there and has provided evidence  to support that. I can see he does seem  to receive a salary 
from a different employer.  But the wage slips do also have Mr S genuine national  insurance 
number. And I cant see how an unknown fraudster would have been able to obtain  such 
detail.
Ref: DRN59834927Mr S drivers licence was provided to Oakbrook, or at least a photo  of it. So someone  was 
able to access the licence  which was still in Mr S possession  and take a photo of it. Mr S 
has previously suggested that someone must  have  been able to gain access  to it from his 
car and take a photo without him noticing. But that does seem unlikely as, having seen it, its 
clear the photo  wasnt taken in a car; it looks to be on top of a desk  or something similar. So 
it wasnt a case of someone quickly taking the photo  whilst  Mr S was perhaps out of the car. 
I have further concerns  with the drivers licence. Oakbrook had contacted  some  of the other 
lenders. One of these confirmed their identification procedures and confirmed they also 
require a copy of the customers ID. But they require that the customer take a selfie with the 
ID in it so they can make sure it matches.  Oakbrook were satisfied this mustve meant that 
business had been provided  with what it needed  in order to agree to the loan  a photo  of Mr 
S holding  his drivers  licence.
Oakbrook asked Mr S about this and he said hed previously had a photo  like that on his 
phone for car hire purposes. There seems to have  been a suggestion from him at the time 
that someone might have  accessed his phone  to get a copy  of the photo.  But when asked 
about how that might happen Mr S seemed to rule it out himself. Instead  he said it must 
have been the case that someone took a photo  of him when he was holding his licence.
I find that to be very unlikely. I cant think of a potential situation  where  someone  would  be 
posing with their drivers  licence and someone else  with the intention  to commit fraud in 
the future   takes a photo without anyone noticing.  Ive also now seen the photo that was 
provided to the other lender  having obtained  a copy  of it  and its clear it hasnt been  
taken by someone else. Its a photo  Mr S has taken himself. And so there appears to be no 
explanation for how someone has been able to supply that to one of the lenders involved.
conclusions
I cant say exactly whats happened here and its not the role of this service  to establish that. 
Its also not for Mr S to able to show exactly what happened either.  Many  victims of fraud will 
have no idea how their details might have been  compromised or their accounts accessed. 
But here there are too many unexplained  events, inconsistencies and contradictions in Mr S 
version of events. This calls into question  his testimony and I have found it difficult  to believe 
a good deal of what hes said. Ive still objectively considered  his case  and I can find no 
reasonable explanation  for how someone else would  have been  able to carry out all of this 
activity without Mr S involvement.  I cant then say Oakbrook has acted unfairly in holding 
Mr S liable for the loan.
my provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Ill await further submissions from both Mr S and Oakbrook before issuing my final decision. 
Anything either party would like considered should  reach me by 19 March  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5983492