K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (the bank)  hasnt offered to 
adequately compensate him for wrongly deactivating his current account and its associated 
services (including cards,  direct debits and overdraft) for three months. 
background 
The bank deactivated Mr Ss current account  or made it non-operational   without prior 
notice when it wrongly thought Mr S wasnt complying with repaying a residual debt left over 
after Mr S redeemed his mortgage. 
The bank originally  offered Mr S additional compensation of £140  for the upset and trouble 
caused by its actions. Mr S thought this was too little, and our adjudicator agreed,  
recommending the bank  should pay £400  for trouble and upset, plus the bank  should  repay  
account charges  of around £60. 
The bank broadly accepted the adjudicators conclusions and offered to pay £500 additional 
compensation in total.
The adjudicator thought  this was fair. Mr S didnt. 
Mr S has referred to two additional matters:
the banks  delay in dealing with his data subject access request
the confusion  stemming  from the bank over whether or not Mr S has a valid PPI 
complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I too have 
concluded the banks offer of additional compensation is fair. I have little to add to what  the 
adjudicator has already  said.  
If I may clarify one or two matters:
Consumers who come to us understandably often hope our investigation will uncover 
exactly what went wrong and what the causes of the banks failings were.  
But sometimes the state of the evidence doesnt  allow this, to the extent that might 
be wished. 
And often the precise reasons for the banks errors may be secondary.  What  matters 
is that we identify what the bank did wrong  and what  adverse effect this had on the 
consumer. We can then decide  what we think the fair compensation is.
In this case, while I can understand why Mr S might wish to know  more, I dont think I 
need to decide precisely  why the bank failed to credit the loan repayments.
I think its clear  that the bank  ought  to have  credited the loan repayments  submitted 
to it, and if it had done  so Mr Ss account wouldnt have been deactivated.
I think its also clear  the effect the deactivation  of the account  had on Mr S. Hes 
described this, and I accept what he says.  He went through  an awful  experience, and 
at a time when he could least be doing  with it. 
Ref: DRN54110742We require a bank  to compensate a consumer for the harm  suffered. We dont fine or 
punish the bank. So, we dont  require the bank  to pay more compensation just 
because a further error  is uncovered by our investigation, if the further  error hasnt 
caused any additional harm. 
We dont allow a complaint to become  a moving  target with additional complaint 
points being added as our investigation progresses.  Nor can we deal with complaints 
about data access  requests  as (a) this isnt a regulated activity covered by our 
jurisdiction and (b) there is already a body  the Information Commissioner  that 
deals with such complaints.
To sum up, I think I can tell clearly enough  from the evidence what the bank did wrong and 
the adverse effect this had on Mr S. I also think that a total of £500  additional  compensation 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay Mr S a further £500  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5411074