K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  AXA Insurance  UK Plcs decision to decline a claim 
they made under their caravan and legal  expenses policy.  
All reference to AXA includes  its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to AXA in August 2018.  While  travelling  on a motorway, the 
outer pane of a bathroom window on their caravan  blew away.  Another traveller alerted 
Mr and Mrs W to the event. Mr W taped the inner  window  so that they could continue  their 
journey. 
AXA instructed  an engineer  to inspect their caravan. He reported that the damage  was 
caused by wear and tear. So he said the repairs  werent covered under Mr and Mrs Ws 
policy with AXA. Mr and Mrs W said that theyd accidentally left the window open. But the 
engineer said he didnt think this made a difference. 
AXA said if Mr and Mrs W could  provide  information which supported  their view; it would 
consider their claim again. 
Mr and Mrs W asked  us to look at their complaint. They wanted AXA to cover  the claim for 
the window to be repaired.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted reasonably. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy provides insurance  for the following:  fire, theft,  accidental  damage,  
storm and flood and vandalism. It excludes cover for damage  caused by wear  and tear.
AXAs agent  said that the outer pane had become completely detached. He reported that 
there were no signs of accidental or impact related conditions that would  have caused  the 
damage.
He further reported that  if the window had accidentally been  left open while travelling  
hed expect the whole of the window to be torn from the hinge frame and not just the outer 
pane. He explained that window delamination is a common problem and further  information  
can be found on internet  forum sites. He suggested Mr and Mrs W contact the manufacturer.
So AXA declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim because the engineer said the damage to the outer  
window was due to wear and tear. 
The engineer emailed Mr W on 6 August 2018  and wrote:
Ref: DRN59806072Unless you are able to provide any information  which you feel counters the 
professional opinion of the engineer, I regret that I am not in a position to recommend 
Underwriters acceptance of your claim.
I will hold our file open for a period  of time to allow you a fair and reasonable 
opportunity to consider our findings  and to provide any further information  that might  
support your claim.  Without  this however,  I regret that I am unable  to be of any 
further assistance to you on this occasion.
So I think AXA acted reasonably by giving Mr and Mrs W the opportunity  to provide evidence 
 of equal weight  to support their view. Mr and Mrs W have explained that theyve  
contacted the manufacturer but havent yet been  able to show  that the issue  isnt due to 
wear and tear. 
In April 2019, AXA maintained that it will consider an independent professional  opinion  as to 
the cause of the window  damage if Mr and Mrs W provide a report.
I understand Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I think  AXA 
has acted reasonably and in line with the policy. It relied on the professional opinion of the 
independent engineer who inspected  Mr and Mrs Ws caravan. His report  concluded  that  
the window damage wasnt  a repair thats covered under their policy.  
So I dont  think AXA should have  met their claim.  But if Mr and Mrs W can provide an 
independent professional report to contradict the information AXA has relied on, it will 
reconsider. I think this is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5980607