K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc is holding him liable for two cash  machine 
withdrawals which he says he didnt  make.
background 
Mr K says on 8 and 9 April 2018  there  were two cash  machine withdrawals using  his credit 
card which he didnt  make - each for the amount  of £250. Mr Ks told us he realised these 
transactions on 9 April 2018 whilst  on his lunch  break, when he checked his online banking  
and was shocked to see the balance was over the limit and that the two cash  transactions 
had been made far from where  he lives and works. 
Mr K contacted Capital  One on 9 April 2018  to say he didnt recognise  the transactions.  
From the notes of the call with Capital One it says transactions from 7 March 2018  to 9 April 
2018 were disputed. But Mr K has confirmed to us that he is only disputing  the two cash  
machine withdrawals that took place in April. These  were withdrawals on 8 April 2018 at 
23:26 pm in London E6 and another withdrawal on 9 April 2018  at 00:18 am in London NW4.  
Hes told us that the two cash  machine withdrawals on 7 and 14 March 2018 were  made  by 
him. Mr Ks commented that this is reflected by the fact he made a payment  for the full 
balance of those  withdrawals on 23 March 2018.   
Mr Ks also confirmed he still had the card, which he keeps in his wallet  after the two 
disputed withdrawals and that he hadnt  told anyone his PIN. Mr K has previously told us that 
he doesnt write his PIN down as he prefers to remember  it. But more  recently  he said that 
the card is always with him and that his PIN is also in his wallet.  
Mr Ks let us know that prior to the disputed withdrawals he was abroad. He says he 
returned really late following flight delays on 7 April 2018. Hes told us due to getting home 
late, he woke up really  late on 8 April 2018  and then he got ready for work  and went  to work 
on Monday 9 April 2018.
Capital One investigated the matter and decided not to refund the two cash machine 
transactions. Theyve said as Mr K confirmed  the card was still in his possession and the 
correct PIN had been used to authorise the withdrawals, it considers the two cash  machine  
withdrawals to be genuine. 
As Mr K didnt agree  with Capital Ones  decision, he asked  us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said 
Capital One had confirmed the genuine credit card had been  used to make the withdrawals. 
And when  the withdrawals  were made, the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN 
entered for both of the transactions. So if a third party had made  the withdrawals, theyd 
have needed to have had both the genuine card and the PIN in their possession  but Mr K 
says the card was in his possession and he hadnt  disclosed the PIN to anyone else.
The investigator also said that as Mr K has confirmed the cash  withdrawals on 7 and 14 
March 2018 were made by him and that hed made a payment for the outstanding balance - 
if a third party had made  the cash machine withdrawals, they wouldve had to take and 
successfully replace Mr Ks credit  card and she couldnt see how this could  have happened  
without Mr Ks knowledge.
Ref: DRN52616782So because of this, our investigator felt unable to conclude that the transactions  were 
fraudulent and so didnt  recommend Capital  One refund the money.
Mr K disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed  me to decide. Mr K in his reply reiterated  
that the card was in his possession and, that he has no clue as to how the card could have 
left his possession.  Mr K says having  looked at information available  there are other ways 
his card information could have been compromised, such as the card being cloned.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much of the same  reasons. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs  
2017). They explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if the 
payer (in this case Mr K) has consented  to it. 
The payment service provider (in this case Capital One)  must  show the payment was 
authenticated. But its not enough for Capital  One to simply rely on the fact that the card and 
PIN were used, that doesnt  necessarily mean  that the payment was authorised  by the 
account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  Mr K will be liable for 
payments he has authorised and, generally speaking, Capital One will be liable for 
unauthorised payments.   
Capital One has provided technical  evidence that Mr Ks genuine  card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed cash withdrawals - this means  Mr Ks actual  card was used. Mr K has told 
us he thinks the credit card could  have been cloned. Ive thought carefully about this, but as 
Ive said above,  I can see Mr Ks actual card was used, along  with the chip being  read when 
each of the withdrawals  were made.  
Im also mindful Mr K has told us the last genuine card use was on 14 March  2018, prior to 
him paying the credit card balance in full on 23 March 2018  - so it had been a couple  of 
weeks that Mr K hadnt used the card. Taking this into account, together  with the evidence 
showing Mr Ks genuine  credit card was used to make the withdrawals, Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence  that Mr Ks credit card was cloned. 
Based on everything  Ive seen and been told, I dont think  it is unreasonable for Capital One 
to find it more likely that Mr K authorised the transactions. I will now explain why:
The two disputed cash machine withdrawals were made using Mr Ks genuine  card 
and PIN and while I recognise  Mr K has said the transactions happened far from 
Ref: DRN52616783where he lives and works, theres no convincing explanation as to how a third party 
could have obtained his credit card or known  his PIN, given what  Mr K has told us 
about this.
For an opportunistic fraudster to have  made  the withdrawals  they would have needed 
to have access to Mr Ks wallet to get the card and PIN details and then have been  
able to replace  them  without Mr K noticing. 
And while there has been a slight change in the information Mr K has provided 
around whether  or not his PIN was written down in his wallet - Mr K has told us he 
has no knowledge of his wallet being  out of his possession. 
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr K has let us know he was abroad before the disputed 
transactions. But Im mindful that he has confirmed  he had the credit  card with him on 
his return to the UK and on 9 April 2018  when on his lunch break. He also told 
Capital One when notifying them of the disputed transaction  that he still had the card. 
Further, I have to keep in mind that Mr K has confirmed the last time he used the 
credit card was on 14 March 2018  to make a cash machine  withdrawal - with him 
then making a payment on 23 March 2018  for the outstanding  balance. It wasnt  then 
until 9 April 2018 that Mr K went to use the credit card again. It seems unlikely that 
an opportunistic fraudster would have obtained  the credit  card sometime  after its last 
genuine use on 14 March  2018, waited until 8 and 9 April 2018 to then use the credit 
card to make the withdrawals and replace it before  lunch time on 9 April 2018 when 
Mr K went  to use it. This would  have  meant  the fraudster had to have knowledge  of 
the fact Mr K had made a payment to the credit card. Having thought  about  this, I 
think its unlikely an opportunistic fraudster would  have had such knowledge.
Also, Mr K has told us he realised  the disputed transactions on 9 April 2018 whilst on 
his lunch break, when  he checked  his online banking. But having received his online 
login information  from Capital One, the information shows that he accessed his 
online account on 9 April 2018  at 17.25 pm. 
In his response to this service, Mr K has referred to being abroad just before the transactions 
took place  hes said weve not asked  him if he used the credit card abroad or if he left it 
unattended abroad. From Capital Ones technical  evidence I can see there were no attempts 
to use the card abroad or at all until 8 April 2018. So Ive not seen anything to suggest  
Mr Ks credit  card was compromised whilst  he was abroad.
Taking everything Ive seen and been  told into account, I find, on balance, that Mr K 
authorised the disputed  cash  machine withdrawals.  It follows  that I cant  ask Capital One to 
reimburse him.
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but I hope he understand why Ive 
reached the decision I have.
Ref: DRN52616784my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5261678