K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Covea Insurance  plc (Covea) refused to pay a claim he made under an 
accident and sickness policy. Hes also unhappy  with the service hes been given.
background
In March 2018, Mr A had a septoplasty operation.  He made  a claim under an accident  and 
sickness policy. Covea declined his claim.  
Mr A says his claim has been  unfairly rejected. He says:
-He has never had any advice or treatment about  pain and discomfort in his nose prior to 
him seeking medical advice late in 2017.  
-He has never been aware of having  a nasal deformity.
-He had a sports injury  a ball hit him in the face - a few months before he went  to see a 
GP in late 2017.
-The sports injury  caused him to have difficulty breathing, continuous  pain and soreness.
-Although he had some possible issues when  he was a child, hes never been aware of any 
nasal symptoms  until the sports injury apart from nasal allergies  no pain or discomfort.
-He doesnt dispute that his allergies are pre-existing but the consultant has confirmed 
that the operation wasnt for his allergies.
-Covea promised  him that his claim would be met if he obtained  a letter  which said the 
operation wasnt  due to rhinitis but pain and discomfort. But his claim hasnt been paid 
even though he obtained a letter confirming this.
Mr A is also unhappy with the customer service given by Covea including the following:
-the time taken to respond to his correspondence;
-failing  to meet the timescales  Covea set;
-failing  to speak to his consultant and take into account the evidence; 
-the way he was spoken  to by the claims handler  - the claims handler disrespected him 
and accused him of wanting special treatment when that was not the case; and
-that the claims  handler lied to him he said that Mr As claim was rejected due to rhinitis.  But 
when he requested the documents, the doctor had only said 'no new condition is present'.
Mr A would like his claim to be paid as well as some  compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr A complained to Covea. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Covea explained that it had 
declined Mr As claim on the basis that it was a pre-existing  medical condition  (PEMC).  And 
Mr As policy  excludes claims resulting directly or indirectly from any PEMC,  unless  the 
consumer has been symptom-free and not received treatment or advice for that condition 
during any consecutive period of 24 months  previous to a claim.
Overall, Covea was satisfied with the level of service given. In relation to the phone  call, it 
explained that Mr As claim  manager  wanted to explain what  he could expect in terms of 
Coveas level of service  and, whilst acknowledging  that the call handler didn't articulate  this 
entirely as Covea would expect, the call handler didnt intend to upset Mr A. Even so, it 
apologised if Mr A felt that the claim manager was disrespectful to him in his last phone call 
with Covea and for the choice of words  used by the call handler.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN56955992Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt  agree  that 
Covea had acted  unfairly in declining  his claim.  He thought that Mr As deviated  septum  
appeared to be a PEMC. This is because it was a condition or related condition  which  Mr A 
was aware of or shouldve been  aware of during the 24 months  up to and including  the 
commencement date of the policy. He also didnt feel able to say Mr A had been  symptom 
free either. 
In relation to the service given by Covea, our investigator didnt  uphold  Mr As complaint. 
Having reviewed the evidence and listened to all the calls between  Mr A and Covea,  our 
investigator thought:
-Mr A was given responses  within a reasonable time;
-He was unable to say that Covea has done  anything wrong by not speaking with Mr As 
consultant.
-Covea isnt required to speak to your consultant  if he believes he already has all the 
information required to fairly assess your claim.
-Whilst he understood Mr A felt disrespected in his call with Covea in June 2018 when he 
said I cant make any special  treatments  for your claim  in relation  to the time to respond 
to written correspondence, our investigator didnt believe  this was the call handlers 
intention. Instead,  he thought the call handler  was trying to manage Mr As expectations 
about their service levels. And, although  he felt this couldve been explained better, he 
didnt think the call handler was being  intentionally disrespectful toward Mr A. 
-He was unable to say that the claims  handler lied about  what  the independent medical  
officer had said. The medical  officer  stated  in his letter  that he was struggling to see 
either a new condition or a condition that is newly presented, he was therefore agreeing 
with Covea  that the deviated septum  and allergic rhinitis werent new conditions. And 
our investigated thought this was correctly communicated  to Mr A during  the calls with 
the claims handler.
Mr A disagreed. He makes a number of points including the following: 
He doesn't agree that his injury was pre-existing as it only occurred just before he saw 
the doctor.
Theres no mention in his GP notes that hes seen the doctor due to the childhood injury 
before he took out the policy.
He wasnt aware of having a deviated septum until attending  the GP and has never  
consulted anyone  in the last 15 years  or more  about the bone of the nose.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN56955993Having done so, I have to tell Mr A that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. I think our investigator explained things 
clearly so I dont feel theres much  I can usefully add.
In Mr As medical history  notes, from November 2017 it states, 
History - ongoing nasal problems - injured nose when younger - septal 
deviationwas told would be referred  this was 4 months ago.
The GP referral letter in November 2017 says, 
He injured his nose  some time ago but has noticed increasing symptoms  
over recent years. We discussed  the possibility of a septoplasty.' 
The consultant ENT surgeons letter in December  2017  states  
This 24 year old complains of bilateral  congestion  which can alternate and 
some soreness/discomfort  in his nose when blowing.  He is known to have multiple 
allergies including  house dust mite, grass and pets.  He says he has had a previous  
nasal injury.
the main element of his nasal obstruction  symptoms  due to his allergic 
rhinitis we can treat with some Betamethasone drops  for a month, followed by some  
Dymista nasal  spray.  He is very keen to explore the surgical option and I have asked 
Mr S [a consultant ENT surgeon]  to review him in this regard.
Following this consultation Mr S writes, in December 2017,
He has nasal obstruction, but particularly on the right side things have got 
progressively worse  and he feels it interferes  with his medication and asthma.
Aside from what Mr A has told our service,  I havent seen any evidence  of a sports injury (or 
any injury)  to Mr As nose  or face before his November appointment with the doctor. And I 
think its reasonable to expect that, if Mr A had only been suffering from pain in his nose as a 
result of a recent sports injury, he wouldve mentioned this to the GP or consultants  and that 
they wouldve  recorded this in their notes or letters.
In contrast, the evidence I have seen  suggests  Mr A had:
-injured his nose  some time ago, when younger ;
-noticed increasing symptoms over recent  years;  and
-things have got progressively worse.
Given the above, I think it was reasonable for Covea to conclude that Mr A should be 
declined as the evidence suggests that Mr A has a condition for which the symptoms  are 
constant or recur, or which requires long term monitoring, treatment,  consultations, check-
ups, examinations or tests.
Finally, I dont uphold  Mr As complaint about the service Covea gave him. Like our 
investigator, I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that Covea did anything wrong during 
the claims process or in handling Mr As complaint. 
Ref: DRN56955994Ive listened to the calls between Mr A and Covea. I agree with the investigator about  the call 
with the claims manager in particular. I appreciate that the conversation  was difficult   Mr A 
was unhappy  with the decision  on his claim and the service hed been given. And I think the 
claims manager couldve better chosen the words he used when he was explaining the 
service levels  Covea  work to when  responding to written correspondence. However, Covea 
apologised to Mr A for any distress  this caused him. Even so, I dont think this is sufficient for 
me to uphold Mr As complaint about the service  Covea gave him in this particular call and 
make an award of compensation.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think Covea needs to do anything to put things 
right in this matter.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Covea  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5695599