K821x#15The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability  of the advice  provided by Towergate Financial (West)
Limited (Towergate) to invest £350,000  in a loan note through his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP)  in May 2014. He says Towergate misled him about the risks involved,  
causing his capital to be exposed to more risk than he was willing to accept.
The loan note investment is illiquid. As a result, Mr M is unable to access  his capital. To put 
things right, he wants Towergate  to pay him £350,000 compensation.
What happened
Ive considered this complaint before. I issued my provisional decision to Towergate and            
Mr M on 23 March  2020. In it I set out the background to this complaint which Ive recapped 
here:
On 20 January  2014, Towergates  adviser produced a Financial Plan for Mr M and 
recommended that he use money held in his SIPP  to invest in the loan note at the centre of 
this complaint. In connection with the loan note, the adviser provided to Mr M a number of 
documents produced by a third party promoter.  These documents  stated,  in summary, the 
following about the loan note:
an unquoted  company  (Company  A) required a £4.75m loan to fund the cost of 
refurbishing a commercial property owned  by its founders, to refinance  existing debt 
and to provide  cash liquidity   the loan was to be structured as a loan note and 
arranged by the third party promoter using investors  pooled capital
the loan was to be secured by a debenture and first charge over the commercial  
property
Company A didnt  have any other  borrowings
a chartered  surveyor had valued  the commercial property at £7.19m and expected  
this to rise to £11.1m  on completion of the refurbishment
the loan represented 66% of the then value of the commercial property, reducing  to 
43% on completion of the refurbishment to reflect  the predicted  higher market value
the loan was due to be fully repaid on 31 December 2016, but Company A expected 
to repay  it in Q4 2014 through refinancing with a commercial mortgage
in the meantime, investors  in the loan note would  be paid interest of 10% per year, 
payable quarterly in arrears
On 15 May 2014, on the advice of Towergate, Mr M then aged  69, invested  £350,000 in the 
loan note using  money held in his SIPP  this was the sale proceeds from another 
commercial property which had been owned and controlled by Mr M for many  years and was 
unconnected to Company A and the loan note. The £350,000 invested  in the loan note 
represented about 40% of the total value of Mr Ms SIPP at that time.
Ref: DRN59622342Company A didnt  repay  the loan on 31 December 2016 due to financial and liquidity
difficulties. The loan repayment date was extended  to 2020. In accordance  with the loan
note agreement, the final interest payment was paid into Mr Ms SIPP  on 6 April 2017   total
interest of £99,630.16 was paid.
Mr M was concerned about  the uncertainty regarding when his £350,000 capital would be
returned. He was told no parties  were interested in purchasing the commercial  property  and
Company A didnt  have any assets  that could be sold to repay investors. This led Mr M to
complain to Towergate about the suitability of its advice  to invest  in the loan note.  He told
Towergate, in summary,  that:
its adviser led him to believe that the loan note was a short  term, low risk investment
due to the low loan to value ratio of 43% on completion of the refurbishment and the
contractual arrangement provided  for the return of his capital on 31 December 2016
or, if not, the commercial property would be sold to repay investors
its adviser failed to make him aware of the speculative valuation of the commercial
property, meaning the loan to value ratios provided  to him, and upon which he made
the decision to invest, were  also speculative resulting in his capital being exposed  to
more risk than he was willing to accept
he was concerned the revised repayment date in 2020  wouldnt be met, rendering  his
capital illiquid for an indeterminate period of time beyond his 75th birthday
the investment  represented a significant proportion  of the value of his SIPP and the
unexpected illiquidity  had prevented him from accessing that part of his pension
savings
he wasnt warned  Company A could borrow additional money  from other sources,
thereby reducing  the loan to value  ratio and security  of his capital
he wouldnt have invested  in the loan note had it made him adequately  aware  of the
speculative commercial property valuations and true nature of the risks involved
to put things right, he wanted  it to pay him £350,000 compensation
Towergate didnt  uphold this complaint. In its final response letter to Mr M it said,  in
summary, that at the time of its advice:
his net investible  wealth was recorded  as £13.8m, meaning he had adequate
capacity for loss to tolerate the risks associated with investing £350,000  (less than
3% of his investible wealth) in the loan note
he held a varied portfolio of conventional assets and his recorded investment
objective was specifically to invest in alternative investments  in its view, the advice
to invest in the loan note met his objective
Ref: DRN59622343the characteristics and risks associated with the loan note were disclosed in its
suitability report dated 15 May 2014  which stated, amongst other things, This
investment could run for longer and may be difficult to exit before it runs its
courseYou will not have  access to your capital until it is repaid.  If [Company  A] do
not repay the loan at the end of the term, the investors will have to enforce their first
charge and sell the building.  This would result  in your capital being  tied up for
longerSince this is not a regulated investment, it should be viewed as a higher risk
investmentYou would essentially  be swapping one property  asset for another.  This
retains the current diversification of your pension and you do not have any other
commercial property exposure
the ensuing  financial and liquidity difficulties experienced by Company A didnt  mean
its advice in 2014 was unsuitable   therefore,  it wasnt willing  to uphold this complaint
and pay compensation
Mr M didnt  accept Towergates response. So he contacted this service. He told us that he
didnt receive the suitability  report  referenced  by Towergate in its final response letter.
Our adjudicator couldnt see evidence that Towergate had conducted a risk assessment to
determine Mr Ms risk profile with regard to investment in the loan note. Based on the
evidence provided,  our adjudicator concluded  that Mr M had a balanced risk profile and was
prepared to accept  some risk to achieve  a moderate return. Although  the loan note wasnt an
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS),  our adjudicator  thought that the
principles of the regulations set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act, Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes (Exemptions) Order  2001 and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook still applied.  He concluded  that Towergates advice was unsuitable  and
suggested this complaint  be upheld for the following reasons:
the third partys promotional documents for the loan note, upon which Mr M had
relied, failed to provide an accurate and balanced  explanation  of the risks involved
there was a restricted market of potential purchasers for the commercial  property in
the event of a forced sale
lack of regulatory oversight and control  meant  the unregulated loan note issued by an
unquoted company was a speculative, high risk investment
Towergate had misrepresented the risks associated with the loan note such that
Mr M was prevented from making an informed investment decision
Towergate failed  to adequately assess Mr Ms expertise, experience  and knowledge
in connection  with investment in loan notes issued  by unquoted companies
the loan note was inconsistent with Mr Ms deemed risk profile and investment
objective and exposed his capital to more risk than he was willing to accept
Ref: DRN59622344the loan note was nothing like the commercial property that was previously  held in
Mr Ms SIPP  that commercial property had been  owned and controlled by Mr M for
many years, was fully built and had a long track  record of being  rented out for a
commercial market rate, whereas the commercial property linked to Company A and
the loan note had no meaningful track record, was incomplete and its valuation was 
speculative
Our adjudicator recommended  that Towergate  pay compensation to Mr M by comparing the
performance of the loan note with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return
Index. Since  the investment was illiquid,  the adjudicator told Towergate  to assume it had nil
value for the purpose of the calculation. In addition, he recommended  that Towergate pay
Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the prospect of losing a
significant amount  of money.
Towergate didnt  accept our adjudicators opinion. It said it was disappointed  with the 
outcome and requested that this complaint be considered by an ombudsman. In defending
its position, Towergate provided additional  comments. It said,  in summary, that:
the facts of this complaint had been unfairly weighed by the adjudicator when forming
his opinion
Mr M was seeking to diversify away from conventional  assets, while maintaining  a
holistic position of a balanced  risk investor  it remained satisfied that investment in
the loan note met his objective
its widely accepted  a balanced  risk portfolio includes exposure  to varying asset
classes with differing levels of volatility including alternative investments; indeed  the
WMA indices used by this service for compensation calculations contain components
of high risk asset  classes such as hedge funds  so investment in the loan note was
suitable bearing in mind  Mr Ms balanced  risk profile
its advice had enabled Mr M to achieve  his objective of investing in an alternative
asset class and less than 3% exposure relative  to his investible wealth was
reasonable
its suitability report included adequate warnings about the characteristics of the loan
note and that it should be regarded as a higher risk investment   it acknowledged
that Mr M had denied receiving its suitability  report, but considered  it implausible  an
experienced investor wouldve invested £350,000 without a written  record or
explanation of what they were entering  into
its unreasonable to penalise  Towergate  for the written content in the promotional
documents and information produced by the third party promoter
although a moot point, the proposed compensation methodology was flawed  it
thought the Balanced index would be the most appropriate benchmark for the
calculation
the adjudicator  was wrong to assess Mr Ms complaint on the basis  the advice
process failed to adhere to the UCIS requirements  but at the same time acknowledge
the loan note is not in fact a UCIS  as such, it was concerned that the adjudicator
had unfairly applied the incorrect  standard  when assessing suitability
Ref: DRN59622345Our adjudicator considered Towergates  comments but wasnt  persuaded to alter his opinion
on the merits. On 16 November 2018,  he wrote  to Towergate to reiterate his view that its
advice was unsuitable because it exposed Mr Ms capital to more risk than he was willing  to
accept. But, after reconsidering the matter, he thought compensation should be calculated
on a different basis to better reflect his opinion that Mr M was prepared  to accept some risk
to achieve his deemed investment objective.  He wasnt  satisfied that Mr Ms investment
objective couldnt be met by regulated investments.  With this in mind, he told Towergate  and
Mr M that he thought  the comparative  calculation  should be changed  to 50% FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% average rate from fixed  rate
bonds. Neither party responded about this change.
Mr M recently provided an update to this service. He said that the third party promoter had 
told him no parties are interested  in purchasing the commercial property and theres  no 
prospect of investors  capital being  returned.
After setting out the background,  I told Towergate  and Mr M that my provisional  decision was 
as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering whats  fair and
reasonable, Im required to take into account  relevant law and regulations,  regulators rules,
guidance and codes of practice,  and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at
the time.  And as a fresh  pair of eyes looking at this complaint, its for me to decide, based on
the information provided, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Before I go on, Id like to offer my sincere apologies to Towergate and Mr M for the length of
time its taken to issue a decision  on this complaint.  Based  on the evidence provided, Ive
provisionally decided  to uphold this complaint. Ive set out the reasons why below.
The features  of the loan note
Loan notes are a type of financial instrument typically  issued by companies to raise  capital
for various  purposes.  Theyre a type of debt where a lender provides a loan to a company
who agrees by contract to repay it at a future date, usually with fixed  interest  paid to the
lender during the interim period. The level of risk attached to a loan note depends  on a range
of factors.
The loan note at the centre of this complaint was issued by Company A, an unquoted
company which  meant it had limited regulatory oversight and control.  Its specific business
activities meant it was likely  there  would be a restricted market of potential  rental tenants
and purchasers  for the commercial property in the event of a forced sale.  The loan note was
unregulated and paid interest  of 10% per year, payable quarterly in arrears.  The chartered
surveyors report confirmed that the estimated property valuations  before (£7.19m) and after
(£11.1m) refurbishment were speculative  due to the lack of comparable  properties and was
largely based on the capitalised value of future income potential  in a niche market.
In my view, these factors, when aggregated,  meant  the loan note was a speculative,  high
risk investment with a material risk of significant  or total capital  loss. Towergate doesnt
dispute this. In its suitability report it stated in reference to the loan note: Since this is not a
regulated investment, it should be viewed as a higher risk investment.
Ref: DRN59622346I share  our adjudicators  view that the loan note was nothing  like the commercial property
previously held in Mr Ms SIPP. So I think the advisers statement in the suitability report  that
Mr M would essentially be swapping one property asset for another was an unfair
comparison and downplayed the higher level of risk attached to the loan note.
Mr M says he only obtained a copy of the surveyors report  when making  this complaint. I
havent seen evidence it was disclosed or explained to Mr M before he invested.
In my view, the loan note was likely to be suitable  for a limited  number of investors both
willing and able to tolerate  the material risk of significant or total capital loss in exchange for
the reward of 10% interest. The question I need to answer is whether Towergates  advice
could be regarded as suitable in Mr Ms circumstances  when measured against  the
standards set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Ive considered
these standards  below in forming my decision.
The FCAs suitability rules  and guidance
As a regulated entity, Towergate was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of Mr M at all times.  This duty extended
to ensuring it provided suitable investment advice to Mr M.
The FCAs suitability rules  and guidance  that applied  at the time Towergate advised Mr M
were set out in COBS  9. The purpose  of the rules  and guidance  is to ensure that regulated
businesses, like Towergate, take reasonable steps  to provide advice that is suitable  for their
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond
their investment objective and risk profile. In Mr Ms case, this meant Towergate had to
obtain necessary  information regarding his:
knowledge and experience (to understand the risks associated with the loan note)
financial situation (including capacity for loss);  and
investment objective (including purpose of the investment, risk profile, term and
preferences)
Mr Ms knowledge and experience
I havent seen  evidence Towergate conducted  an assessment of Mr Ms knowledge and
experience of investing in loan notes or that he had previously  invested in such. So Ive tried
to reach  a view on what I think his knowledge  and experience wouldve been  and his
ability to understand  the risks involved  by assessing the evidence  provided.
Mr M accumulated most of his wealth as a result of selling his business interests many years
ago, the proceeds  of which  were mainly invested  in conventional assets. In early  2014
Towergate collated information about Mr Ms savings and investments. This showed that he
and his wife held, in total, investible  assets  of about £13.8m in their individual and joint
names. They didnt  have any debt. The significant majority of this wealth was held in
conventional assets such as cash,  bonds, shares  and National Savings  and Investments
index linked certificates, and a very small proportion in an Enterprise Investment Scheme
(EIS). The business interests and commercial property he previously owned and controlled
were unconnected to Company A and the disputed loan note.
Ref: DRN59622347Based on this, Ive decided that Mr Ms knowledge  and experience  was limited mainly to
conventional investments.  While  EISs  are investments in unquoted companies, I dont think
theyre directly comparable to loan notes given the different structure, risks and tax
treatment. Therefore Im not convinced Mr M had the knowledge and experience  to
understand the risks associated with the loan note. In this sense,  he was an inexperienced
investor. But this doesnt  necessarily mean  the loan note should be regarded as unsuitable.
It may well have been suitable if it aligned to Mr Ms financial situation and investment
objective. Ive considered  these points below.
Mr Ms financial situation
Mr M has disputed  the accuracy of Towergates  records that he and his wife held investible
assets of about  £13.8m in 2014. He says the true figure was about £12m to £13m. Whatever
the correct figure, its clear that at the time they were  wealthy individuals  and had significant
assets upon which they could rely to provide  income  and capital during their lifetime. So I
think its fair to say they were financially secure.
Towergate has placed a great deal of weight on the fact that the £350,000 capital invested  in
the loan note represented less than 3% of Mr Ms and his wifes total investible wealth. It
says this meant Mr M had adequate capacity such that he could  tolerate  the risk of total
capital loss. Its also asserted that this type of small percentage investment in a higher risk
venture was an appropriate part of a well diversified portfolio.
In my view, while an investors  capacity  for loss is an important factor when assessing
suitability, it isnt the defining factor. Given Mr Ms and his wifes overall wealth, the total loss
of £350,000 would unlikely have  a material impact on their standard  of living. But this doesnt
mean the loan note should be regarded as suitable. While an investor  might  be able to
tolerate the risk of total capital loss, its equally important to establish  if this aligns to their
investment objective  and whether theyre willing to accept the risk with that particular
amount of money,  even if it constitutes  a relatively  small  percentage of their overall investible
assets. Ill address  this further below.
Mr Ms recorded investment objective
In responding  to this complaint, Towergate  says its records show it advised Mr M to invest  in
the loan note because he thought he was heavily weighted in conventional assets and
wanted to diversify his position by investing  in alternative assets. Having  reviewed the
evidence, I dont agree that this is an accurate representation of the position.  Ill explain why.
On 20 January 2014, Towergates adviser produced  a Financial Plan for Mr M. This stated
that Mr Ms primary  objective was Asset  Protection and secondary objective  was Wealth
Preservation. To achieve the primary objective,  the adviser stated:
You have previously made EIS investments but have not completed any of the other
alternative investments  I have recommended.  As I have said previously, you have
substantial assets invested in traditional assets  and you do not need to add to
this position. [emphasis  added]
There have been  many tax efficient  alternative  investments over the last year that
have been suitable for you in that they have provided a tax free income or substantial
tax reliefs up front that reduce the risk while increasing returns  for you.
Ref: DRN59622348I recommend we commit to one of these investments prior to the tax year to start the
ball rolling. Specifically,  I recommend the [redacted] Loan Note which pays  10%
per annum over  3 years. [emphasis added] I suggest this is held in your pension
and we can use the sale proceeds from [previously held commercial property].
On 7 February 2014, Towergates adviser  emailed Mr M about the loan note. He stated:
To summarise,  this is a loan originally secured by [Company  A] throughone of
their VCTs.  This was used  to build the [the commercial property] and the rate and
terms were market value because banks were  not lending at that point (they still
arent).
The next phase is the kit out and operation of the [commercial property] As such,
[third party promoter]  have committed to raising  the funds for the fit out through an
EIS. As such, they have taken the opportunity of passing the loan onto their
investors.
The loan of £4.75m comes  with a first charge over the building and the new
equipment that is being installed currently via the EIS and will be complete [in] April.
Therefore the security  will be £4.75m over a building valued at £11.1m (which
includes £3m of brand new equipment). This means  that in the event [Company A]
does not pay back the loan, the building and equipment can be sold.  This is a LTV of
43% which provides  a good buffer for security. Although the loan is for 3 years [the
third party promoter] expect [Company A] to refinance at the end of this year.
Your pension fund can own the loan and therefore  the interest will be tax free in your
pension.
On 2 May 2014,  Mr M emailed a number  of questions  to Towergates adviser to obtain
assurances about the investment. The adviser  sought answers from the third party  promoter
which he then forwarded to Mr M. Ive copied  those questions and answers below:
Mr M: This is a loan (10% pa) for a 3 year term or earlier - what  happens if the loan
is required longer  term?
Third party promoter:  They  have to pay back after three years, if they dont  we can
enforce our security (i.e. take and sell the property). We expect them to pay back  our
loan with bank  finance before our loan is due.
Mr M: There will be a first charge on the property?
Third party promoter:  Yes this is a first charge.  The charge is jointly  held by
[promoters] investors (who  have lent £3.4m) and [other third party]  (£1.3m).
Mr M: Can you clarify  precisely the parties to the 66% loan to value against the
property. Purchase  value £800,000. Is it the [third party promoter] and [Company A]?
Third party promoter:  The 66% LTV is the total amount of [third  party promoter]  and
[other third party] debt compared  to [surveyors] value of the building before it is fitted
out (£7.2m).
Ref: DRN59622349Mr M: The value of the property - fire sale value? Need some credible valuation for
£3,135,000+?
Third party promoter:  See above. [Surveyor] value  the building at £7.2m pre fit-out,
£11.1 m once fitted out (which will be done  by July)  and £14m  full.
Mr M: What event  / events will trigger a forced sale of the property?
Third party promoter:  The usual failures  (failure to pay interest  or to repay the loans
on time) are events of default.  Once in default  we can choose to enforce our security.
Mr M: What power do the investors  have if anything goes wrong  interest payments
stop, repayment of capital  not happening?  How do we get our money  back?
Third party promoter:  [third  party  promoter] manage the investment and would seek
a buyer  for the business/asset.
In my opinion, this evidence indicates  that it was Towergates adviser and not Mr M who
thought he was heavily weighted in conventional  assets and shouldnt add to this position.
And it was also the adviser who thought Mr M should diversify his position by investing  in
alternative assets such as the loan note. Based on this, Ive concluded  that the
recommendation for the loan note was adviser led and that Mr M followed this because he
was relying, as he was entitled to, on Towergates adviser to act in his best interests  and
provide expert advice.
I havent seen  evidence that Towergate  conducted  an assessment of Mr Ms risk tolerance
to establish his willingness to expose  his £350,000 capital to the material risk of significant or
total capital loss in the loan note in exchange for the reward of 10% interest.  As noted
above, I also havent seen evidence that the surveyors  report was disclosed or explained to
Mr M before he invested. Mr M says that based on the information  provided by Towergate,
he concluded the loan note presented a short term, low risk investment and his £350,000
capital would likely be returned  no later than 31 December 2016  and if it wasnt,  he and
other investors could  recoup their capital by way of a forced sale of the commercial  property.
Having reviewed the information upon which Mr M relied, I can fully understand why, as an
inexperienced investor  in loan notes, he incorrectly concluded that the disputed  loan note
was a short term, low risk investment and was confident his £350,000 capital would be
returned. Im not satisfied  that the features of the loan note, as Ive described them above,
were clearly and fairly disclosed to Mr M. Ive concluded that Towergates  adviser
downplayed the risks which resulted in Mr M making  the decision to invest from an
uninformed position.
If properly informed, would Mr M have invested  anyway?
In potential mitigation  of Towergates advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr M, if placed
in a fully informed position,  would  nevertheless  have  gone ahead with the investment.  But
Im not persuaded, on balance, he wouldve been  willing to expose about  40% of the
value of his SIPP to the material risk of significant or total capital loss in exchange for the
reward of 10% interest had he been placed in an informed position. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN596223410Mr M told us his true objective was to invest  his £350,000 capital in any asset class that
provided a sensible, moderate level of return in exchange for a low level of risk and wasnt
intent on investing  in alternative  assets. On balance, Ive concluded this is credible in the
circumstances. I say this because Towergate  recorded Mr Ms primary objective as Asset
Protection, he reasonably concluded the loan note was a short term, low risk investment
based on the information provided and the overall  composition of his other savings and
investments in early  2014. Bearing  in mind he was 69 at that time and based on what  Ive
seen, Ive decided  that he was prepared  to accept a small  level of risk with his capital to
attain his investment  objective.
For the reasons  Ive set out, my view is that the loan note didnt meet Mr Ms objective.
Third party  promoters  promotional documents
Towergate says its not responsible for the content in the promotional  documents  and other
information produced by the third party promoter.  I agree that Towergate  isnt responsible for
these documents.  But this doesnt  alter the fact that Mr M had engaged Towergate to
provide expert advice.  Towergate owed a duty of care to Mr M and ought  to have conducted
its own assessment of the risks associated with the loan note before advising him to invest. I
havent seen evidence Towergate conducted  adequate due diligence  on the quality of the
loan note and whether  it was appropriate for Mr M to invest. Therefore, in my view,
Towergate failed  in its duty of care to Mr M in this regard.
Towergates suitability  report
In its final response letter  and in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  Towergate referred to
its suitability report dated 15 May 2014  as evidence that it had placed Mr M into an informed
position about the risks associated with the loan note including  a warning it should be
regarded as a higher  risk investment. Mr M says he didnt receive Towergates suitability
report until he made this complaint. In response, Towergate says its implausible that Mr M
wouldve invested £350,000 without a written record or explanation of what he was entering
into.
I dont agree with Towergates view on this point, since its not an accurate representation  of
the position to say that Mr M invested £350,000  in the loan note without a written  record or
explanation. Ill explain why.
Mr M sent us a SIPP statement that indicates  the £350,000 investment in the loan note was
placed on 15 May 2014. In the several  months preceding this date, Mr M received a number
of documents  about the loan note including Towergates Financial Plan produced  on
20 January 2014  which  included a specific recommendation  for the disputed loan note,
several emails from Towergates  adviser, third party promotional documents  and the
Investment Management  Agreement that set out the contractual  obligations. So, on
balance, I think Mr M wouldve reasonably concluded that he had received a written
record and explanation of what he was entering  into before he invested - and probably
wouldnt have expected a further  document unless he was told otherwise.  I havent  seen
evidence that Towergates adviser told Mr M he should expect to receive the suitability
report.
Ref: DRN596223411In any event, I dont think  receipt of the suitability report wouldve changed anything. I say
this because the suitability report is dated 15 May 2014  the same  date the investment was
placed. I accept  that its not unusual for suitability reports  to be received  after an investment
has been placed where its intended  to represent confirmation of an agreed  course  of
action. But this situation is different. There were no cancellation rights  or cooling off period
for the loan note investment. So had Mr M received and read the report, and disagreed  with
the content, he wouldnt have been  able to change his mind. The suitability report was
essentially sent to Mr M too late in the process  to play any meaningful part in his decision to
invest.
I acknowledge that, if received,  Mr M didnt then challenge the content  of the suitability report
afterwards  although I also have to weigh  this against his own assertion that he didnt
receive it. And for the reasons given above,  I dont think Mr M was necessarily expecting it.
But notwithstanding the point above,  whether  or not Mr M received the suitability report
doesnt alter the fact that Ive concluded  that Towergates advice  was unsuitable. And receipt
of the suitability report, with any associated risk warnings, wouldnt have transformed an
unsuitable recommendation into a suitable one.
Conclusion
There was a material risk of significant or total capital loss, which was a reasonably
foreseeable possibility for this investment. Taking everything into account, and on a fair and
reasonable assessment of this case,  Ive concluded  that the advice for the loan note was
unsuitable. Even if Mr M was deemed  to be able to tolerate financial risk with that
percentage of his investible assets,  it didnt align to his deemed investment objective  and
exposed his capital  to a level of risk beyond that which I think  he was willing to accept for
that particular  investment  amount. Mr M invested  from an uninformed position  and Im not
satisfied that, if hed been properly informed, he wouldve gone ahead  with it. My view is
that Towergate didnt act in Mr Ms best interests  in advising him to invest  in the loan note.
Therefore, Ive decided  that its fair and reasonable to provisionally uphold  this complaint.
I told Towergate and Mr M that I considered fair compensation should be calculated  as 
follows:
Fair compensation
Ive noted Towergates comments about  the indices used by this service for the purpose of
calculating compensation  and that the inclusion of small  levels  of high risk investment
supports its view that the overall level of diversification here was appropriate.  But I think  it
misses the point of what we seek to achieve.
Firstly, for a compensation index to be invoked, the complaint would naturally need to be
upheld and this is likely  to be on the basis of an unsuitable level of risk to which that
particular amount of money was exposed. And the indices we use are designed  to be a
proxy for the level of risk to which that investment amount in question should  be exposed  
not an entire portfolio.
Ref: DRN596223412I agree  the inclusion  of a small percentage of high risk investment might be appropriate  in
some cases.  In this case, if the index  used for compensation purposes contains  3%
exposure to high risk assets, and the investment in question  represented  3% of Mr Ms total
investible assets, the ultimate exposure  for Mr M to those high risk assets would be less than
0.1% of his total investible wealth. So the proposed compensation methodology is based on
Mr M taking  a lower level of risk than that recommended by Towergate.
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably
now be in if he had been given suitable investment  advice  on that particular investment
amount in question.
I take the view that Mr M wouldve invested it differently. Its not possible to say precisely
what he wouldve done differently. But Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out below is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
What should Towergate do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Ive provisionally decided that Towergate should:
Compare the performance of the loan note with that of the benchmark shown below.
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value there  is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Towergate  should add interest  as set out below.
If theres a loss, Towergate  should pay into Mr Ms SIPP to increase its value by the
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If Towergate is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Ms SIPP, it should pay that
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the SIPP,  it would provide a
taxable income. Therefore part of the compensation should be reduced  to notionally
allow for any income tax that would otherwise be paid.
The notional deduction should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected
marginal rate of tax. Given  Mr Ms wealth and likely taxable income from other
sources, Ive decided that he should be treated as a higher  rate taxpayer for the
purpose of calculating compensation. On this basis, the reduction would equal the
current higher rate of tax. However, if Mr M wouldve been able to take a tax free
lump sum from the funds  in question, the notional reduction should be applied  to 75%
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him
by the prospect of losing a significant amount of money.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Towergate deducts income tax from the
interest it should tell Mr M how much  has been  taken off. Towergate should give Mr M a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN596223413investment name
Status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
loan note still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other  
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds date of 
investmentdate of my 
final decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the loan note at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the loan note. So, the actual value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Towergate should  take ownership  of the
illiquid loan note by paying a commercial value  acceptable  to the SIPP  provider. This amount
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Towergate is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Towergate may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to
pay Towergate any amount he may receive from the loan note in the future. That
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the SIPP. Towergate will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment wouldve been worth  at the end date, had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Towergate
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually
compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there  were a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Towergate  totals  all those  payments  and deducts  that figure
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.  To aid Towergates calculation, Mr M has
confirmed to this service that in connection with the loan note, total interest of £99,630.16
was paid into his SIPP with the final payment received  on 6 April 2017. Towergate may wish
to confirm this figure.
Ref: DRN596223414Why is this proposed remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M was prepared  to accept a small level of risk with his capital to attain  his 
investment objective.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income Total Return Index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Ms risk profile in connection with the investment was such  that he
was prepared to accept a small level of risk with his capital to attain his investment
objective. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position.  It
doesnt mean that Mr M wouldve  invested  50% of his money in a fixed rate bond
and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr M couldve 
obtained from investments suited  to his deemed  investment objective and risk profile.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold this complaint. I consider that fair compensation should
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Towergate  Financial (West) Limited must
pay Mr M the amount  produced by the calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 (including
trouble and/or upset but excluding costs)  plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I recommend that Towergate Financial (West) Limited  pays Mr M the balance  plus
any interest on the balance as set out above.
This recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. It doesnt bind Towergate
Financial (West) Limited. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to
ask for the balance.  Mr M may want to consider  getting independent  legal advice before
deciding whether to accept  my decision.
If Towergate Financial (West) Limited  doesnt  pay the recommended  amount, then the
illiquid loan note should be retained  by Mr M. This is until any future benefit that he may
receive from the loan note together with the compensation paid by Towergate Financial
(West) Limited  (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out
above.
Towergate Financial  (West) Limited  may request an undertaking from Mr M that either he
repays to Towergate  Financial (West)  Limited  any amount he may receive from the loan note
thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point.
Ref: DRN596223415Mr M should be aware that any such amount  would  be paid into his SIPP  so he may have  to
realise other  assets  in order to meet the undertaking.
Towergate Financial  (West) Limited  should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr M in a
clear, simple  format.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Towergate said it had nothing further to 
add. Mr M said he agreed with my findings but queried the proposed  method of 
compensation. He said hed been advised  that trying to calculate the average rate for fixed 
bonds isnt an easy task and that hed prefer compensation to be based only on comparison 
with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. 
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disputed what happened. Therefore I see no reason to change my findings 
as set out in my provisional decision.
With regard to Mr Ms comment about  my proposed method of compensation and his 
preference that it be calculated on a different basis, he hasnt provided any compelling 
reason that persuades me to change my mind. Im content that the proposed remedy is 
suitable for the reasons  stated in my provisional  decision  and will provide fair compensation. 
Ive no reason to believe  that Towergate  will be unable to calculate  the average  rate for fixed 
rate bonds  over the relevant period when calculating compensation. Ive directed Towergate 
to provide details  of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.  If, upon receipt of these 
details, Mr M has any concerns that the calculation hasnt been carried out correctly then he 
should come  back to this service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Towergate Financial (West) Limited must compensate Mr M in 
accordance with the directions set out in my provisional decision and recapped above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5962234