K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (E&L) 
unreasonably declined a claim on her horse  insurance policy.  
Background
Mrs R first insured her show  jumping  horse  with E&L in 2013.  In July 2015,  the horse was 
diagnosed with hindlimb proximal suspensory desmitis  (HPSD), a ligament inflammation 
which causes lameness. Mrs R made  a successful claim to E&L for the cost of the treatment,  
which included surgery. The horse subsequently recovered and went  back  to competing.    
Once the claim was settled, E&L wrote to Mrs R to explain that it was no longer prepared to 
cover the horses  hindlimb  suspensory ligaments or any conditions relating to them.  It said it 
would be adding an exclusion  to Mrs Rs policy from the next renewal date to reflect this. 
But it said claims for HPSD would still be valid for 365 days from its onset. 
In September  2017, the horse began showing signs of lameness again. Following an 
examination, a vet suspected this was being caused by a flare up of the HPSD. The vet 
initially recommended  a period of box rest, but there was no improvement. In early  2018, 
they advised that the horse should  be retired from competitive use with immediate effect. 
Mrs Rs policy included cover for loss of use, so she contacted E&L to make a claim. 
But E&L declined  the claim as it felt it arose  from a condition  that was now excluded.  
It said that, in any event, claims for loss of use needed to be made within  365 days of the 
onset of the condition that incapacitated  the horse, which it felt was the HPSD in this case.  
Mrs R complained to E&L as she said her horse  was no longer fit to compete. She said the 
terms E&L was relying on werent brought to her attention when she bought the policy  or 
when the original claim was settled.  She felt shed  continued to pay for loss of use cover 
when it was effectively  worthless. Mrs Rs vet also wrote to E&L in support of her claim. 
E&L reviewed the complaint but didnt change its stance, so Mrs R asked our service to 
carry out an impartial review. Our investigator  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She felt the terms E&L was relying  on had been  set out clearly  in the documentation Mrs R 
had been sent at each  renewal.  And she felt that E&L had applied  them  fairly to the 
circumstances of Mrs Rs claim. As Mrs R didnt agree, I need to reach a final decision.  
My findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN53998262The loss of use section  of Mrs Rs policy requires that, for a successful claim to be made, 
the opinion of your vet (and our vet if we say so) must be that the injury  or illness results in 
a confirmed claim for incapacity  within 365 days of the onset of the claimed  condition.  
Mrs Rs horse was first treated for HPSD  in July 2015. It wasnt  until early 2018  that a vet 
recommended the horse should  be retired. The vets diagnosis  was a further  flare up of 
HPSD and they described the lameness returning since  the surgery in 2015. Its therefore  
clear that Mrs Rs claim for loss of use resulted from HPSD.  And that the horse  wasnt 
incapacitated by HPSD within 365 days. 
E&L also added an exclusion to Mrs Rs policy  for all conditions relating  to the horses  
hindlimb suspensory ligaments in January 2016. But it said it would continue to cover the 
HPSD for 365 days from its onset. The loss of use section  excluded  any condition  excluded 
from cover  as detailed on the policy schedule. Mrs Rs vet confirmed the horse  was retired 
due to lameness  of the hindlimbs, the cause  of this being the suspensory  ligament. And, as 
mentioned, the claim was raised more than 365 days after the onset of the HPSD.  
Having considered the veterinary evidence against the terms of Mrs Rs policy,  I dont think  
her claim is covered. 
I dont think E&L made it particularly clear when the policy first started that the loss of use 
cover would operate in this way. Where  a benefit is time limited, Id expect that to be brought 
to the policyholders  attention in the policy summary. E&Ls policy  summary highlighted that 
cover for vets fees was restricted to 365 days  from the onset of an illness  for example.  But it 
didnt highlight any time restrictions relating to the loss of use cover. 
Having said that, the policy summary  (from Mrs Rs 2014 renewal date onwards) did 
highlight that any condition excluded from cover as detailed on the policy  schedule  or 
notified by letter or email was also excluded under the loss of use section. E&Ls letter in 
September 2015 made clear that any conditions relating to the horses  hindlimb suspensory 
ligaments, including HPSD once 365 days had elapsed from its onset, would be excluded 
from the following  renewal  date. And this was also highlighted on Mrs Rs policy  schedule  
each year after that. So, I think the time limit would  arguably have been  clear from this.  
Even if this wasnt particularly clear to Mrs R, I dont  think theres anything she could have 
done differently  if shed  known more about the time limit for loss of use claims. From what  
Ive seen, all insurers in the horse  insurance market require that a condition  must lead to 
incapacity within, at most,  two years for a loss of use claim to be successful. So, even if 
Mrs R had chosen another policy,  its unlikely her claim would have been paid. 
Without the benefit of hindsight, I think its also unlikely Mrs R would have made a claim for 
loss of use any earlier if shed been  more aware  of the time restriction. Thats because she 
didnt receive veterinary advice to retire  the horse until January 2018. And in any event, the 
horse continued to compete until September 2017. A loss of use claim couldnt have been 
made any earlier than that as the horse could clearly still carry out the functions it was kept 
and used for. Put simply, there was no loss of use. So, I dont think  Mrs R lost out due to the 
time limit for loss of use claims not being  specifically highlighted in the policy summary.
Mrs R has complained that E&L continued to take premiums for the loss of use cover even 
after 365 days had elapsed  from the onset of the HPSD. But I think E&L was still providing  
cover after that as the horse could have  been  incapacitated by another  illness or injury. 
I therefore dont  think any refund  of premiums is due to Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN53998263My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.  
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5399826