K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way a claim under his residential property insurance policy has 
been settled by Aviva Insurance  Limited and that parts of his claim have been declined. 
background 
Mr B owns a property which he let to tenants. He took legal proceedings to have the tenants 
evicted. After the tenants had left, Mr B found  damage had been caused to the property and 
fixtures and fittings in it. He made  a claim to Aviva.
Aviva said it wouldnt cover  some damage because  the property hadnt been in a good state 
of repair when the tenants had moved in and damage had been caused by wear  and tear.
The tenants had also redecorated some rooms  without  Mr Bs permission. Aviva  said that 
wasnt malicious or accidental damage.
Aviva said that the remaining damage covered  by the policy would be treated as multiple  
claims with each having an excess of £100 because it wasnt  sure of the date when each 
incident took place. It said it would  cover the cost of damage to the lino and bedroom  carpet  
and the theft of two sets of blinds.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
For any insurance claim its for the policyholder to show that an insured event (malicious 
damage, accidental  damage or theft in this case) has occurred  and to show  what loss or 
damage resulted  from that event. It isnt for the insurer to do this on the policyholders behalf.
I can see that this is a problem for Mr B because he doesnt know how the damage  
happened. So I have to decide whats more likely to have caused the damage in question.
Malicious damage isnt defined in the policy. Taking the ordinary understanding  of the word  
malicious, I think it means damage caused deliberately. Damage that results  from tenants 
living carelessly or untidily  isnt usually classed as malicious. Having looked through this 
case and in particular  the report and photos from Mr Bs letting agent I think the only damage 
which is likely to be malicious  is the ripped or torn curtain. I think Aviva should  accept Mr Bs 
claim for malicious damage to the curtains. For the avoidance of doubt it is entitled to apply 
an excess of £100 to this claim. Otherwise  I agree with Aviva that Mr B hasnt  shown that 
any other malicious damage occurred.
For example, the tenants redecorated but they didnt  do a very good  job with paint splattered 
on the skirting board.  I think its more likely that they just werent  careful when decorating.
There are also holes  in the wall where things have been nailed or screwed  in and then 
removed. Again I think the tenants  have done  this deliberately but for their own purposes  
(probably because they wanted something  fixed or nailed  in a particular position) rather than 
with the intention of causing damage  to Mr Bs property.
Accidental damage isnt defined in the policy either. Again, taking the ordinary meaning of 
the word,  I think accidental means  something sudden, unforeseen and unintentional.  The 
policy says that damage caused by gradual  deterioration,  wear  and tear or rust (amongst
Ref: DRN57675252other things)  isnt covered. I dont  think it was unreasonable of Aviva  to say that some  of the 
damage wasnt covered  because of these exclusions   for example, the cupboard  door that 
didnt close properly, the heat damaged worktop and the loose brass figment on the gas fire. 
I think this type of damage would be more likely to happen gradually.
If Aviva accepts  an accidental damage  claim, its entitled under the policy  to repair or replace 
the item.  Ive seen  a photo of the lounge carpet which was marked and damaged near the 
kitchen door.  Mr B disposed of this before Aviva had a chance to try to repair it. I dont think 
it would  be fair to require  Aviva to pay for a replacement carpet but I think it should pay Mr B 
the likely  cost of a repair.
I dont think Aviva treated  Mr B unfairly  or unreasonably in only accepting  the damage to the 
bedroom carpet and bathroom lino as accidental.
In Mr Bs policy the excess for accidental damage is £100 for each claim. Although Mr B 
discovered this accidental damage at the same  time, its not clear whether both instances of 
damage happened as part of one event and so form one claim. Because  the damage was in 
different rooms I think its likely that it wasnt the same event. That means I dont  think  Aviva 
treated Mr B unfairly in applying a separate excess to each accidental damage  claim.
Certain things were missing from the property after the tenants left. They  are a folding door 
and two sets of blinds. Aviva accepted  that the blinds had been stolen. Where  items are 
missing, I think  its more  likely than not that the tenant took them when they left the property 
and so these should form part of a theft claim. The excess for theft is £100. I think  its likely 
that these items were  stolen at the same time and so should be classed as one claim with 
one excess applied to the whole of the theft claim.
Aviva accepted the claim for the folding door and applied an excess  of £100.  Its not clear  to 
me whether Aviva was treating this as a claim for accidental damage or theft. I think  its more  
likely that the door was removed because it was damaged rather than stolen and that the 
damage didnt  happen  as part of the other accidental damage to Mr Bs property. That 
means I dont think Aviva  treated Mr B unfairly in applying a separate excess to this damage 
claim.
The parties responded to my provisional  decision. Aviva accepted it. Mr B didnt. In summary 
Mr B made the following  points:
He wasnt happy that my decision was different from that of the adjudicator.
Because he wasnt  living in the property at the time the damage  happened it wasnt 
possible for him to prove that all the accidental damage happened at the same time.
The policy wording  implied that only one excess would  be applied  for claims at each 
property. He queried the basis  on which Aviva  could apply one excess  for each separate 
peril.
The terms malicious damage and accidental damage should be interpreted in favour  of 
the consumer.  He queried  where  Avivas definition of accidental damage  as a sudden  
and unexpected event caused  by an outside force  had come from.
The property  was in a good state of repair before the tenancy began.
Hed told his insurance broker that hed intended to replace the carpet and dispose of the 
damaged one. No-one told him that he shouldnt do that. It wasnt practicable to get a 
quote to repair  the carpet as it had been  destroyed.
The lounge curtains cant be repaired and should  be replaced.
His broker hadnt sent him a copy of the policy.
Ref: DRN57675253If the folding door had been damaged,  the tenants should have reported this to the letting 
agent as a fault.
The tenants had done things which  were  in breach of their tenancy  agreement.
He thought the damage caused  by decorating was malicious because the act to decorate  
was a deliberate act.
Aviva accepted my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a complaint is referred  to me, Ill carry out a new and independent  review  of the 
complaint and make up my own mind about  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As our adjudicator explained to Mr B, that means  its possible  Ill reach  a different conclusion 
from that of the person whos previously looked  at the complaint.
Ive considered carefully the wording of Mr Bs policy. In it there are two definitions of 
excess relevant to this claim. The first is Property Damage Excess. This is defined as:
The amount (or amounts)  shown  in the Schedule which  We will deduct  from each and every  
claim at separate  premises  in respect  of contingencies 1 to 14 and 16.
Malicious damage is contingency  7 and theft is 13. So I think the Property Damage Excess  
applies to Mr Bs claims for malicious damage  and theft. This excess is £100.
Accidental Damage  is contingency 17. Since the Property Damage Excess doesnt apply, 
Ive looked to see whether there  is any other excess which would  apply. At the beginning of 
the policy there are some definitions applying to the whole of the policy. One of these is 
Excess/Excesses.  The definition is:
The amount or amounts  shown in Your policy or the Schedule which  We deduct from each 
and every claim.
This excess is also £100.
What I need to decide is whether Mr B has made  one claim which includes different types of 
loss or damage (malicious,  accidental  and theft) or several claims for malicious damage, 
accidental damage  or theft. 
The policy has different  types of cover   Asset Protection, Revenue  Protection and others.  
The loss or damage  claimed by Mr B falls under the heading of Asset  Protection.
Clause 47 of this section says:
In respect  of all claims  made following Damage by
(a) storm or flood
(b) escape of water  from any tank apparatus  or pipe
(c) earthquake
for the purpose  of the application of the Excess all claims arising within  a 72 hour period will 
be regarded as one event.
Ref: DRN57675254I think if Aviva had intended a series  of connected  claims following malicious or accidental  
damage or theft to be regarded as one event, it would have specifically said so. Since it 
didnt, that implies to me that according  to the wording of the policy  the series of connected 
events Mr B is claiming for shouldnt be treated as one event just because they all took place 
at the same  premises. That means it wasnt unfair  of Aviva in my view to apply more than 
one excess.
I wouldnt consider  it fair though if Aviva had applied a separate excess  to accidental  
damage that had happened as part of one event.  I appreciate that its difficult for Mr B to 
show that all the damage  happened at the same  time. This is often an issue  in claims for 
rental properties. So when looking at a complaint  relating  to this, I have to decide  whats  
more likely to have  happened.  In the absence of other evidence because  in this case  the 
accidental damage  was in different rooms, I think its more  likely than not that it happened  at 
different times. That means Aviva was entitled  to apply one excess  to each of Mr Bs claims.
As previously explained, Im satisfied Avivas interpretation of the terms malicious  damage  
and accidental  damage  was fair and reasonable.
I dont doubt that the property was in a good state  of repair  before  the tenancy  began but 
unfortunately for Mr B, that doesnt mean Aviva has treated him unfairly  with regard to the 
damage that its said is covered by the policy. 
Mr Bs agent  inspected the property on 28 December 2017. Mr B made a claim through  his 
broker not long after. On 18 January the broker received a response  on the claim. It said the 
claim for accidental damage to the bathroom lino and bedroom carpet would  be accepted 
and added:
Please  note in respect  of damage to flooring we will always look to restore  in the first 
instance before replacing.
If Mr B chose  to go ahead and dispose of the carpet, I think  that was at his own risk. So I 
dont think that means  Aviva should  replace it. In any event the policy says that the basis  of 
claim settlement where property is damaged is replacement or repair  of the damaged 
portion to a condition  as good as, but not better  or more extensive than, its condition when 
new. Although the carpet  has been disposed of, I dont think that prevents Aviva from 
estimating what a suitable repair  would  have cost.
So I think Aviva  is entitled to choose  to repair the damaged  items.  If, however, the ripped  
curtains cant be restored to as good  as new, then Aviva should replace them.
If Mr B didnt receive a copy  of his policy from his broker, thats not something I can fairly 
hold Aviva responsible  for.
I appreciate that Mr Bs tenant  has breached various parts of the tenancy agreement, in 
particular he wasnt allowed the redecorate the property. But that in itself doesnt mean that 
the damage caused by doing that is covered by the policy   there  has to be an insured 
event. Unfortunately for Mr B the redecoration isnt classed as malicious  or accidental 
damage for the purpose  of his policy.
I dont dispute  that Mr Bs tenant deliberately redecorated the property. The question  is why 
he did that. If his main purpose  was to cause damage to Mr Bs property, then that would be 
Ref: DRN57675255malicious damage and covered by the policy. But for the reasons explained in my provisional 
findings, I dont  think this was the tenants  main  purpose. I think  they just wanted to change  
the property to suit their own taste and/or needs.  It follows  I dont think  Aviva treated  Mr B 
unfairly in saying he wasnt entitled  to claim for this.
my final decision
I uphold this claim in part and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
accept Mr Bs claim for malicious damage to the lounge curtains  subject to the remaining 
policy terms and conditions;
pay Mr B what it would have cost it to repair  his lounge carpet less the policy  excess; and
apply one excess to the claim for theft of both sets of blinds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767525