K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains about a series of errors  caused by Capital One (Europe) plc when she tried 
to pay off and close  her credit card.
background 
Mrs F has a credit  card account with Capital One. In May 2019 she wrote a cheque  to clear 
the outstanding balance.  She explained she wanted  to close  her account as she was 
planning to re-mortgage and wanted  this account showing as settled on her credit  report.
A few days  after Mrs F sent the cheque, she asked Capital One why it hadnt applied it to her 
balance. She was told it may take some  time.  Almost two weeks  after the cheque was sent,  
an amount was applied to her account.  However, an error had occurred, and a different 
cheque had been applied to Mrs Fs account.
Capital One told Mrs F that it had removed the incorrect  cheque  and applied her correct  
cheque to the account  clearing the balance. It left a credit in Mrs Fs account of around £27 
for the inconvenience   which Mrs F withdrew.  However further errors occurred. Capital One 
hadnt removed  the incorrect cheque  and when it later did so, it removed Mrs Fs actual 
payment from the account as well. So, she was left with an outstanding balance  on her 
account again. It was around a month later when Mrs Fs account was up to date. Because 
of the delay, there was a balance on Mrs Fs account of around  £32 which  Capital One 
waived.
Our investigator felt Capital One needed to do more to put things  right, so he upheld this 
complaint. He explained that the errors  caused Mrs F inconvenience and felt Capital One 
should pay her an additional  £75 compensation. Capital One agreed to pay this but Mrs F 
disagreed.
She explained that it took a month for a simple transaction  to take place. And that the delay 
caused her financial  loss. She explained  she wanted  to re-mortgage her home and felt the 
credit card wouldve been affecting her credit score, so she didnt re-mortgage when she 
wanted to. She feels shes  lost out as she couldve been on a better  rate. And shes  also 
said she lost out at potentially getting a better rate on her credit card. She also explained 
shed spent 173 minutes on the phone to Capital One trying to sort it out. Mrs F feels the 
compensation recommended is too low, so she asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Mrs F has submitted a very detailed response to the investigators  view, and I have 
considered all her points carefully,  however  I wont address  each point individually.  Its clear 
there were errors, so my role here is to consider the impact of those errors on Mrs F.
Financial loss
Mrs F has said she feels she has lost out financially as her credit  report wasnt updated until 
two months after she wanted  the account  settled, and this delayed her getting  a new 
mortgage. I dont  think theres enough to show Mrs F suffered  a financial loss here. Credit 
Ref: DRN58224792files can take time to update so theres no guarantee that her credit  file wouldve updated in 
the time she wanted  if the delay hadnt  happened. And Ive seen no evidence that Mrs F was 
unable to get a better  mortgage rate at the time than she was on. So, I dont think  this delay 
has caused her any direct  financial loss in relation  to this. Ive also not seen anything to 
show that Mrs F was applying for a better interest  rate on her credit card at the time. So, 
whilst I appreciate there are things  that could have  happened had there not been a delay, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs F lost out on her mortgage  or credit card rates 
because of the errors Capital One made.
Mrs F has told us she spent 173 minutes on the phone to Capital One and has shown us her 
phone bill. I can imagine the time spent  dealing with this was frustrating, and Ill talk more  
about this below, but I can see that the calls came  out of Mrs Fs available minutes, so I 
dont think theres been  a financial loss here.
Capital One has waived any outstanding balance that was caused  by the delays, so I dont 
think Mrs F has lost out financially because of the errors.
Trouble and upset
Whilst Mrs F hasnt  lost out financially, I can see that the delays caused her some  trouble 
and upset. Capital  One has already paid Mrs F around £27 for this, and it agreed to pay an 
additional £75. I think this total amount is fair. Ill explain  why.
Mrs F had to call Capital  One on numerous  occasions  to find out what happened to her 
payment, and to highlight  that an incorrect payment had been  applied. Even after this there  
were further  errors and I think  this wouldve caused  Mrs F some anxiety about when her card 
would be repaid. I also think it wouldve caused her frustration, particularly considering there  
were so many errors. So, I think  the additional £75 is reasonable to compensate Mrs F for 
this trouble and upset.  As Capital One has already paid her around £27 this brings the total 
compensation up to just over £100.
I understand Mrs F feels that this compensation is too low, but I dont think  it would be fair for 
Capital One to pay her over this amount. Whilst frustrating to sort out, I can see that Capital 
One did resolve the problem and called her back when it said it would. It took longer than it 
should have, but the situation has been  resolved  without causing too much impact on 
Mrs Fs finances  or her credit file. I understand she was very keen to have the balance paid 
off, and this delay meant it took longer when it shouldnt have. But I think an additional £75 is 
reasonable to address this mistake.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc must pay 
Mrs F an additional  £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN58224793
Ref: DRN5822479