K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Smart Driver Insurance Limited unfairly increased  its quote for his motor  
insurance policy and took the increased  amount from his bank account without telling him.
background
Mr B went  on a price comparison website in February 2019 to obtain a quote for his 
forthcoming annual  motor insurance  policy. He found a policy  with an insurer  arranged 
through Smart Driver  acting as broker. He was quoted an annual  premium of £775.39. 
About five days later, Mr B accepted the quote. He was surprised to find shortly  after that 
that Smart  Driver had debited his account by £886.68. Mr B complained  to Smart Driver. He 
said he understood the quote hed got was valid for 30 days. And he said hed not been  told 
about the price  increase before the money was debited from his account. Mr B said he 
wanted Smart Driver to honour the original  quote. 
Smart Driver  investigated Mr Bs complaint. It said the quotes Mr B had obtained on the price 
comparison website hadnt included his vehicles registration number. It said this meant the 
quote wasnt fully complete  when it came through to its website. It said it only guaranteed to 
honour quotes for 30 days if the information  in the quote is complete. It said that was 
because prices change  daily.  It said that when Mr B had taken the decision to proceed with 
the quote he entered his vehicle registration  on its website. It said that as its quote  system 
didnt have a guaranteed price it could  display (because of the updated information provided) 
it provided him with a new quote. It said its rates had also changed in the time in between.  
Smart Driver  apologised for not noticing  what had happened when Mr B first contacted  it to 
query the premium.  But it said the entering of the registration number had led to the price 
increase. It said the original price comparison quotes hadnt included  the vehicle registration. 
But it said because it hadnt  spotted what had happened when hed first complained it was 
prepared to refund 50% of the difference in premium as a gesture of goodwill (between 
£775.39 and £886.68)  which came  to £55.64. 
Mr B was unhappy with the outcome of Smart Drivers investigation so he complained to this 
service. He said whilst a registration number may not have been displayed, the correct  
vehicle details (make,  model number etc.) were shown. So he said the quote  was based on 
the correct car. He also thought the price comparison site had likely stored his vehicle 
registration from previous  searches hed done.  Mr B also complained that the quote he got 
hadnt been honoured despite accepting  it within 30 days and the vehicle cited  being correct. 
He thought Smart Driver had stolen the extra  money and that its website  was misleading 
because any price  change wasnt clearly visible. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Bs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She 
thought the fact Smart Driver had the correct vehicle details meant  it shouldve  honoured the 
quote. She recommended that it refund the full difference in price  between the two quotes. 
Smart Driver  disagreed  with our adjudicator. It said was made clear at the point of quote  that 
it was only valid for 30 days if no information  changed. It said the registration  number is 
important because it can see the specific vehicle history. 
As our adjudicator wasnt  persuaded  to change her mind the complaint was passed  to me for 
a decision. 
Ref: DRN53421922I issued a provisional decision on this case in August  2019.  I made  the following provisional 
findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Insurers all assess  risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another. Insurers 
will also use different data when  assessing the risk posed. But thats not unfair.  We wouldnt  
generally tell Smart Driver (or any insurer)  that it should, or shouldnt, use specific  data. The 
risk is Smart Drivers to take on so it will decide what information  it wants to know  and how it 
will assess it and will charge a price accordingly.
And insurers can only produce quotes  based on the information  they are given.  And different 
insurers will take different  factors into account  when calculating the premiums  they wish to 
charge. What is important  to one insurer may not be important  to another. But providing 
each insurer applies its internal criteria consistently and fairly, and doesnt single any of its 
customers out in any way then this service  wont typically interfere in how they choose to 
assess the risks theyre being asked to take on. 
Here Smart Driver, administering the policy for the insurer,  promised to guarantee the quote 
if none of the information  changed.  But as part of the quotation process  it sought  the vehicle 
registration number.  It wanted that information  so it could see the specific vehicle history. I 
know that Mr B thinks the fact hed input the make and type of car should be enough for 
Smart Driver  to honour the original quote  but Im unable  to agree. Thats because the 
decision about what to take into account  and how to rate it is Smart Drivers. And two cars 
which are the same  make and model may have very different histories which  would affect 
how an insurer rated them and the premium they generated. The initial quote was based on 
incomplete information so when the full information was provided to Smart Driver by Mr B it 
meant a new quote was generated. And it is not unreasonable to think the price Mr B got on 
the first quote wouldve  been different if the registration number had been input initially by 
him.  
So Im unable to agree with Mr B that the make  and model was sufficient information for 
Smart Driver  to honour the quote. It says the vehicle registration is important and I dont 
think thats unreasonable. 
Smart Driver  has said that it honours quotes  providing no information changes  prior to 
acceptance. I dont  think thats unreasonable either. If the information presented changes 
between the quote being given and accepted then the risk that Smart Driver is being  asked 
to insure also changes.  And Im unable to agree that it would be fair in such  circumstances 
to hold Smart Driver to a price based on different information that affected  how it rated the 
policy. When Mr B went to purchase his policy it effectively generated a brand new quote 
because of the new information  provided.  Ive seen the screen  shot from Smart Drivers 
website that shows  the new price  was clearly displayed
Market prices do move on a daily basis and its unfortunate for Mr B that this went against 
him but it isnt something this service  could interfere with. Both Smart Driver and the insurer 
have said that if the registration number had been inputted on the price comparison site then 
Ref: DRN53421923the quote given wouldve been honoured even with a rise in market  prices. Without it though,  
a new quote based on the current live market  rate, was generated. 
So I dont  think that Smart  Driver has treated Mr B unfairly by not honouring the original 
quote. Nor do I think its been  unfair  by requiring and relying  on his vehicle registration  
number when calculating  the price of his policy. I think Smart Driver has treated Mr B 
reasonably by refunding 50% of the difference between the two prices  quoted  and I cant 
fairly require  it to pay him anymore.
Smart Driver  didnt respond  to my provisional  decision. Mr B replied and made  the following 
points: 
He entered  his car registration  number into the price comparison site but it may not have 
transferred to Smart  Drivers  website;
He asked Smart Driver repeatedly what the changes to his premium  were as a result of 
his registration  number being declared. Smart Driver said the vehicle model had 
changed which led to the price increase;
The vehicle the original quote  was based on is exactly the same as the one ultimately 
insured so he doesnt understand what has changed. If Smart Driver could explain it, he 
would be happy to pay the increased  premium;
His driving history was never a factor in the price change;
Smart  Driver  has never provided  specific reasons for the price changed despite  him 
repeatedly asking;
That I had said that additional information  can be obtained from provision  of the vehicle 
registration number  such as his driving history. But he has always  been honest about  his 
driving record so if it is the reason the price increased he wants to know  what  was 
revealed by the provision of the registration  number  to influence the price charged:
Smart  Drivers website is poorly  designed  so that the price  increase isnt clear. It wasnt   
until his credit card statement arrived that he discovered hed been charged more;
He wants clear  evidence about what changed when he provided his registration number 
to cause the premium  to go up.
The complaint was passed  back to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Im grateful for Mr Bs comments 
in response to my provisional decision theyve not persuaded  me to change  my mind.  Ill 
explain why.
The evidence Ive seen  indicates that the registration number wasnt  inputted  on the price 
comparison site. 
Smart Driver  said in its final response letter that the price change  was due to a change that 
occurred to market  rates  in the period between Mr B obtaining  the original quote and 
deciding he wished to proceed.  And also to the fact the original quote didnt include a vehicle 
registration number.  This meant the original  quote was based  on incomplete information.  As 
that was the case  Smart Driver was unable to honour the original quote. As I said in my 
provisional decision, if full information had been  originally declared then it is not 
unreasonable to assume that it wouldve yielded a different price and not the £775.39  
Ref: DRN53421924originally quoted. But if full information  had been declared at the outset then the price that 
wouldve been generated wouldve been  honoured. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  what factors an insurer  wishes to take into account 
when deciding what price  to charge for the risk its being asked to take on is a matter  for the 
insurer. If an insurer wants to know the vehicle registration number then that is its choice. 
This service doesnt typically  interfere  in such matters. Only if there was evidence that an 
insurer wasnt applying its criteria fairly  to all its customers would we do so. And theres  no 
evidence that thats what happened  here.  
The vehicle registration number was information  that Smart Driver wanted. Thats because it 
can then check the specific vehicle history. It cant do that if it only has the make and model 
of the vehicle. The fact it wanted that information isnt unreasonable. 
Smart Driver  hasnt said the vehicle  model changed,  only that it could see the history specific 
to Mr Bs actual vehicle once it had the registration  number.  Thats  information it takes into 
account when  deciding what price to charge.
Theres no evidence that Ive seen that Mr Bs driving history was a factor  that caused the 
price change. So I agree with him about  this point.  But the history specific to his vehicle  (as a 
result of him declaring  the registration) was a factor. Specific vehicle history is different from 
personal driving history. The change to market  rates  in the intervening  period  was the other  
reason the price increased. And these are the reasons given by Smart  Driver. So I cant 
agree with Mr B that Smart Driver has never  explained to him why the price went up.
Ive seen a screenshot from Smart Drivers website  the price prior to purchase was clearly  
displayed. 
I cant reasonably require Smart Driver to honour the original  quote  as Mr B wants. To do so, 
for the reasons given above, wouldnt be fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342192