K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc have recorded  a CIFAS marker against  his name. 
CIFAS is the UKs  fraud prevention agency.
background
In June 2018 Mr Ls account was credited with £5,750 from a third party.  This money  was 
paid out of Mr Ls account within  a day of being  received.  Lloyds received information  that 
these funds had been fraudulently obtained.  Lloyds  suspended Mr Ls account  whilst they 
investigated. 
They asked Mr L to provide proof of entitlement to the funds and told him of their intention to 
close his account.  Mr L wasnt  able to satisfy Lloyds  that he was entitled to the funds and his 
account was closed. Lloyds also added a CIFAS  marker against Mr Ls name.
Mr L doesnt think hes been treated fairly.  He says the money paid into his account came 
from a friend  who was repaying £2,750  towards  a loan and asking him to pass £3,000  to his 
friends brother. Hes unhappy with the impact the CIFAS marker is having on him, so he 
complained. He would like it to be removed.
Lloyds maintained theyd acted correctly,  so Mr L referred the matter  to our service.  One of 
our investigators didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. As he still disagrees, Mr L has 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Im satisfied that the funds in question were  originally obtained fraudulently.  The bank in 
question will have established this with their customer  before  reporting it to Lloyds.
Mr L explained that he entered into a finance  agreement to fund a kitchen on behalf of a 
friend of his, who would  then pay him back. Hes provided some evidence of this credit 
agreement and of the initial repayments made  by his friend.  He says the friend then stopped 
paying him and hadnt done so for some time until the transaction in question. 
I accept that Mr L entered into a finance agreement for a kitchen and there is evidence to 
support that a kitchen was delivered  to his friends address. I can also see that the credit  
agreement was paid by Mr L and that in the following months there  were  some credits to his 
account from his friend. 
But the credit agreement was for £1,750, not the £2,750 that was paid (after  the £3,000 Mr L 
says was for him to pass on). When this difference was pointed  out Mr L said the £1,000  
was the labour cost and that he didnt have a receipt  for this as it was paid in cash. But this 
hadnt previously  been mentioned by Mr L. 
Overall, I dont  find Mr Ls testimony to be reliable  evidence.  The sums hes mentioned  and 
evidenced in relation  to the finance  agreement dont correlate to the amount of money he 
received from his friend. If I were to accept  that the transfer in question  was to repay a loan 
Ref: DRN56380892(which I dont), then Mr Ls friend significantly overpaid. I just dont think  its plausible  that 
both Mr L and his friend  forgot that around  £800 of payments had already been made over 
the course of a few months.
I also have concerns as to why Mr Ls friend  would  want  to transfer him money to pass on to 
his brother. I think its likely that his friend could have transferred  the money directly without 
needing to involve him. 
Mr L also very promptly removed all the fraudulent funds from his account with Lloyds. 
Initially by transferring £2,750 out the same day it arrived and then by withdrawing £3,000  in 
cash the following  day. 
I dont think the version of events Mr L has presented to both Lloyds and our service is 
plausible. So overall, I dont think Lloyds were being  unreasonable in refusing  to accept the 
information presented  to them as entitlement to the funds  in question. 
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. But I think  there would have been good 
grounds to report the events here to the police to investigate,  and I think  that Lloyds  were  
therefore justified  in placing the CIFAS marker  against Mr Ls name. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5638089