K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a car he was financing through an agreement with First Response  
Finance Ltd (First Response) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a used car in October  2018. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with First Response. At the point of supply the car had completed 
39,273 miles and was six years old.
But Mr T immediately noticed problems with the car. He took it back  to the dealership and 
they directed him to a third party garage who the warranty  was with. There  was some  delay  
before an inspection could take place. 
Mr T subsequently  complained to First Response.  He explained that the garage had now 
inspected the car and suggested wheel bearings needed replacing; the tracking was out; the 
airbags didnt work and there  was water in a headlight. Mr T added  that the vehicle was 
losing power and the service light was intermittently illuminating. He also explained  that the 
locking wheel nuts were missing.  He asked First Response  to allow  him to reject the car.
First Direct  arranged  for another third party inspection to clarify the issues. The garage  said:
washer jets needed re-aligning
the flexible  exhaust pipe needed  changing
front brake discs  were worn and slipped
rear brakes had been subject to excess heat and were discoloured
brake callipers were  stuck on
near side tyre was worn
tracking needed resetting
track  rod end was splitting and perished
a tyre was cracking between treads
an oil leak around the gearbox needed investigation
brake fluid needed changing
front and rear wipers  werent cleaning windows
engine management  light illuminated for misfiring and thermostat housing
fault code  - engine  misfire detection
fault code  - engine  coolant thermostat control  circuit-history
First Response accepted  that theyd need  to repair the car but they didnt think Mr T should 
be allowed to reject it.
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided her opinion.  She 
thought there was evidence that Mr T had complained about problems very early on and she 
didnt think it was fair to suggest he should  have experienced so many issues  with the car so 
soon. She understood that some  of the problems that had been identified  were to do with 
wear and tear but she thought others;  such as the oil leak and thermostat  problems, werent. 
So she thought the best solution wouldve been to allow Mr T to reject  his vehicle. But she 
noted that First Response had repossessed it as Mr T had refused to pay any further  
instalments towards  his finance agreement. She understood that at that point  the car had 
completed 3,015 additional  miles and that Mr T had paid a total of two finance agreements  
Ref: DRN51131342and, all things considered, she therefore  thought a reasonable solution  would  be for Mr T to 
pay no further instalments  and for First Response to remove any adverse reports  they may 
have made  to his credit  file.
But First Response didnt agree. They said that they were only entitled by law to provide a 
repair and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then First Response is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply and Id agree. The dispute  now appears to be about what First Response  need to 
do to make things right.
Im persuaded that Mr T reported issues with his car on the day he took receipt  of it. The 
issues he complained  of at the time regarding  misfiring, loss of power  and a humming  noise 
from the wheels  would  appear consistent with the subsequent findings  from both third party  
garages. They identified misfiring and over heated brakes that were seized on.
I understand that the faults took a little time to identify but that doesnt mean Mr T hadnt 
reported them. Im persuaded he did so immediately and the relevant law therefore allowed 
him a short term right to reject the car within the first thirty days  because it was faulty.  
He didnt ask First Response to repair the vehicle  and Im persuaded that he always wanted 
to reject it as Ive seen  his communication with First Response  in which  he made that clear.
And even  if Im wrong  in law I think rejection would be the fairest resolution here anyway. 
There were a host of issues identified with this six year old car that I dont think a reasonable  
person would think was acceptable. Some of those issues were wear  related, such  as the 
wiper blade faults.  But others were clearly not, and I think it would be reasonable to say they 
were unacceptable  on a car of this age and mileage.  In particular I would  note the engine 
misfiring; overheated  brakes and the gearbox  leak that was in need of further investigation. 
So if Mr T still had the car I would  expect First Response  to allow  him to reject it and to 
terminate his finance agreement with them. Id also look to them  to refund some finance 
instalments to compensate Mr T for his loss of use.
Ref: DRN51131343Here I think the amount  Mr T has already paid seems a fair contribution to the 3,000 or so 
troubled miles he was able to complete in the car. I dont  think he should be asked to pay 
anymore. 
The issues  were not of his making  and have resulted  in him disputing further payments 
towards his agreement. It wouldnt  be fair for the dispute to impact on his credit  score 
because he wouldnt have  needed  to dispute  matters if First Response  had provided 
adequate redress  earlier. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell First Response Finance  Ltd 
to:
end the finance agreement with no further payments due
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ts credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5113134