K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies in 1999 and 2001.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained about  the sale of an earlier  PPI policy in 1989.  The 
complaint about  the sale of the 1989 policy is being dealt with under a different  reference 
number.
This decision only deals  with the PPI policies sold in 1999 and 2001.
background 
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint loan in 1999. At the same time they were  sold a PPI policy.  
The policy covered Mr H only against  not being  able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The cost of the PPI policy was £9.86  per month. If Mr H made  a successful 
claim, the PPI policy would cover  the monthly repayment amount of £106.86.  This would  
have been paid for up to 12 months  for unemployment claims and up to 60 months  for 
claims for accident or sickness.
In 2001 Mr and Mrs H took out a new loan. Part of the loan was used to clear the earlier 
1999 loan. Again they were sold a PPI policy which covered only Mr H. The cost of the 
second PPI policy was £10.47  per month. If Mr H made  a successful claim, the PPI policy  
would cover the monthly repayment amount of £111.41. This would have been paid for up 
to 12 months  for unemployment claims and up to 60 months for claims for accident or
sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaints. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaints have been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H took out the loans  and the PPI during  meetings  at a Halifax branch. They  say 
that it wasnt made clear  to them that the PPI was optional. I cant  know  for sure what  was 
said during the meeting. So Ive thought carefully  about what both Halifax and Mr and Mrs H 
have told us, along with the documents available. 
Halifax has been able to give us copies of the loan application form and credit agreement  for 
both loans.
I can see that on the application forms there are two boxes, one to accept PPI and one to 
decline PPI. I can see that on both application  forms Mr H has signed  in the box to take out 
PPI while  the box to decline PPI is left blank.
Ref: DRN54714562I can also see that on both credit agreements that Mr and Mrs H signed,  the monthly cost of 
the PPI premiums is set out separately.  
So considering everything Ive seen,  I think its most  likely  Halifax  made Mr and Mrs H aware 
that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it out. 
Halifax has told us that its representative  shouldve given Mr and Mrs H advice about the 
policies. In that case the representative had to take steps to make sure they were  right for 
them. Ive thought about this and I think the policies  were  suitable for the following reasons:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI, meeting the eligibility criteria for his age, employment  status  
and where he lived.  So he would be able to make  a claim on the policy if needed.
Mr H has said that he wouldve received six months  full pay from his employer, followed by 
six months half pay if he was too ill to work.  So he feels he didnt need the policy.  But these 
particular PPI policies  couldve paid a benefit  for up to 60 months if hed been unable  to 
work. It couldve  lasted a lot longer than his sick pay so I think  Mr H would still find the 
benefit useful  particularly if he couldnt work for a prolonged  period.
And the policies couldve  covered the loan repayments for up to twelve  months if Mr H lost 
his job. Meaning  he could use any redundancy pay for other outgoings.
Mr and Mrs H have told us they had savings in an ISA they could have used if Mr H couldnt 
work. But as Mr and Mrs H were taking out loans rather  than using their savings it looks  like 
they wanted to keep  the savings intact.  And the PPI wouldve  allowed  them  to do that if 
things went wrong.
The cost of the policies was shown  on the loan agreements. So I think  Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for them.  
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford the PPI.
The policies contained some exclusions, for example they didnt cover medical conditions 
that Mr H was already  aware of. But Mr H doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of 
those things. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs H clear  enough information about  the policies for 
them to decide  if they wanted them. Its possible  Halifax didnt explain some  things  as clearly 
as it shouldve. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr and Mrs H agreed  to the PPI so it looks  
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it looks to me as if the cover was right for them given 
their circumstances. So I think  clearer information, wouldnt have stopped them  going ahead  
and taking out the policies. So I dont think Mr and Mr H lost out as a result of anything 
Halifax may have done wrong.
In summary  I think its likely the PPI policies  were presented to Mr and Mrs H as being 
optional. And I think they chose to take the policies out. From what  Ive seen the PPI policies 
that Halifax recommended were  right for them  given  their circumstances. And even if Halifax 
had given Mr and Mrs H all the clear  information  it should have, I still think  theyd have gone 
ahead and bought the policies.
Ref: DRN54714563my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and I make  no award 
against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5471456