K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited has declined a claim made under a private 
medical insurance policy.
background
Mr D has the benefit  of a medical insurance scheme  through his employer. He joined the 
scheme on 1 February 2018.
In late 2018 Mr D made a claim on his policy to cover the cost of a tonsillectomy he was 
advised he needed. Vitality declined to cover this procedure because it said the reason  why 
Mr D needed the procedure was due to a pre-existing  medical  condition.  
Mr D says Vitality  has unfairly declined his claim. Our investigator didnt think Vitality  had 
done anything  wrong. Mr D disagrees so his complaint has been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh, and to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Mr D will be very disappointed by this but I hope hell understand my reasons.
A moratorium was applied to Mr Ds policy. That means under the policy Vitality wont pay for 
treatment of any medical condition or related condition  which  in the five years before Mr Ds 
joined the scheme (i.e. 1 February  2018)  hed:
-had medical treatment for;
-had symptoms of;
-asked advice on; or
-were aware existed, to the best of his knowledge. 
The terms of the policy say any such condition and /or related condition  amounts to a 
pre-existing medical condition.
Under certain circumstances a pre-existing condition can become eligible for cover two 
years after Mr D joined the scheme. But those circumstances arent relevant to this particular 
complaint. 
The claim form Vitality  received notifying it of Mr Ds claim under the policy  contained a GPs 
statement dated November 2018.  The GP describes  Mr Ds symptoms as nasal congestion, 
snoring, throat discomfort and voice disturbance . 
In the part of the claim form completed by Mr D he describes his symptoms as: sinus and 
throat issues  inflamed,  sore throat  sinus and swallowing problems . This isnt 
inconsistent with what his GP says although Mr D doesnt make particular mention to snoring 
and says his symptoms started  in June 2018 rather than June 2016  as stipulated  by the GP.
All in all, Im satisfied  that the reason why Mr D was advised to have a tonsillectomy  during 
the latter part of 2018 was due to symptoms hed been experiencing in the five years prior to 
Ref: DRN52323582him joining the scheme on 1 February  2018,  rather than symptoms that first started in June 
2018 as Mr D says. Ill explain why.
A letter from Mr Ds ear, nose and throat  (ENT) Consultant to his GP dated  May 2016  so 
before Mr D joined the scheme - says Mr D has longstanding problems with nasal 
obstruction / congestion  and snoring.  He also mentions Mr D has grade 2 tonsils. This 
indicates his tonsils  are quite enlarged and partially  obstructing his airway.
Mr D underwent septoplasty in June 2016.  Despite this operation,  when making a referral  for 
Mr D to see a different ENT surgeon in September 2018, Mr Ds GP says he has ongoing 
sinus congestion and irritation,  which contributes to an occasional tickly cough. 
A week later that ENT surgeon reports that shes met with Mr D and he continues  to have 
problems with nostril congestion  and continues  to snore loudly. She also says he gets quite 
frequent throat discomfort and has quite enlarged unhealthy tonsils. She goes  on to say that:
theres room for improvement but it may not be possible  to entirely  cure all of his 
symptoms.  
She advises  that Mr D could try different nasal sprays, and nasal flushing techniques, but 
concludes:
he may also be helped generally by a tonsillectomy, both from a snoring and an 
airway point of view as well as his discomfort.
So all in all Im satisfied that the medical evidence supports that the symptoms Mr D was 
experiencing - as reported in September 2018  and which required him needing a  
tonsillectomy - were  present in the five years  leading up to when he joined the scheme.  
When making this finding Ive taken into account the letters  from Mr Ds GP and ENT 
consultant dated November 2018  written after Vitality initially turned down his claim. Both 
are of the opinion that Mr Ds previous  nasal  / sinus congestion problems are unrelated  to 
the problems he was having with his throat. 
But these  letters make no specific  reference  to Mr Ds snoring, which  hed been suffering 
from within the five years  of joining the scheme. And thats one of the reasons a 
tonsillectomy was advised by the ENT surgeon in September 2018. And even if I accepted  
that his nasal congestion and throat  issues were  unconnected, based on the medical 
evidence from May 2016 (referred  to above),  Im satisfied  Mr Ds tonsils were partially 
obstructing his airway  within  the five years  before he joined the scheme. And thats one of 
the other reasons why surgery was recommended  to help with his airway. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Ref: DRN52323583David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232358