K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with PPI in June  1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Their main  complaint is that they thought  they had to have PPI to get the 
mortgage they wanted and only agreed to it on that basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs N took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
everything theyve told us about  their circumstances at the time.  
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Halifax hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs N from this sale. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed many years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to have  kept records about a closed  account  for so long. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs N might be able to remember about  
the sale after such a long time.   
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  number of 
years. Their home  wouldve  been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection.  So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have. 
Mr and Mrs N were both eligible for PPI. On balance, I think its likely that they decided they 
wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy.  
Halifax recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs N. If a business makes a recommendation about  
PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important policy information in a clear  way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So Ive looked carefully 
at what Mr and Mrs N told us about their situation  at the time to see if PPI was right for them 
when they took out this mortgage.   
PPI protected  Mr and Mrs N in the event of unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. 
Ref: DRN54624572And the policy wouldve also protected their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if 
either of them  had an accident  or was too sick or disabled to work. Mr and Mrs N told us they 
couldve both depended on getting sick pay for at least 6 months. But the policy  wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay received through work. This couldve been useful  
particularly if they faced extra costs as a result of illness  or disability.   
I dont know if they wouldve always had savings to rely on if theyd  needed to make a claim. 
Mr and Mrs N couldve made repeated claims on the policy  after a qualifying  period back  at 
work. So it offered  them long term mortgage  protection. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs N 
could be sure theyd  be able to keep up the monthly repayments  in order to protect  their 
home. I think  that wouldve been an important  consideration when they were  buying their 
new house. So I can see why Mr and Mrs N mightve wanted PPI  even  if theyve forgotten  
this now. 
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So I think PPI was suitable for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. 
The mortgage was based on Mr and Mrs N both being in work when they took it out. I dont 
know how easy it wouldve been for Mr and Mrs N to keep  up the mortgage monthly 
repayments if either of them couldnt work  because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
So it seems  reasonable  that the benefit  was split between them.
Based on all the information Ive seen it doesnt  look like Mr and Mrs N were affected  by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover.
Ive taken into account that Mrs N would only have  been able to make  an unemployment 
claim under the policy once she had been working  continuously for 12 months  and shed 
only been in her current job around a month  or so when the mortgage started. But the policy 
didnt require her to have worked for her present employer  all that time.  And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest she hadnt been working elsewhere before she started  her new job. 
Even if there  mightve  been  a delay before Mrs N qualified to make an unemployment claim, 
she could still have  benefitted from all the other aspects  of the policy.  The mortgage was set 
up to run for 25 years. So I dont feel that Mrs Ns circumstances  wouldve made  a PPI 
recommendation unsuitable. Given the long term security the policy offered  them,  and the 
risks of not protecting  their mortgage repayments in their circumstances, I think  it unlikely 
that better  advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve 
affected Mr and Mrs Ns decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs N when they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And this was a 
policy they paid for monthly  so they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs N still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed  as the 
policy gave them useful  protection  in their particular situation. So I dont find theyve lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that Halifax did wrong.
Ref: DRN54624573my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5462457