K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2002. Mrs M says Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold her PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On her behalf, Mrs Ms representative disagreed  with these findings. It has reiterated Mrs 
Ms comments that PPI was not discussed with her, and that she was not aware that it had 
been added  to her credit  card.
The representative has also highlighted that the credit card application shows that Mrs M 
was working part time when she took the policy out. It says that Mrs M maintains  that she 
was working less than 16 hours per week when sold the policy, and suggests that 
consequently she would  not have  been  eligible for it. The representative has commented 
that if the policy had been  clearly explained  to Mrs M, taking into account  her circumstances, 
she would  not have taken it out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Bank  of Scotland  made  it clear  that Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered 
Mrs Ms comments that she cannot  recall PPI being  discussed  with her at this time. 
However, I am mindful  that the sale occurred a number of years ago, in my opinion  
making it more difficult to recall in detail.
On the application form, under a section  entitled  Protecting your payments, there  was a 
statement confirming that the applicant wanted to take out PPI. The box selecting  PPI 
was ticked, and Mrs M also signed this section separately. Overall my view is that the 
weight of evidence  suggests PPI was presented  as an optional  product, and that Mrs M 
agreed to take it out.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check  that it was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.Mrs Ms representative has stated that she was working less than 16 hours  per week 
when she took out the policy, meaning  she wasnt eligible for it. I note that on the credit  
card application,  Mrs M was noted as being in part time work. However, to be eligible for 
the policy, Mrs M had to be in work , and to meet  that definition  she had to be working 
for remuneration and paying Class 1 National Insurance contributions.  Based on the 
earnings that Mrs M entered on the application form, my understanding  is that she would 
Ref: DRN54989142have been paying the relevant  National  Insurance  contributions. The policy  did not 
include a minimum requirement  for weekly hours worked. On balance  my view is that 
Mrs M was eligible for the policy.  
 Taking into account Mrs Ms existing means  to meet  the card repayments  if she wasnt  
working, I consider  that she would have found the cover useful.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  
this type of cover. It also looks like it was affordable. On balance  I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking out the cover. 
 My conclusion  is that the policy was not mis-sold to Mrs M.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mrs M paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5498914