K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say St Andrews  Insurance  Plc mis-sold them  a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2005 around three months  after taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage in branch (with  a different business) and the PPI policy by 
post.
The policy provided  joint cover for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £843.71 a month towards  Mr and Mrs S 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £50.11 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a Site Foreman.  He has told us he was not entitled to 
any (enhanced) sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage  should 
he be unable  to work. Mr S has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs S was also working at the time and she too told us she was not entitled  to any sick pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying their mortgage should she be unable to work.  . 
Mrs S said she had a medical condition  some time before the time of the sale.  
Mr and Mrs S representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs S representative  says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN59611052The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs S. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. It was also with a third party. That means the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in June 2005 after the sale of general insurance products  like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN59611053In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from businesses,  like St 
Andrews, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so St Andrews  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs S complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN59611054-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
This was a sale by post, which took place  after Mr and Mrs S mortgage started and with a 
different business   the insurer, not the lender. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs S wouldve been 
under the impression they had to have PPI. Mr and Mrs S had to complete a PPI application, 
sign an acceptance form, which set out the key details of the cover  i.e. the cost and the 
benefit level - as well as complete a direct debit  mandate  to allow the premiums  to be taken 
from their bank account.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs S knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs S havent said either 
way. Looking at what happened when St Andrews sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice  Ive not seen  anything  to show or suggest that St 
Andrews considered Mr and Mrs S particular  needs and circumstances and expressed an 
opinion about  whether  the cover was right for them.
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs S to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs S were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment.)  Ive reached  
this conclusion because  I think  this at the very least wouldve been set out in the information  
they received  in the post. I also think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for. 
I also think Mr and Mrs S understood  the cost and the benefit of the policy because this was 
clearly set out in the acceptance  form they were required to sign and return to agree to take 
out the cover (albeit Mr and Mrs S appear to have been amended  upwards the benefit and 
so the cost before the policy started.)  I can see they also had to indicate the percentage 
benefit split they required   in their case 60/40  in favour of Mr S.
Ref: DRN59611055But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs S representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs S. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs S representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs S representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrews  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found St Andrews  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
S. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of either of them  being unable to work. 
Ref: DRN59611056As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs S thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs S were given about  the cost and the benefit  was in my view 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or associated  
symptoms that Mr and Mrs S knew about or ought to have known about at the start 
date of the policy, or had arranged to see a doctor about during the 12 months  before 
the start date (subject to time limits); 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S werent permanent employees; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mrs S says she had a 
medical condition  around  seven  years before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about this exclusion would have  put Mr and Mrs S off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  Mrs S hasnt said that her condition caused her to take any time off work 
or that it continued  to cause problems or was of concern to her leading up to taking out the 
policy. Because of this I dont think shed have thought  her condition would be the main  
reason shed need to claim on the policy. Im mindful too that the exclusion for claiming for 
an existing condition was time limited  (a claim would be considered if Mrs S had been 
symptom free within 24 months  before the claim.) So I dont think its likely  Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve been put off by this exclusion of cover. 
Ref: DRN59611057In addition I havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr and Mrs S wouldve been caught by 
any of the other significant exclusions - so I still think they had some good  reasons to take 
the policy out.
Despite what I said above - I accept back pain and mental health conditions  are common 
problems and the steps required  to make a disability claim for these conditions  were more 
onerous than Mr and Mrs S might reasonably  have  expected. But its unlikely they would 
have expected to be able to make a disability claim  without having to provide some evidence  
to support that claim.  And while this limitation  might have dissuaded some consumers in 
slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy,  Mr and Mrs S, in 
their circumstances, still had some good  reasons  to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do their job or any similar job but also unable to do any job, which  in the insurers  view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr and 
Mrs S circumstances and the limited  other  means they had to make their repayments if they 
werent working, on balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking out the 
cover.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  but 
they didnt have any other means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were made redundant, or unable to work through 
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs 
S would have taken  out the policy in any event despite the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs S representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN59611058Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put them  in 
a better  position than they would have  been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think St Andrews  misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
St Andrews  statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs S, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in June 2005 when providing information  about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs S representative says a court might  take if 
it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs S and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN59611059my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5961105