K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains about the amount of interest  that shes been charged on her loan with 
Mobile Money Limited. 
background
Miss T took out a logbook loan with Mobile Money  in May 2018. The loan was for £500  over 
a term of 18 months. The monthly repayments  were £78.80.  Miss T says Mobile Money 
charged her high interest during  the term of the loan and said it would charge her two 
months worth of interest  if she settled the loan early. In August 2018, Miss T says she fell 
into arrears due to ill health  and Mobile Money  refused to stop the interest  temporarily whilst 
she was bringing  her account  up to date. Miss Ts unhappy with the service she has 
received from Mobile Money. 
Mobile Money says details of the interest  and early  settlement of the loan were set out in the 
loan agreement. It says Miss T requested for her payment dates to be moved on a number 
occasions where it informed her that doing so would incur  interest resulting in her paying  
more over the term of the loan. Mobile Money says it will consider freezing interest where 
there is evidence of long term financial difficulty. It says Miss T hasnt provided any evidence 
of this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and did not uphold it. She thought Mobile  Money 
had charged interest in line with the terms of its agreement  with Miss T. She explained that 
Mobile Money should discuss appropriate help with Miss T if she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. But she felt Miss T hadnt provided  answers to Mobile Moneys questions or any 
evidence, so she didnt  think  it had done anything wrong. 
Miss T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. Miss T added 
that in December 2018 she also requested Mobile  Money to stop charging  her interest as 
she was unable to make a payment on time due to payroll issues  at work. The complaint has 
been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ts complaint. I understand this will come  as a disappointment to Miss T but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Miss T says she was charged high interest  and did not want to be charged late fees. Mobile  
Money says it does not charge late fees but that Miss T will be charged  a higher amount of 
interest on arrears. Miss Ts loan agreement sets out that interest is charged on the balance  
outstanding at any time. This means that should Miss T not meet her monthly repayment on 
the date set out in the agreement then interest will continue to be charged on the balance  
outstanding. So I cant say Miss T was unaware of the higher interest charges that she could 
incur should  her account go into arrears. 
Miss T requested for her payment date to be changed on more than one occasion so this 
wouldve affected the interest  she was being charged.  Mobile Money reminded Miss T of this 
when responding to her email requests to change payment dates. So I think  Mobile  Money 
Ref: DRN58644682acted fairly  - and in line with terms of her agreement, when charging her a higher amount of 
interest.  
Ill now consider whether  Mobile Money shouldve done anything more  to help Miss T meet 
the loan repayments. When a customer is experiencing  financial difficulties, the relevant 
guidelines say that lenders should  treat them positively and sympathetically. So if Miss T 
was experiencing financial  difficulties, I would  expect Mobile Money to take steps  to explore 
how it could support her. 
I can see that by September 2018 Miss Ts account  was in arrears  and she had requested 
for the interest on her account  to be frozen  whilst she brought  her account up to date. Miss T 
says she was suffering  with ill health. Mobile  Money  says it requested  for evidence of 
Miss Ts payslip to identify  how her ill health was impacting  her financially but Miss T did not 
provide this information. Miss Ts account  was up to date by October 2018. 
In December 2018 Miss T again  requested for her interest to be stopped temporarily  due to 
payroll issues at work. She says she couldnt  make that months  payment until the end of the 
month. Mobile Money  explained that it does not freeze interest temporarily  but if Miss T was 
to provide evidence  of financial  hardship  then itll consider  this and work with her. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Mobile  Money to have requested this information  in 
September and December 2018.  This was to help it understand  Miss Ts financial situation 
and what she could  afford.  In this situation  I would expect Miss T to co-operate  with Mobile 
Money and provide it with information  it requested so it can help her. I say this because 
without it, Mobile Money might have misunderstood  the position and proposed steps that 
may have  been  unsuitable for her. So I think Mobile  Money acted fairly and reasonably.  
Miss T made  a full payment to clear her account  in December 2018 and her account has 
been closed. Sections  94 and 95 of the Consumer Credit Act, and regulations  made under 
section 95, do allow Mobile Money to charge Miss T for exercising her right to settle the loan 
early. Both sections are referred to in the loan agreement, so Miss T was made aware of 
them. The regulations are the Consumer  Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004, and 
they set out how the amount Mobile Money  can charge is to be calculated. Theyre 
complicated, but in summary they allow Mobile  Money to charge Miss T interest for the 58 
days following the date of her request to settle early.
Of that interest, 28 days worth may always be charged (under paragraph 5 of the 
regulations), and another 30 days interest  may be charged in the case of agreements  which  
would otherwise have lasted more  than a year (under  paragraph  6). The loan agreement 
would last for 18 months if not settled early,  so Miss T is liable  to pay the full 58 days  
interest. But this is interest  she was always liable to pay under  the agreement   its not an 
extra charge  or a penalty for settling early. 
Miss Ts unhappy with the customer service shes received from Mobile Money,  in particular 
the tone of its correspondence  with her. Ive looked carefully at the correspondence between 
Miss T and Mobile Money and I dont  think its advisors were unprofessional. I can see that 
Mobile Money has responded to Miss Ts emails  and carried out her requests to change  
payment dates within a reasonable time. So I wont be asking  Mobile Money to do any more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN58644683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5864468