K821x#15complaint
Mrs R, who is represented by her husband,  Mr R, complains that Blue Motor  Finance Ltd 
(BMF) refused to let her reject a car she had bought under a hire purchase agreement.
background
On 4 August  2018 Mrs R bought a second hand car for £9,500.  She says that when taking it 
for a test drive she found it difficult to change gear, but was told that she wasnt  used to 
driving big car. On delivery she noticed  several scratches which  she said the garage had 
agreed to repair. Shortly afterwards she had a problem with the sunroof and then the 
handbrake. Within  30 days  Mr R contacted BMF and asked that it accept rejection of the car.
It asked for evidence and he arranged for it to be inspected by a local garage.  It reported  
that the car was presented with a gear selection  problem and first gear couldnt be selected  
most of the time. It said the vehicle gear linkages seem to be operating correctly and fault 
may lie with the gear selecting rods or gear stick mechanism,  but further investigation 
required. The local garage also repaired the hand brake and replaced a cable.
BMF didnt consider  that the car was faulty  such that it would accept a rejection. Mrs R 
brought her complaint  to this service where  it was considered by one of our adjudicators  who 
recommend it be upheld. He thought the faults  identified by the local garage showed the car 
to be unsatisfactory  and as the claim for rejection had been  made  with 30 days  it should be 
allowed.
BMF didnt agree and said that Mrs R had to demonstrate  that the faults were present at the 
point of sale. It appreciated  the car was 'new' to Mrs R, but it was a used vehicle and 
unfortunately, some wear and tear was to be expected. It said Mr R had confirmed that the 
local garage had told him there was no fault with the gearbox,  only worn cables which they 
suggested could  be replaced. It also said he had told it that the handbrake had worked  for 
two weeks and only failed  to operate once. 
It thought Mr R had misunderstood his rights  and believed the 30 day period when his wife 
could reject the car was 'like a cooling  off period'.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMF is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN57768142The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I agree  with BMF that Mrs R has encountered some minor issues  which have been resolved 
such as the scratches  and the sunroof failing to open. If these  were  the only issues then I 
would agree that rejection  wasnt appropriate. However, it seems there is a more  
fundamental problem with the gear change.
From the testimony of Mr R, who I have no reason to doubt, it is clear that his wife raised  
concerns when she test drove the car. She was reassured there wasnt  problem and she 
would get used to driving  it. However,  she didnt  get used to it and she had problems in 
getting into first gear. The car was inspected by a local garage which I believe acknowledged 
there was a gear selection problem. It didnt  identify the cause of this issue,  but suggested  it 
may be the selection  rods or the gear mechanism.
I am persuaded there  was a problem with the gear change at the point of sale and as such I 
dont consider that the car can be said to have been  fit for purpose.  Mrs R has the right to 
seek rejection as she raised the matter within 30 days of purchase and I consider this should 
be allowed by BMF.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
1. Unwind the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Mrs R to pay.
2. Removed the credit search recorded  by Blue Motor Finance Ltd on Mrs Rs file.
3. Collect the car at no cost to Mrs R.
4. Refund all payments  received from the date rejection was requested on 22 August 2018.
5. Pay £150.00  compensation  to Mrs R for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5776814