K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. didn't pay her enough  to settle her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
insurance claim.
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents.
background
Ms T had an accident and her car was deemed  a total loss. Her motor insurer paid the 
market value of her car. She claimed  on her GAP  policy for the difference between that sum 
and the cars  invoice  price.
Mapfre paid the claim  but Ms T wasn't happy  with the settlement. She brought  her complaint 
about that to us. I issued a provisional decision  on 27 March  2019. For ease Ive copied my 
provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it.  
Ms T was initially unhappy  because  the dealer who sold her the GAP policy didn't explain 
that the manufacturer and retailer contributions on her invoice were discounts that reduced 
the net invoice price  of her car. We dealt with that under a different reference number so Im 
not going to address those points  here.
Ms Ts policy  says it will pay the difference between the motor  insurer's  settlement for the 
market value of her car and the net invoice price.  The policy gives the following definition  for 
net invoice price:
Net Invoice  Price means the price paid by You for Your Vehicle including  all factory  
fitted accessories,  any discount given and retailer fitted accessories, but excluding  
road fund licence, new vehicle registration fee, fuel, paintwork and/or upholstery 
protection kits, insurance premiums (including  this Premium), warranty  premiums  and 
any such associated costs and any Negative  Equity. Retailer fitted accessories and 
extras are included up to a maximum total as specified on Your certificate of 
insurance.
So in order to calculate the net invoice price Mapfre didn't  include:  discounts (including 
manufacturer and retailer contributions),  road fund licence, and insurance product premiums. 
And all of those deductions appear to be in line with the policy.  But Mapfre also deducted a 
sum Ms T paid for the manufacturers service  plan and it was part of that sum our 
adjudicator didn't think it was fair for Mapfre to deduct. So Ive focused on that in this 
decision.
The service  plan isn't an insurance product or vehicle warranty. Its an agreement  between 
Ms T and the manufacturer  to cover the cars  annual  service for the next two years. So its 
not explicitly excluded  in Mapfres definition of net invoice price. But I don't think  that means 
it was unfair  for Mapfre to deduct  payment for it when  calculating the net invoice price.
Ref: DRN54627062I think the key wording from the policy is where  it says that: net invoice price means the 
price paid by You for Your Vehicle. And I think its fair to interpret that as the amount to buy 
the physical car and some of the parts or additions the manufacturer or dealer attached  to it. 
And the exclusions for things like warranties, insurance etc. shows  that the policy isn't 
intended to cover other non-physical optional  products, sold alongside the car intended  to 
protect it or maintain its condition. I think the service plan is intended to give customers like 
Ms T peace of mind concerning her cars next two annual services.  As such I think  its aimed  
at maintaining the cars condition. And I don't think its part of the cost of buying the car itself.  
So it doesn't form a part of the price Ms T paid for her vehicle.
I accept that the policy doesn't  specifically  say that it won't cover the cost of a service  plan.  
But motor  dealers may offer numerous different products when selling cars. And various 
manufacturers and dealers will introduce  new products designed to enhance their 
customers peace of mind. But I don't think its reasonable to expect insurers like Mapfre to 
amend their policies to cover such products every time a dealer  introduces one. Similarly I 
don't think  its reasonable to expect that Mapfre must not make a deduction  for such a 
product simply because its policy doesn't specifically exclude  it. It follows  that I think  it was 
fair for Mapfre to make a deduction  for the service plan when it was calculating  the net 
invoice price of Ms Ts car. So Im not going to instruct Mapfre to increase the settlement of 
Ms Ts GAP claim.
Neither Mapfre nor Ms T responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
As Mapfre and Ms T didnt raise any objections to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5462706