K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) decision to decline  her landlords 
insurance claim for storm damage to her tenanted property. She also complains about the 
poor customer service she received. 
background
Ms N has landlord insurance on her tenanted  property. In February  2018  her tenants 
reported that a tile had fallen off the roof following a storm.  Ms N first notified UKI that her 
property had suffered  damage on 27 February, sending it pictures of the damage the 
following day. She also notified  it the following day that scaffolding  had been put up to do 
the job. 
UKI appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and it attended the property to inspect the 
damage a week later.  When the loss adjuster arrived at the property he found  the scaffolding  
in place and no evidence of any damage. The loss adjuster  took some photos  of the roof 
himself and reported to UKI that it was not clear what  damage  or repairs  [were] completed.
Ms N told UKI that because of delays in its claims  handling she couldnt wait to carry out the 
repairs because doing so couldve led to further damage arising. She sent UKI her 
contractors invoice for £600. There was then a delay whilst the loss adjuster reviewed  the 
claim. Ms N chased matters on a number of occasions and was told by UKI that payment 
would be raised  once the final loss adjusters report  was received. In May 2018  the loss 
adjuster advised  that the claim wasnt covered.
 
UKI emailed Ms N to let her know. It said the loss adjuster had said the claim wasnt covered 
because the recent cold weather had highlighted a pre-existing fatigue crack in the roof tile 
causing it to crack yet further and become dislodged. It said that as the weather had 
highlighted a pre-existing issue there was no cover for the claim. It also said the damage had 
occurred gradually.  
Ms N was unhappy with UKIs decision to repudiate the claim so she complained. She said 
she wanted the claims decision reversed and she was unhappy about the service shed 
received and the delays shed experienced. 
UKI investigated Ms Ns complaint. It said that for the claim to be covered it needed to be 
shown that the damage was caused by one-off extreme weather event. But it said the 
position of the tiles replaced by Ms Ns contractor didnt suggest that extreme  weather  
conditions were responsible for the damage.  UKI did say that there  had been delays in the 
handling of the claim  caused by the loss adjuster and that Ms N had had her expectations 
unreasonably raised  that the claim would  be accepted and payment made. For the trouble 
and upset caused by the shortcomings in customer service shed experienced, UKI sent    
Ms N a cheque for £100. 
Unhappy with the outcome of UKIs investigation, Ms N complained  to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and recommended that it was upheld.  She thought  the 
damage the roof sustained was typical of storm damage and that there was evidence  that 
the storm had been  the main cause of that damage. She said that UKI hadnt  persuaded her 
that a policy  exclusion  applied. She recommended that UKI pay the claim together  with 
interest at this services  usual rate. Ms N agreed with our investigator but UKI didnt. It said 
Ref: DRN57859152there was no evidence in Ms Ns photos  of any storm related damage  to the roof. It asked for 
the complaint  to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2019 in which I said I didnt think 
this was a complaint that should be upheld. I made  the following provisional findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This service has a long established approach to the consideration of complaints about storm 
damage claims. We ask three questions: 
1.Was there a storm on or around the date the damage is said to have occurred?
2.Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage? 
If the answer  to all three questions is yes were likely to uphold the complaint. If the answer 
to any of the questions is no then were  unlikely to uphold the complaint. 
UKI has accepted  that there  were storm conditions present on or around the time the 
damage is said to have occurred. That being  the case, I dont intend to consider this 
question any further and I accept that the answer  to it is yes. 
A tile (or possibly two, its not entirely  clear  to me from the file) was blown off the roof. Storm 
conditions can cause  tiles to be dislodged so I think that the damage Ms N has claimed  for is 
consistent with that typically capable of being caused by a storm. So I think  the answer  to 
this question is also yes.  
But I think the answer to question  3 is no which means I dont think this complaint can 
reasonably be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The only visual  evidence of the damage  Ms N is claiming for is the photographs she took 
and sent to UKI. Ive reviewed these. The only possible damage  I can see is of one missing 
tile located six rows  down  from the ridge and directly above  the left-hand  roof window. I can 
see from the photographs taken by the loss adjuster a week after the claim was reported that 
the gap is no longer  evident. I cant see any other evidence of damage  or repair.  
Ms Ns contractors invoice supports the likelihood of there being one damaged tile. The 
contractors invoice states hes there To replace damaged tile.
Ive checked the weather records myself and whilst there were gusts of wind on or around 
the time the damage occurred which could  be classified  as storm level winds  they werent  
severe. 
So I have  to decide if UKI unreasonably declined the claim  based  on the evidence to hand.   
I have to be satisfied  that winds that were barely  storm level were  the main  cause  of one 
solitary tile becoming dislodged from the centre of the rear roof slope. If the storm had been 
the main cause of the damage  its reasonable to think that more than one tile wouldve been  
damaged. Its not unreasonable to think that the tiles surrounding  the dislodged tile would 
also have been  displaced or lifted to a degree but theres no evidence they were. 
Ref: DRN57859153So its not unreasonable to think that there is some other cause for the damage and that the 
storm merely highlighted  it. But to be covered by the policy  its necessary that the damage is 
caused by an event (storm) listed within the terms. And I dont think I can reasonably 
conclude that the damage   as presented  was so caused. 
UKI has mentioned  a stress fracture  to the tile (caused by a manufacturing defect or over 
time by freeze thaw) and I note the photograph of the cracked  tile on the patio which  Ms N 
took and sent to UKI. Its possible that UKI is correct  in this analysis and its unfortunate that 
the repair was completed  before it could attend and inspect the damage for itself. Its also 
unfortunate for Ms N that she wouldve had no knowledge of any such stress fracture until 
the tile completely failed. I can see that the roof itself looks  in a good state of repair.  But    
Ms N is still required  to show that the damage  shes claiming for is covered by the policy and 
I dont think, taking all the circumstances into account, shes been able to do so. 
Im unable to identify from the evidence Ive seen where the storm damage  to the roof is. I 
think it is more likely,  for the reasons Ive given, that the storm conditions highlighted an 
issue that already  existed  and which was deteriorating, unbeknown to Ms N, gradually over 
time. Its also reasonable to expect that if storm had caused the damage there  would be 
signs of disturbance to the surrounding  tiles as well, but there wasnt. So it follows  that I cant 
fairly say that UKI have  unreasonably declined the claim on the grounds that theres no 
cover in place for the damage  as claimed.  
Ive also thought about Ms Ns complaint about the poor customer service she received from 
UKI. UKI has admitted the service it provided to Ms N fell short  of the standards it would 
normally expect to provide. It accepts  the loss adjuster contributed to a delay in 
communicating the claims decision to Ms N and that she was given the false impression that 
the claim would  be paid thereby raising her expectations unfairly in the process.  UKI has 
paid Ms N £100 in recognition of any distress  and inconvenience the shortcomings in its 
customer service  caused her. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances and in line with 
awards this service has made in similar cases.  I dont propose  to award any further 
compensation. 
UKI responded to say it agreed with the provisional  decision  Id made. Ms N responded and 
made the following comments: 
that our investigator had found  in her favour  and Id reversed her findings.  She hoped  Id 
stick with our investigators decision and uphold her complaint  because UKI seemed to 
be doing everything to avoid  paying  it;
it was impossible for UKI to guess why the tile came off the roof;
the weather  had been severe  and it had been  snowing;
that it wasnt UKI that refunded  her £100  but the company she took the insurance out 
with. Shes not complaining about  the company she took the policy with, shes  
complaining about  UKI who she never  insured with. 
she gave a further account of the sequence  of events associated with her claim;
she didnt understand how UKIs surveyor could look at a photograph and decide thered 
been a stress fracture under the ridge tiles;
The complaint was passed  back to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN57859154my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms N, Ive not been  persuaded by 
the comments she made in response to my provisional decision  to change my mind and 
uphold her complaint.  Ill explain why. 
This service is impartial and provides a two-stage process to investigating  a complaint. That 
means if either party is unhappy  with an investigators view, then an ombudsmans  decision 
can be requested. UKI exercised its right to request an ombudsmans decision because it 
disagreed with our investigators findings. When an ombudsman is asked to review  a 
complaint and issue a decision then all the evidence is considered afresh.  When  doing so, 
an ombudsman isnt bound to follow the findings  of the investigator and may reach a 
different conclusion entirely. I appreciate  that having a complaint upheld  initially  only to see 
that view reversed is disappointing for Ms N. But I explained in my provisional decision why I 
didnt think this was a complaint that should  be upheld.  My decision has to be both fair and 
reasonable and this is a complaint which, for the reasons I gave in my provisional  findings, 
isnt one that can reasonably be upheld. 
Ms N purchased her policy through  a well-known national insurer. It says on page 4 of the 
policy terms that the policy is a contract  between UKI and the policyholder.  I appreciate that 
Ms N thinks  the national insurer handed off her policy to UKI without  her consent but this 
wasnt the case. Her policy  was with UKI all along but branded  under a different company 
name. UKI, as the policy underwriter, is responsible for assessing  any claim made. 
I cant agree  that UKI guessed why the tile came  off the roof. UKI explained  why it thought  
the tile had come off the roof. 
I accept, as did UKI, that storm  conditions were present  on or around the date of the loss. 
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision though, I dont think the storm conditions 
were the main cause  of the damage.
UKIs surveyor hasnt said there  was a stress fracture under  the ridge tiles. He said he didnt 
think the position of the tiles replaced by Ms Ns contractor suggested storm conditions 
caused the damage. 
Taking all the circumstances into account,  and for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think this complaint can fairly  and reasonably be upheld. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN57859155Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 1 December 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5785915