K820x#14complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with the settlement  paid to her by Society of Lloyds in respect  of her 
commercial insurance claim for fire damage to her stock.
Background
Mrs V owns  a business hiring  out specialist decorative designed  items  for weddings. In 
December 2015  there  was a fire in the unit where she stored  her items. She made  a claim to 
Lloyds for stock damage. The items were considerably damaged  by smoke/soot. Lloyds 
appointed a loss adjuster who instructed a specialist restoration company to carry out 
sample cleaning  and to provide a quote for cleaning  all the items. In assessing the claim, it 
was discovered that Mrs V was considerably underinsured  she was insured for stock to the 
value of £100,000 whereas the actual value of the stock damaged was estimated  to be in 
excess of £140,000.
The loss adjuster said that the sample  cleaning was successful and after obtaining an 
estimate from the restoration  company  for cleaning of the remaining  items, he advised that a 
pay-out for the claim should be £65,000.  After taking into account  that Mrs K was 
underinsured, he explained that Lloyds would only pay out 71% of the claim in accordance 
with the terms of the policy.  This meant a value of just over £46,000. Lloyds added on costs 
under the increased cost of working  cover in the policy  and offered £60,000.
Mrs V had appointed  a firm of chartered  loss adjusters to act for her but withdrew 
instructions from them  and instead appointed a claims  management/property company. A 
representative from that company, who was a chartered engineer acted for Mrs V and 
agreed the settlement of £60,000 on her behalf.  Mrs V signed a form accepting the payment 
of £60,000 in full and final settlement of her claim in April 2016. Shortly after that she 
changed her mind and asked for an increased settlement. Lloyds reviewed the matter but 
said that she had been offered a reasonable settlement  which shed accepted  on advice 
from her representative. It paid her the agreed  settlement.
Mrs V insisted that the settlement  wasnt  fair and obtained estimates  from a specialist to 
show that the cost of cleaning/ restoration  was considerably  more  than the settlement shed 
been paid. It was also suggested by her new representative that Lloyds  shouldnt  have been 
dealing with her previous  representatives as they werent FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) 
registered. 
Lloyds pointed out that Mrs V had chosen  to appoint  a different company to carry out 
cleaning of her items, who had charged about a third of its estimate and caused further 
damage. It also said that items had been  disposed of when they could have been restored 
and that the other items had suffered further damage by being kept for more than three 
years when the settlement should  have  been  used to restore  them. It was satisfied the full 
and final settlement reached  was reasonable.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Lloyds had acted reasonably and 
couldnt be expected to pay any more.
Mrs V was unhappy with this and the matter  has been referred to me for further 
consideration.
Ref: DRN57619772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Mrs Vs complaint I have to take into account firstly  that Mrs V accepted in 
writing a full and final settlement of her claim.  We dont usually interfere with full and final  
settlements where  both sides were independently advised. We would only do so in 
exceptional circumstances  if for example we thought the consumer had been  unreasonably 
pressured into accepting  a settlement or there was some other reason for finding the 
circumstances of the settlement unfair.
I think it fair to consider  whether Lloyds offered a reasonable  settlement to Mrs V. As Ive 
said Mrs V was considerably underinsured and, in those circumstances, Lloyds is entitled to 
reduce any settlement in proportion to the amount by which she was underinsured.  She has 
explained that she didnt think she was given  proper advice about this when applying for the 
policy. But I understand that she bought her policy  through a broker  and she has made a 
separate complaint about this. From Lloyds point of view, I think  it was entitled  to accept the 
insured value and to reduce the claim for underinsurance.
The other points  Mrs V makes are that she didnt  think the sample cleaning was successful, 
so the estimate  to clean all the items was flawed. I can only go by what the expert  evidence  
says. At the time the cleaning was deemed to be successful, with the additional point that 
some varnishing/French polishing would have to be undertaken The restoration company put 
forward an estimate of some £30,000 to carry out the restoration. Bearing  in mind that that 
was the expert evidence  at the time, I cant say it was unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on it. 
I appreciate that Mrs V has since obtained further  expert evidence  of her own. But I must 
bear in mind  that she had instructed a cleaning company  who,  it would appear, carried  out 
unsuccessful cleaning  and probably caused more damage  this is highlighted in the 
quotation from the company she asked to look at the restoration needed. And Ive taken into 
account that several items were  disposed of without advising Lloyds. And that the damage 
to the items if left in their soot damaged state  for three years  or more would have been so 
much worse.  I think, at the time of offering the settlement, that Lloyds acted  reasonably.
As regards  the full and final settlement form Mrs V signed, I understand that she was under 
financial pressure, but I dont think she was treated unfairly by Lloyds. The claim was a 
complex and unusual one to investigate. The settlement was offered to her within  four 
months and I think that was reasonable. Mrs V was independently advised by her chosen 
adviser and agreed  to a full and final settlement. I note her point  that her representative  
wasnt FCA registered but I understand that Lloyds sought advice from the FCA and was 
told it would  be acceptable  for it to negotiate the claim  with the said adviser the payment 
went to Mrs V directly. It was up to her to decide who she wanted to represent her. I dont 
think there are any grounds  for us to interfere in that settlement.
I understand that Mrs V was upset  about the delay in the settlement being paid to her. This 
was because shortly after agreeing to the settlement she wanted to dispute it. So, Lloyds 
had to go back to the loss adjuster  to reconsider,  then it had to be referred to the 
underwriters confirm the position. Its unfortunate that this then held up Mrs V in receiving 
her settlement but I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to reconsider its position 
rather than merely saying Mrs V had accepted  a settlement.
Ref: DRN57619773Finally, as our investigator advised,  I cant consider Lloyds handling of Mrs Vs complaint. 
This is because I can only look at regulated activities carried out by the insurer. This includes 
effecting (selling/issuing a policy) and/or carrying out a contract of insurance.  This doesnt 
include complaints  handling which I have no powers  to look at.
So overall, and I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mrs V, I cant  uphold her 
complaint. This is because I think Lloyds acted reasonably in making its settlement. And that 
there arent any grounds for overturning  the full and final settlement reached.  Lloyds did 
mention that there was a possibility of Mrs V claiming uninsured losses  from the owner of the 
unit where the fire took place, or their insurer. Lloyds wouldnt be able to help her with this 
but I dont know  if its possible or if Mrs V has considered it. But an uninsured loss would 
include for example  the part of the claim not paid to her because she was underinsured.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5761977