K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way in which DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company Limited 
handled a claim  he made  on his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
background
In December 2017 Mr H contacted DAS asking for it to cover a breach of contract  claim 
against a recruitment  agency (the agency) under his LEI policy.  He named a solicitor  at a 
particular law firm (the solicitor) that he wanted  DAS to appoint  to represent him; he said 
the solicitor had the necessary security  clearance  to act for him in that action.  
In order to assess the claim, DAS asked Mr H for further information  including  full details  of 
the claim including what the agency  allegedly did to cause the financial loss, the stage the 
claim was at if proceedings  had been issued  against the agency and whether a court date 
had been set. Mr H declined to provide that information. 
On 27 December 2017 DAS contacted the solicitor  asking her to provide this information. 
Having received no reply, it chased again  at the end of January 2018. DAS explained, 
without this information, it was unable to consider  covering Mr Hs claim as it needed to fully 
understand the claim and consider whether the subject of the claim was an insured event 
under the policy.  
On 8 February 2018, DAS contacted the solicitor and asked what  the agency did to allegedly 
breach the contract - and when the breach occurred, the present position of the dispute, 
whether Mr H had paid the agency  for its services and whether it was correct  to presume 
that Mr H had entered into a contract  with the agency to source employment, and that 
contract had restrictions attached to it due to potential security clearance issues. DAS 
reiterated that once it had received a response  to those questions,  it would be able to 
confirm its position  under the policy.
Mr H says DAS had all the information  it needed to appoint the solicitor to represent  him and 
by failing to do so, hes suffered significant  detriment. He says the information it requested 
from him / the solicitor  wasnt relevant and DAS was trying  to obstruct his claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think DAS had acted unfairly  by 
requesting further  information from Mr H / the solicitor before being  able to confirm whether 
his claim would be covered, or deciding whether to appoint the solicitor. Mr H disagrees so 
his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh  and make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why. 
Before appointing a legal  representative to act on Mr Hs behalf, DAS is entitled to first check 
the claim against the policy  terms to see whether its covered. Thats because if the claim 
Mr H wanted covered under the policy isnt an insured event then theres no need  for DAS to 
consider whether to fund legal representation  to pursue such a claim. 
Ref: DRN59852192Under the terms of Mr Hs LEI policy, DAS may provide cover to pursue specified breach of 
contract claims - subject  to the remaining terms of the policy.  This includes a dispute arising 
from an agreement which Mr H entered into for buying goods  or services. 
When making the claim under the policy  Mr H informed DAS that the agency had breached  
its contractual duties  and obligations by contravening legislation  (disability discrimination. 
harassment and victimisation)  acting on the basis of unjust  enrichment and deceit  and as 
a result hed suffered financial  losses in the region of £70,000.
In light of this, I dont think DAS unreasonably  requested further information to determine  
whether the subject of the claim was an insured  event  under the policy. Im satisfied the 
information given  by Mr H was vague. For example, he didnt fully particularise how the 
agency had breached the contract and whether hed paid the agency for its services to 
enable DAS to consider  whether this was a contractual dispute that might be covered under 
the policy. And although Mr H did inform DAS of the date he entered into a contract with the 
agency, he didnt  confirm the date on which the event leading  to the claim occurred. 
Further, as Mr H had requested DAS appoint a solicitor  that wasnt from one of its approved 
panel of law firms to represent him, I dont think its unreasonable for DAS to ask questions  
about the status of any claim and whether proceedings had been  issued. Thats  because, 
under the terms  of Mr Hs policy its not until legal proceedings need  to be issued (or have  
begun) that hes free to instruct a legal  representative of his choice to act for him. Up until 
that point, the policy  says DAS is entitled to appoint a legal firm from its panel of approved 
firms to represent the policyholder. This type of term is common in LEI policies and generally 
we dont think thats unreasonable unless a complaint  is, for example, particularly complex  or 
exceptional to warrant a policyholder having the freedom  to choose their own representative 
before the need to start legal proceedings. But in this case, DAS didnt receive  an answer to 
questions about  the stage  the claim was at, so it wasnt in a position  to consider whether to 
agree to appoint  the solicitor to represent  Mr H. 
I note that the policy also says Mr H must report to DAS full and factual details of any claim 
as soon as possible  and give DAS any information it needs. Mr H hasnt done that; he says 
the circumstances surrounding his claim are covered by the Official  Secrets  Act 1989. 
However, hes been unable to provide any evidence of this  despite  requests for him to do 
so. As such Im not persuaded that this is a sufficient reason for Mr H and / or the solicitor 
not to provide DAS with the information it required to assess whether Mr Hs claim is one 
that might  be covered  under  the terms of the policy and for the reasons already explained 
above, I dont  think the questions posed by DAS are unreasonable. Even  if the full 
particulars of the contractual dispute  were confidential, Ive seen nothing  to conclude that the 
information such as the stage in proceedings, whether Mr H paid the agency  for its services 
and the date of the event that led to the claim couldnt (or shouldnt) have been disclosed.   
Ive taken into account that Mr H has said that when making claims on past LEI policies, he 
hasnt been required  to provide as much information  to DAS before it agreed  whether to 
cover a claim. Hes given examples of past claims to support  what  he says about this. 
However, Ive considered  the circumstances of this particular complaint and for the reasons 
already set out, I dont think DAS has acted unreasonably  by asking for the additional  
information. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr H says DAS sent terms of engagement to the solicitor  so 
it had been prepared to appoint her to represent  him. He also says this show  DAS accepted 
Ref: DRN59852193that due to the sensitivity of his claim, he required a representative that had security  
clearance. DAS says it didnt send  out terms of engagement and nor does it accept that 
Mr H required  a representative who had security clearance. Im satisfied  that nothing  in the 
documents its sent us suggests otherwise. Our investigator has asked Mr H to provide 
documentary evidence  to support what he says but hes been unable  to do so. So, on 
balance, Im satisfied DAS asked the solicitor for more information but didnt confirm her 
appointment or accept that Mr H had to be represented by a lawyer who had security  
clearance. 
DAS accepts there were  some delays acting on correspondence from Mr H towards the start 
of the claim and responding to him. Its apologised to Mr H for those  delays. Given that these  
delays were relatively minor, I dont  think they impacted the progress of Mr Hs claim and I 
think DAS apology is sufficient. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 9 October 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5985219