K822xcomplaint
Ms R has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) wrongly reported two credit  
searches for one credit card application,  which adversely affected her credit score. 
She called for Aqua to remove  the record of the second search from her credit  file with credit  
reference agencies.  
background 
When Ms R took her complaint to Aqua, Aqua  while not accepting it was necessarily to 
blame for the second  search  record  agreed  to remove  it, paying Ms R £10 for 
inconvenience. Aqua  then acknowledged  thered been a delay in the removal of the record  
and paid an additional £50.
When Ms R had discovered the record had still not been removed,  she brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service. Our adjudicator showed Aqua evidence the relevant 
record hadnt been removed and asked  Aqua  to now ensure it was removed and pay Ms R a 
further £100 compensation, which Aqua agreed to do.
However, there was then a further delay.  The adjudicator asked Aqua to pay Ms R an 
additional £100 compensation. Aqua readily agreed. 
At one point,  Ms R pointed out that Aquas written request to credit  reference agencies for 
the removal of the search record included wrong  address details for her, though Aqua said 
the substantive part of the request didnt include any errors. 
Ms R reported the search record as still not having  been removed. The adjudicator told 
Aqua, but Aqua  said it was struggling to see what more it could do. Aqua asked the 
adjudicator to request from Ms R a copy of what her credit record was showing, but by that 
time the search  record  had disappeared from Ms Rs credit file as more than 12 months had 
passed.
Ms R asked for more  compensation to reflect the effect on her of the long delay in removing 
the record. The adjudicator was of the view that Aqua had already paid enough  
compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but I shant 
be asking Aqua to do any more.
There have been  three  things  for me to consider: (a) Aquas degree of responsibility for what  
happened (b) the effect the events should  reasonably have had on a customer in Ms Rs 
position and (c) what compensation  Aqua should  be required to pay, taking account of (a) 
and (b). 
Whether or not Aqua  was originally responsible for the second  search  record being created, 
Aqua agreed to have it removed. There was then unquestionably a longer than reasonable 
period before Aqua took the necessary  steps  for the removal to take place. However, Im 
satisfied that, after the delay, Aqua did take those steps. It wasnt  as if Aqua refused to act. 
Ref: DRN51258712In the latter  stages it became unclear whether,  as Aqua said,  it had done all it could to 
secure the removal, so that any further  delay  was the responsibility  of the agencies. Ive also 
not found evidence in the papers available to me that the record remained in place right up 
until the time it lapsed anyway, after 12 months.  
I accept that the existence of the record and the delay in its removal caused Ms R 
considerable aggravation, as it would  to any person in a similar position. 
On the whole I think £200  or indeed  £260  is sufficient compensation for the aggravation 
Ms R suffered.  In this sort of situation  the ombudsman  looks  at the figure of compensation 
from an impartial perspective; in other words she or he decides if they think  the figure is 
adequate regardless  of what the parties  themselves may think. Ive concluded that Aqua has 
paid Ms R enough compensation even if Aqua was responsible  for the delay in removing the 
search record right up until it lapsed in the ordinary course. 
my final decision
I uphold Ms Rs complaint. I dont  require NewDay Ltd (Aqua) to pay any more  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125871