K822xcomplaint
Ms P has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her two packaged bank  
accounts - a Select  account in 2001 and a Premier account in 2010.
background 
Our adjudicators have  looked into this complaint already. They thought  that we could not 
look at the sale of the Select account as the complaint  about  it was brought  too late, but said 
we could consider  the complaint about  the Premier  account. Ms P did not disagree with this.
In relation to the Premier  account, our adjudicators thought that this account had been mis-
sold. Lloyds agreed  with this and refunded the accounts fees with interest in line with this 
services approach. 
Lloyds did though deduct the savings that Ms P made from having  the Premier  account. 
Specifically, as the Premier account  came with an interest fee overdraft facility  and a 
preferential interest rate on balances above this figure, Lloyds deducted the savings that 
Ms P made  on the basis that she wouldve been  charged a higher overdraft interest rate 
had she held a standard  fee-free account  instead.
Ms P did not agree with this offer as she felt that it was unfair to make this deduction  as she 
wouldve altered  the way that she borrowed money if she was being charged  the normal 
interest rate on her overdraft. Ms Ps case has therefore been  passed  to me to issue a 
decision on this point.
For the sake of clarity I would like to confirm that I am only looking at Ms Ps complaint about  
the redress offered  by Lloyds in relation to the sale of the Premier account in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Ms Ps complaint.
In this instance all parties  agree that the Premier account was mis-sold and therefore all I am 
looking into is whether  what Lloyds has already done is sufficient. At this point, it might  help 
for me to explain that, where we think that a packaged bank account has been mis-sold, any 
redress we recommend is intended to put the consumer  back in the position they would have 
been in if the mis-sale had not occurred. Usually, this means getting the bank to refund all 
the account fees paid by a consumer, plus an amount  of interest  on each fee to reflect  the 
fact that a consumer  has not had the benefit  of that money for some  time. And this is the first 
part of what Lloyds did to work out the compensation due to Ms P.
In some cases, where a consumer has benefited  from having the account  as Lloyds says   
Ms P did - it might  be appropriate for a bank to make some deductions from the refund of 
fees the consumer paid plus the interest due on them. 
But a bank needs to provide good reasons for doing  so (based on the position that the 
consumer would most likely have been  in if theyd not had the packaged bank account) and 
Ref: DRN57533562clear costings. If it cant do both of these things  to support any deduction, wed usually say it 
would be unfair  for a bank to make  such  a deduction.
Lloyds has said that it can do both of these things  here. It says Ms P was charged interest at 
a preferential rate, compared to what she wouldve paid on a free account,  when she used 
her overdraft. I note that Lloyds has now altered  the way that it has done the calculation  of 
the benefit that Ms P received from having the overdraft and the amount due to be refunded 
to Ms P has increased. I understand that Ms P is sceptical  that Lloydss calculation  is now 
correct but ultimately  she has brought a complaint  to this service  for us to give our opinion 
on what is fair and reasonable in relation to this complaint.  So I would like to assure Ms P 
that I am now satisfied  that what Lloyds has now agreed to do is in line with our approach 
and is a fair outcome to her complaint.
Ms P has argued that she would not have used her overdraft  in the same way had she been 
charged the full interest amount. But I am not persuaded  that this was the case.  I say this 
because I can see that she did have an overdraft prior to upgrading her account  and she 
was using the overdraft facility in the same  way prior to the upgrade as she did after the 
upgrade. So I think that it is likely that Ms P wouldve continue  to use her overdraft in the 
same way had she not upgraded her account.
my final decision
My decision  is that what Lloyds has already agreed to do is fair and reasonable and it does 
not need to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5753356