K821xMCE15complaint
Mr F complained that MCE Insurance  Company  Limited didnt cancel his motorcycle 
insurance policy when  he wanted them to. 
background
Mr F was in an accident when he was hit by a car. He was injured and his motorcycle  was 
damaged. He reported the accident to MCE. He wanted them to compensate him. He also 
complained that MCE didnt cancel his insurance when  he wanted them to and continued to 
collect his premiums even  though  he couldnt  use his motorcycle.
MCE said that Mr Fs policy  with them was a third party, fire and theft motorcycle  insurance 
policy with them. So they didnt insure  him for the matters he wanted  to claim for. But they 
referred him to solicitors so that he could claim for them against the other driver.  
MCE accepted  that theyd  made  some service  failings,  and paid him £200  in compensation 
for that. But they said that they had told Mr F he could cancel his policy, but he hadnt  done 
so.
The investigator explained that the type of insurance  Mr F had with MCE didnt cover his 
losses from the accident. But he recommended that Mr Fs complaint about  MCE not 
cancelling his policy should be upheld. He thought that MCE should  have  cancelled  his 
policy from the date Mr F first enquired about it, and that they should refund his contributions 
from that date plus interest.
MCE didnt agree and so the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F wanted MCE to pay for the repairs to his motorcycle, and compensate him for his 
uninsured losses  arising  from his accident.  But Mr F had a Third Party, Fire and Theft policy  
with MCE. This means that MCE insured him for other drivers making claims against him for 
injury to them or damage to their vehicles in an accident. But they didnt insure  him for his 
injury or damage to his bike unless it was damaged by fire or was stolen. So when Mr F 
reported the accident, MCE  referred him to solicitors to deal with any claim he might  want  to 
make against the other driver. MCE accepted that they hadnt  made  clear  to Mr F that they 
wouldnt handle such claims and that the solicitors  were separate from them. They offered 
him compensation of £200 for this and not clearly explaining about his cancellation options. 
Mr F accepted this compensation. The investigator has also explained to Mr F what type pf 
policy he has with MCE, and so I wont comment on that any further.
However, Mr F also complained that MCE wouldnt let him cancel the policy.  He said that his 
motorcycle wasnt driveable  as it was being  repaired. So he didnt want  to have to continue 
paying the policy premiums under the payment  plan he had with MCE. He says he tried 
twice to cancel  but MCE  wouldnt  let him. But MCE say that Mr F only asked  if it was 
possible to cancel his policy, but didnt say he wanted to cancel  it. However they said he 
could still cancel it now, and backdate  that to when his motorcycle was written off or sold, if 
he could prove that. 
Ref: DRN56331802But I think that misses the point. As the investigator  explained  to MCE, an insurer  is under a 
duty to ensure their customer is given enough  information to make  an informed decision. So 
I can look at whether MCE treated Mr F him fairly  there.
Ive listened to the recordings of the two calls Mr F had with MCE when he asked about  
cancelling his policy. I think its clear  from both calls that Mr F did want  to cancel his policy,  
as he didnt want to continue paying  for a policy when he couldnt use his motorcycle.  But 
MCE didnt give him clear information on his options  for that. 
In one of the calls they did tell him he could  cancel his policy but told him that there  could be 
an outstanding  balance as the status of the claim against him wasnt  known then. They  then 
referred him elsewhere  quickly  before explaining that adequately. MCE accepted in their 
final response letter that the call hadnt met their service expectations. I think they didnt 
fairly explain his options  or appreciate that Mr F wanted to cancel his policy  from the first of 
those two calls that he discussed it in. And so I dont  think its fair that Mr Fs policy wasnt  
cancelled then. 
MCE said that the other driver didnt  ultimately  make a claim against Mr F, and they closed 
their file. So Ive looked  at the policy terms to see what they say about cancellation when no 
claim has been made and the customer is paying through  a payment Plan,  as here. I agree  
with the investigator  who said that the policy terms seem to contradict each other. They  state 
that the customer wouldnt be entitled to a refund, and an outstanding balance  may be 
payable. But they also say that the customer would only need to pay for the days  theyre  
covered for. I dont  think  that this is clear about  what a customer  can do when wanting to 
cancel a policy. 
And so I agree  that MCE havent acted fairly and reasonably to Mr F regarding  clearly 
explaining his options for cancelling his policy. And so I think that Mr F should pay only for 
the days that MCE provided cover up the date of the first call when he first mentioned 
cancelling his policy, and should refund to him the balance of premiums he paid after that, 
adding interest from the date of each payment he made. This should  be in addition to the 
£200 MCE have  already  offered and paid Mr F. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  its my final decision, that I partly uphold this complaint, in 
relation to the cancellation issue. 
I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited to do as follows:
Refund to Mr F any payments that he has made for insurance  over and above what 
he owed MCE for cover to the date of Mr Fs first call to them in which  he discussed 
cancelling his policy.
Add interest at 8% per annum simple on each  of such payment from the date he paid 
it to MCE until the date they refund  it to him. 
Ref: DRN56331803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
 
If MCE consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, they should tell Mr F how much they have  taken off, and give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5633180