K820x#14complaint
Ms K is a director of a company, E. On behalf  of the company, she complains that
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) converted euros  into pounds  during a transfer to another 
euro account, resulting in a loss of over €29,000.
background
In October  2018, Ms K went into a branch  and asked  for a transfer of €1,000,000  to be made  
from the company  euro account to another partys account. The staff member completed  the 
paperwork and asked  Ms K to check the forms, which she says she did. Several days  later, 
Ms K was notified  by the other party that they had only received just over €970,000. When  
Ms K checked the paperwork,  it stated the payment was to be sent in pounds  sterling,  rather 
than euros,  which  led to a loss due to the exchange  rate. 
Barclays said Ms K had signed a confirmation of payment instruction while she was in 
branch to confirm  everything was correct. This form detailed that the payment was to be 
made in pounds. Barclays said it was her responsibility to check  the details before signing 
the form and, as it simply acted on her instruction, it hadnt done anything  wrong.
An investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think  Barclays  had done enough to 
highlight to Ms K that the payment was going to be sent in pounds rather  than euros.  And 
she noted that Ms K had provided details of the recipients account  details, showing it was 
going to another euro account. So, she thought it was reasonable for Ms K to assume  that 
the payment would have been made in euros, unless  this had been specifically brought  to 
her attention.
Barclays disagreed  with the investigators  view. It said that Ms K would have been aware of 
the importance of checking the details on the form, as a result  of her profession. It 
maintained that it was her responsibility  to check the details on the form were correct.  And 
by signing the form, she had accepted the details were correct.  
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 April 2020.  I explained that I was thinking  of coming to 
a different outcome to that of our investigator.  In my provisional decision I said:
Ms K has said that she wasnt told by the bank that the payment was going to be made in 
pounds. Barclays  has said this information was on the payment  instruction form Ms K 
signed. In order  to reach a decision, I need to consider if Barclays did enough  to show  that 
this payment was going to be processed in pounds.
Ive looked at the confirmation of payment instruction form that Barclays  asked Ms K to sign 
in branch when  requesting the payment.  And I can see that this is broken down into four 
separate parts: Payment Details,  Your Details, Beneficiary Details  and Charges. Next to 
each part, there  is a space to enter  initials to confirm  the details are correct. 
The first part, titled Payment Details, includes three lines of information  as below:
Payment Execution  Date: 04 October 2018
Amount To Be Sent: 1,000,000.00 Euro
Currency To Be Sent In: Pound Sterling
Ref: DRN50969142On the right-hand side of the document, adjacent to these three pieces of information, I can 
see that Ms K has initialled the form to confirm she has checked  these  details. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  When initialling the form at this point, Ms K was confirming 
that these three lines of information were correct.  I think the amount of information to read 
was minimal, and Im satisfied that Barclays gave Ms K an opportunity  to check the 
information and she confirmed it was correct.  
Ive also seen the authorisation form that Ms K signed. And I can see that she signed  a 
declaration confirming shed checked  the payment details and they were correct.  The 
declaration also explained the consequences if the information was incorrect.
From looking  at these documents, Im persuaded that Barclays  made  it clear  enough  to Ms K 
that the payment would be sent in pounds, rather than euros. And that it was her 
responsibility to make  sure the information  was correct.
Ms K has said that there was no logical  reason  why the payment  should have required a 
conversion into pounds  when it was a euro payment being transferred between euro 
accounts. So, she doesnt think Barclays should have presented  her with forms that provided 
the payment in that currency. 
Barclays has said that normally payments such as these would be transferred in euros.  So, I 
can appreciate the point  Ms K is making  here. But Barclays has also provided notes written  
at the time which suggest that the currency, and more specifically pounds, had been 
discussed when  the transaction was arranged. Im conscious of the fact that, as this was a 
face to face meeting, I cant know for sure what was said. But the purpose of the 
confirmation form is to ensure that any inaccuracies are resolved before a payment is made.
 
This transfer  was for a substantial  amount  of money.  So, I think  it would have been even 
more important for Ms K to make  sure the information was right.  And as Ms K initialled the 
form in the section where it confirmed the payment would be made in pounds, this would 
indicate to me that she checked  this information and confirmed this was correct.
When taking everything into account,  I think the currency information was made  clear  
enough to Ms K at the time of the transaction being arranged.  And Ms K has signed the form 
to confirm she checked the information,  and that it was correct.  So, I dont think Barclays  did 
anything wrong  by transferring the funds  in pounds following her signed  agreement.
Barclays responded to confirm they had no further comments  to make. Ms K replied  to say 
she didnt agree with my findings. She said that my provisional decision gave no weight to 
that fact that it was Barclays  that put her into that position in the first place. She said 
Barclays puts its customers in a position where  they are exposed to potentially  significant 
losses  unless they spot what Barclays has done and correct the instruction.
Ms K says that she accepts she should  have  spotted the error but that she should  not have 
been placed in this position in the first place. Ms K has asked how the actions of their 
employee meets with Barclays  marketing material regarding  how they treat their customers  
and says that Barclays should be asked  about  the fees they earned on this transaction.
Ref: DRN50969143my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  the additional  
comments made - to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Im afraid that Ms Ks comments  dont persuade me to change  
the outcome I reached in my provisional  decision.  
Ms K has commented on the way Barclays promote their services, referring to business 
experts and how it will guide customers. She says this employee  didnt  meet these 
expectations. But the information  she is referring  to is general marketing information, it 
doesnt relate to this specific scenario  or process for payment. This therefore doesnt alter 
my decision.
I accept that the company has incurred a loss as a result of the way this transaction  has 
been processed. But the details surrounding  any fees that the bank has earned are not 
relevant to the complaint  Im being  asked  to consider - which is whether Barclays  was wrong 
to process the transaction in the way that it did. 
Barclays provided the payment transaction form to Ms K for her to check and sign to confirm  
that the details  were  correct. And as I said in my provisional decision, Barclays has provided  
notes which  suggest  that there was some conversation  around  the currency  of the 
transaction at the time of the request. Whilst Barclays has confirmed it would normally 
expect these types of transaction  to be made  in euros, and I empathise with Ms K in this 
matter, I cant  overlook the fact that she signed  the form which indicated she had checked 
and agreed with the payment details  provided.  
So, Im satisfied that Barclays has acted appropriately by processing the transaction  based  
on the signed form.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K, on behalf of 
company E, to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5096914