K820x#14complaint
Miss J says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss J bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy.  The policy provided  cover for Miss J if she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Miss J disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
I think HSBC made Miss J aware the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it out. I 
say this because  from what we know about HSBCs sales processes  at the time, Miss J 
wouldve had to sign a creditor/loan protection declaration form to confirm that she 
wanted the cover. I think its unlikely that HSBC wouldve added  the PPI to Miss Js 
account if she hadnt signed  the form to show that she agreed to the cover. So I think  
Miss J wouldve  realised  she had a choice.
HSBC accepts that it probably recommended  the PPI to Miss J, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Miss J 
says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work  because of 
sickness or accident, and that she had some shares she couldve sold.  But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to her employer sick pay, and wouldve meant  she could 
use those benefits to pay for other  expenses. The value of her shares couldve 
fluctuated, and the value of them may not have been readily available  to Miss J when 
she needed them. So Im not persuaded that the shares  meant the PPI policy  wasnt 
useful to Miss J. 
From  what we know about HSBCs loan documentation at the time, the cost of the policy 
was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the premium  
and the total cost.  So I think  Miss J would have understood how much the PPI would 
cost if she kept the policy for its full term. 
Miss J would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if HSBC thought about  this when it recommended the policy or 
explained the situation clearly  to Miss J. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest she thought  
Ref: DRN52115152she would  repay  the loan early. So I dont think this made the policy  unsuitable or better 
information about this wouldve stopped her buying it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5211515