K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) blocked and closed their joint 
bank account  and withheld the funds  in the account. All without giving any advance notice or 
explaining its reasons for doing  so.
background 
On 5 October 2018, Mr and Mrs H received a payment  of £94,000  into their account.  On 15 
October, Barclays blocked  the account  and carried out a review.  Barclays neglected to block 
Mrs Hs online access though, and Mrs H transferred  a total of £104,400 out of the account 
on 16 and 25 October  2018.  Which left the account balance  at £127.62.
When Barclays realised Mrs H had transferred the funds out of the account, it contacted the 
receiving banks to ask them to freeze the funds,  as it said she shouldnt  have  been  able to 
make the transfers.
When Barclays completed its review it decided to close Mr and Mrs Hs account, without 
giving notice and without explaining its reasons. It also closed other accounts Mr and Mrs H 
had with Barclays, including their business account. But Ill deal with those accounts in 
separate decisions, and Ill only address the joint personal accounts in this decision.
Mr and Mrs H complained. They  said the money  was partial  repayment  of an investment  
loan theyd made, and that theyd provided Barclays with proof to show they were  entitled to 
the money. They said Barclays hadnt  been  clear with them and had changed  its position  
several times.
They said Barclays actions had put huge  financial and mental stress on them.  And that they 
needed the money to fund their business. They wanted Barclays to release the funds,  
reimburse costs theyd incurred in dealing with the matter and pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd experienced. Barclays maintained its position, so 
Mr and Mrs H brought  their complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted in line with its terms and conditions  when it 
closed the account. And that Barclays hadnt made  an error  by not releasing the funds  to 
Mr and Mrs H. She said the error  Barclays had made was in allowing the payment to be 
made to Mr and Mrs Hs account. And that shed seen evidence to show that the funds 
shouldnt have been credited to Mr and Mrs Hs account in the first place.
But she did say that Barclays customer service had fallen below reasonable standards.  
Barclays had said theyd  release the funds to Mr and Mrs H, then changed its mind. And it 
was Barclays error  that led to the payment being made  to Mr and Mrs H in the first place. 
That error was then compounded by Barclays failing to restrict Mrs Hs account, which 
allowed Mrs H to transfer funds to another account.  Finally, she found that Barclays  didnt 
provide Mr and Mrs H with written notice to close the account,  although  it did tell Mrs H on 
the phone.
She felt Barclays could have identified the error sooner, and relayed more information to 
Mr and Mrs H. But that Barclays wasnt responsible for the financial hardship Mr and Mrs H 
found themselves  in.
Ref: DRN53470792Ultimately then, our investigator agreed with Barclays proposal to put all of the accounts  
back in the position they wouldve  been in, but for the initial error. That is to say that Barclays  
would seek to recover £94,000 and return it to the senders account. But it would not seek  to 
recover the remaining  £10,000 Mrs H had transferred. Which means the £10,000 would 
remain in the account/s Mrs H intended  to transfer  it to.
Our investigator did, though, think Barclays account servicing and customer  service was 
below standard,  which  compounded the huge pressure Mr and Mrs H were under. So, she 
asked it to pay £2,000 in compensation.
Barclays agreed with our investigators  outcome,  but Mr and Mrs H didnt. They  wanted to 
see evidence to demonstrate Barclays mistake, and they felt Barclays  should cover the 
costs they incurred as a result of losing the £94,000. So, they asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint, Im going to uphold in part it for the following reasons.
Account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts in question  which both Barclays and 
Mr and Mrs H had to comply  with  say Barclays can close  an account for any reason by 
giving two months notice.  Or immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays has provided  me to explain why it closed 
Mr and Mrs Hs accounts. And Ive thought about  how that sits against the terms of the 
accounts. Having  looked at the circumstances and terms and conditions  which  set out when 
the bank can close immediately, or with 60 days notice, Im satisfied it didnt breach its 
terms of business  when it closed Mr and Mrs Hs accounts. And that it wasnt obliged to 
share the reasons for its decision  with Mr and Mrs H.
Further, while Barclays intended  to close  the accounts immediately, they were actually still 
open in January 2019, more than two months  after it told Mr and Mrs H the accounts would 
be closed. So, the net effect was that Barclays  had actually  told Mr and Mrs H the accounts 
would be closed two months before they were actually closed. 
Had it given two months notice in advance,  the accounts still would have remained blocked 
throughout that period.  So, Mr and Mrs H would have been  in the same position, regardless 
of whether or not Barclays  had given  notice.
The accounts were,  or course, blocked  during that time, meaning  Mr and Mrs H couldnt 
make or receive payments. But for the reasons  Ive set out below, Barclays was entitled to 
block the accounts while it carried out its review.  
Ref: DRN53470793However, Barclays actions in not closing the account when it said it would,  and not 
confirming the notice in writing did cause  confusion and frustration. And I think  its 
appropriate that Barclays should  compensate Mr and Mrs H for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced as a result. And Ive factored that into the level of 
compensation Ive awarded Mr and Mrs H, details of which  Ive set out below.
Account block
On 15 October 2018, 10 days after Mr and Mrs H received a credit of £94,000,  Barclays  
blocked Mr and Mrs Hs accounts  without saying why. But it neglected to block Mrs Hs 
online account access and Mrs H transferred almost  the entire balance  of the account to 
other accounts controlled by her, her husband and her father-in-law.  When  Barclays  
discovered this had happened, it blocked  Mrs Hs online access and sought  to recall the 
funds from the receiving banks.
As part of its review into Mr and Mrs Hs accounts,  Barclays asked Mr and Mrs H to provide 
proof of entitlement to the funds. Mr and Mrs H said the money was part repayment  of an 
investment loan and sent in a copy of the loan agreement.  But Barclays  still declined to 
release the funds.
Mr and Mrs H said they needed the £94,000  to fund their business:  to pay staff,  order 
supplies and so on. Mr and Mrs H instructed  solicitors  to help them  send proof of entitlement  
to the funds to Barclays, and took out loans to cover the expenses they had intended  to pay 
for with the £94,000. 
I dont doubt for one moment  the mental and financial stress Mr and Mrs H went  through. 
Mr H experienced a mental  breakdown  that resulted in him seeing a psychiatrist and being 
unable to run the business. Which in turn meant Mrs H had to run the business on her own,  
at a time when it was under severe financial pressure. Mrs H has told us this caused  issues  
with staffing and that she missed  out on business that she otherwise  wouldve had.
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs H for talking our investigator through  their experience.  I appreciate 
doing so would have brought back unpleasant memories. So, I thank them for being so 
candid and open.
Because of the experience theyve told us about, Im making an award for compensation in 
their favour. But its important to explain the basis of my award. Its only fair that Barclays  
should compensate  Mr and Mrs H for any losses, distress  and inconvenience  they 
experienced as a result of its errors. At the same time, I cant reasonably tell Barclays to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for losses that did not flow from its errors.
Barclays has never told Mr and Mrs H why it blocked their accounts,  nor has it explained 
why it recalled the £94,000,  save  that it eventually said the payment was made in error. And 
because of data protection legislation, I cant reveal  the full reasons to Mr and Mrs H. But I 
think its important for Mr and Mrs H to understand a little more about what happened, in 
order for them to understand the reasons for my award. And perhaps more importantly, the 
reasons Im not making a larger  award.
When Barclays processes payments, its usual process is to carry out a balance  check  
before it approves  the payment. But it failed to do so when it processed the £94,000  
payment out of the senders account. Had it done so, it wouldnt have approved the 
payment.
Ref: DRN53470794So, the reality of the situation is that Mr and Mrs H not having access to the £94,000 wasnt 
caused by Barclays  error.  Barclays didnt make  an error in freezing the funds, or recalling 
them: the error preceded all of that. Had Barclays not made the error, the money would 
never have  hit Mr and Mrs Hs account  in the first place. So, financially Mr and Mrs Hs 
position wouldnt have  been any different had Barclays not made the error. That is to say 
that they still wouldnt have had the money.
Mr and Mrs H shouldnt feel like theyre missing out on a technicality here. While Barclays  
made an error in allowing  the payment to go through, if I were to tell it to release the funds to 
Mr and Mrs H, Id effectively be transferring liability for the loan repayment  from the third 
party, to Barclays. And Id be putting  Mr and Mrs H in a better position than they would have 
been in, but for the error.
For the same reason,  I wont ask Barclays to reimburse the legal costs  Mr and Mrs H 
incurred in providing proof of entitlement to the funds. Barclays was entitled to review the 
accounts, and Im satisfied it was reasonable to ask for proof of entitlement as part of its 
review. It was also Mr and Mrs Hs decision to employ  legal help; Barclays didnt advise 
them that they had to do so. So, because Barclays didnt  make an error  here,  any expenses 
incurred in complying  with that request  are for Mr and Mrs H to meet.
However, while I dont  agree Barclays was responsible for the above losses,  I do think its 
actions and communication compounded  the issue for Mr and Mrs H. Barclays  wasnt  clear 
with Mr and Mrs H about the cause of the issue. And, while  I understand there were issues  
that prevented  Barclays from telling  Mr and Mrs H the full cause of the problem, I do think  it 
couldve been much  quicker and clearer  in its explanation, and Im not persuaded there  were  
good reasons  not to reveal more detail about  the error, particularly once  it had completed  its 
review.
At one stage, Barclays told our service  it would release the funds to Mr and Mrs H and asked 
for them to provide account details for the transfer. But it then changed its mind  and decided  
not to release the funds.
All of which compounded the extremely difficult situation Mr and Mrs H were  in and added 
unnecessarily to the distress and inconvenience  they suffered. It also meant  Mr and Mrs H 
focussed their attention  on recovering  the money from Barclays,  rather  than from the sender. 
Now I havent seen  any evidence to suggest they would have recovered  the money from the 
sender, but for Barclays actions. So, I cant reasonably say Barclays caused Mr and Mrs H 
to lose out on recovering that money.  But I do think Barclays diverted Mr and Mrs Hs 
attentions and added another layer  of stress, at a time when they were already under huge  
pressure.
And because of that, Im making  a substantial award in Mr and Mrs Hs favour.  Our 
investigator thought  Barclays  should  pay Mr and Mrs H £2,000 in this regard. Barclays 
accepted that suggestion,  but Mr and Mrs H did not. They didnt feel it sufficiently 
compensated them for the expenses they incurred, and the distress they experienced.
But, while I agree  with Mr and Mrs H that £2,000 doesnt fully compensate  them for the 
expenses they incurred and all of the trouble  and upset they went through  during this time, 
not all of that distress  was caused by Barclays, so I do feel it fairly reflects  the extent of the 
trouble and upset  attributable to Barclays errors. 
Ref: DRN53470795And I cant reasonably  ask Barclays to compensate Mr and Mrs H for trouble and upset they 
experience that it didnt  cause. Mr and Mrs H were in a very difficult  situation, which affected 
their mental health and the viability of their business.  But that was caused by them  not 
receiving £94,000,  which, for the reasons Ive set out above, was not Barclays  fault:  the 
money was owed to them  by the sender.
But Barclays actions worsened the position Mr and Mrs H were  already in and led to 
uncertainty for a number of months. So, I think a payment  of £2,000  fairly  represents the 
anxiety caused  by Barclays errors. And Im satisfied that such an award puts both parties  
back in the position they wouldve  been in, had Barclays  not sent the payment in error.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should  be upheld  
in part. To put things  right, Barclays Bank (UK) PLC should pay Mr and Mrs H £2,000  for the 
trouble and upset  its delays caused them. It should make the payment within  28 days  of the 
date of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347079