K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) sent an email to his personal 
email address confirming  they were sending out to him a new card, and further that the email 
also confirmed his postcode. He feels in sending the email Nationwide have put him at risk.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr G and Nationwide so I wont repeat it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Following Mr Gs online request for a new card, Nationwide emailed him to confirm they 
would be sending one out. In that email they stated his post code  in full. Mr G feels  that this 
is an insecure method  of communication and he was unhappy about it because  it exposed 
him to the risk that his card might be intercepted or other fraudulent  activity  might be 
attempted.
Nationwide confirmed that the email  had been  sent securely and that the reason his 
postcode had been included was so that he would be sure it was Nationwide sending the 
email and not a phishing  scam. They also assured Mr G that if someone  was to start using  
his card fraudulently  he would be covered  by their Fraud  processes. In the light of that they 
did not up hold his complaint.
Mr G was unhappy with Nationwides  response and so the investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think Nationwide  had acted unfairly. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. I do not perform  the role of the industry 
regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, 
or direct that they change their processes.  That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. I also do not have powers to deal with any potential  data breaches since  that 
would fall under the remit of the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO).
I need to consider whether Nationwide  acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr G. I 
take into account both Nationwides view and that of Mr G. My aim is to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the evidence before me. Where  that evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances of the case.  
There is a polar difference of opinions here. Mr G feels the email  was not sent securely  but 
Nationwide say it was. As I understand matters  Mr G has not suffered any actual loss but 
that is not entirely the point, as Mr G has pointed  out.
Ref: DRN56173462The evidence I have  seen  shows  the email Nationwide sent to Mr G, was sent securely  
through one of its systems via encryption. That is their evidence and I must take it into 
account. Their  position  is, therefore, that email  correspondence  doesnt have to be sent 
within their secure messaging system, for the email  to remain secure. 
Mr G disagrees  very strongly  and has set out in his response to the investigators  view why 
he does so. But he has no evidence to support that. I appreciate he has an opinion on what 
does or does not constitute a secure method of communication but that is not evidence  it is 
simply his view.
So, on the balance  of probabilities, weighing the evidence that I have, I find it is more likely 
than not that the email was sent securely  and Mr G was not put at risk. I recognise that 
Nationwide asked him to refer the email to their phishing  address,  but that is simply prudent  
business practice in order  to double check the email  was genuine.  And it was. So, I attach 
no weight or adverse inference to such a request.
Having made the finding that the email was secure,  I cannot  agree that Nationwide have 
acted in any way unfairly,  and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide  Building  Society
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5617346