K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the renewal process  for the savings certificates that he has with 
National Savings  and Investments, trading as NS&I. 
background
Mr W had five savings certificates with NS&I that were due for renewal in March  2019. Two 
of them  had a three  year term and three  of them had a five year. He received renewal 
notices for the certificates and wanted  all five to be renewed for five years.  He says that he 
completed the forms and returned them to NS&I but it says that they werent received so 
were renewed for their original terms (which was what he wanted for three of the certificates 
but not what he wanted for the other  two). He complained to NS&I that: the renewal letters  
didnt offer online renewal; the reminder letters didnt refer to the bond number, were poorly 
worded and didnt give information  as to whether instructions had been  received; and it was 
arbitrary and unreasonable  to allow cashing-in of the certificate but not changing the term. 
He wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that NS&I 
didnt receive the renewal  forms from Mr W so she couldnt fairly say that it was at fault or 
did something wrong. She thought  that NS&I had made it clear  enough which  account the 
renewal letters were  referring to and that the reminder letters  werent incorrect. She said that 
the renewal letters contained information about  the different ways  to make changes  to the 
certificates. And she said that if the certificate  was automatically renewed, but that wasnt  
what was wanted,  the holder could cash-in  the certificate within 30 days with no penalty.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that:
the reminder letters didnt specify the date or the number of the bond that was being  
renewed and as hed sent the completed forms back the reminder letter didnt  enable  
him to re-send the instructions before the deadline; and
the first thing he knew was when  the unwanted  renewal took place and if the lost 
instruction was to change the term there is no mechanism that allows  for the lost 
instruction to be properly fulfilled (which  is different if the option is to cash-in  the 
certificate) and thats arbitrary and unreasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W received  renewal  letters from NS&I in February 2019 about  five certificates that were  
maturing in March  2019. Three of those  certificates  were renewed on the terms that Mr W 
wanted so Im not going to consider those certificates  any further.
Two of the certificates had three year terms  but Mr W wanted to renew them  for a further  
five years (which was the term of his other three  certificates). He says that he returned the 
completed renewal forms to NS&I. But it says that they werent received so the certificates 
were renewed for three year terms. The renewal  letters said that the certificates  would 
automatically renew for another three  year term unless it was told about  any changes  that 
were to be made. As NS&I says that it didnt receive the renewal letters  Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN59934732that it acted unfairly  or unreasonably  by renewing each of those certificates for another  three  
year term.
Mr W says the renewal  letters didnt  offer online  renewal. But the letters  said that to renew  
the certificates for a different term or to cash them in the holder should log-in to their 
account, call NS&I  or complete and post the renewal form. So I consider that the renewal 
form did give those options to Mr W.
Mr W received  reminder letters about the renewals. But he says that those letters  didnt refer 
to the bond number, were poorly  worded and didnt  give information as to whether 
instructions had been received. Its clear  that they didnt refer to the bond  number and didnt  
give renewal information specific to Mr Ws bonds. But Im not persuaded that theres any 
requirement for NS&I  to send a reminder letter and that it does so to remind its customers 
about a renewal. Its unfortunate  that Mr W didnt find them useful  and I leave it for NS&I  to 
decide whether  it should change the format  of its reminder letters. But Im not persuaded that 
it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to do so.
NS&Is terms  and conditions say:
If your Certificate  automatically renews and this is not what  you want, you can cash 
it up to 30 days after the renewal date with no penalty.
Its a commercial decision for NS&I to decide what terms apply if a certificate  automatically  
renews but thats not what the customer wanted. This service wouldnt  normally interfere 
with a businesss legitimate commercial  decisions.  I see no reason to interfere with NS&Is  
decision on the terms that apply in these  circumstances. And Im not persuaded that its 
arbitrary or unreasonable that a certificate can be cashed but not re-invested for a different 
term if a renewal instruction is lost  as happened  for Mr Ws renewal forms.
Im not persuaded that NS&I has acted incorrectly in connection with the renewal of Mr Ws 
savings certificates. Its unfortunate that the renewal notices that he sent to it werent 
received. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
change the term of any of his certificates,  to pay him any compensation or to take any other  
action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5993473