K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) sold to him with a credit  card in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and took the view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
First of all, I looked at whether Lloyds made it clear enough to Mr B that he had a choice 
about the PPI. Mr B applied for his card at a meeting  in a branch. Mr B told us that he 
doesnt remember being informed of any insurance. But Lloyds has a copy  of the application 
form Mr B completed to get his credit card. Theres a section relating to the PPI with a tick 
box for Mr B to show  whether he wanted the policy. Next to this it read;
Tick yes to take out Payment Protection Cover and protect your repayments.
The box was ticked and Mr B signed the form. 
Looking at all the available information,  I think having read the form its likely that Mr B would 
have understood  that the policy was optional. So Im not upholding his complaint on 
this basis.
Next, Lloyds says it would have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card.  So it was 
required to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr B. Given his circumstances I think  that 
Mr B was eligible for the PPI and in addition,  I dont think he would have been affected by 
any of the main exclusions or restrictions under  the policy. 
The PPI was designed to provide Mr B with a safety net if he lost his job or was too ill to 
work. From the information Mr B provided, his employment didnt provide him with sick pay 
or redundancy pay. In light of this I think the PPI policy would have  been  of use to him. And 
Ive seen nothing  that suggests  Mr B would have  found  the monthly charges unaffordable. 
So taking all these things  into account, I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Finally, Lloyds also had to give Mr B clear  enough  information  in particular about  the costs,  
benefits and main exclusions/restrictions  in the policy  so that he could decide for himself  
whether the PPI was right for him. 
Ive considered the possibility that the information  Lloyds gave Mr B wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think he would have  been caught by the main  exclusions or 
restrictions, for the reasons Ive set out above. So I dont think  its likely that better 
information about these matters would  have put him off taking out the PPI. And the cost was 
comparable to the cost of other, similar  policies available at the time. So I dont think  clearer 
Ref: DRN58506142information about that would have changed his mind about the policy. Overall, having  taken 
everything into consideration,  I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr B this PPI policy  and so I dont 
require Lloyds to put anything right.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5850614