K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his claim to replace lost car keys 
when he made a claim on his Motorplus  KeyBack  policy. 
background
Mr O has a policy with Motorplus to protect  his car keys, which is underwritten by Great  
Lakes. This policy  means keys attached  to a special fob will be replaced if lost, stolen  or 
damaged. The fob also enables found keys to be returned and the policy pays  a £10 finders 
fee.
Mr O lost his car key while out running.  Hed placed it with his phone in an arm wallet and 
when he finished  his run the phone was there but the key was missing. It couldnt be found 
when he retraced his steps. He reported the lost key to the police and made a claim on his 
policy. The claim was declined as the key he lost wasnt  attached  to the fob.
Mr O had purchased a comprehensive  insurance  policy and expected his keys to be covered 
without any loopholes. The fob was on his wifes car key, but as he has a joint policy he 
thinks he should have  been given two fobs.  Great Lakes said the KeyBack feature isnt part 
of his joint motor  policy.  Its an optional stand-alone  extra.  If hed wanted two fobs hed 
need to purchase  two of the stand-alone policies.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the policy makes it clear the keys need  
to be attached to the fob as this identifies  which key the policy protects. Mr O thinks the keys 
are identifiable  because they relate to the vehicle named in his policy. He points out even if 
the fob was attached it wouldnt have prevented the key being lost. And hes discovered that 
another company offering similar policies has overturned its stance on such claims. So he 
thinks Great  Lakes should do the same. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I not going to uphold it. 
Let me explain why.
The starting point  is the wording of the Premier KeyBack 1500 policy. In the extract  below 
Ive used italics where the policy wording is in bold type. 
In the use of language section on page  4 of the policy,  the fob is defined as the tag issued 
to you registered  in your name and attached to your insured keys.
The words  fob and tag are singular, which suggests to me theres one fob per KeyBack 
policy. As the policy is in Mr Os name the fob is expected to be attached  to Mr Os key(s), 
not those of another person.
In the cover  section  on page 5, point  1 reads  as follows:
Ref: DRN54614972When your insured keys which are attached  to your fob are lost, stolen or damaged by 
accidental means  within  the territorial  limits, the insurer will pay up to £1,500 in any one 
period of insurance in respect of:
i)Locksmiths charges
ii)New locks (if a security risk has arisen) and
iii)Replacement insured  keys.
Point 2 refers to the £10 reward payable to the finder of lost insured keys.
And finally under General  Exclusions on page 7, point 2 refers  to Any insured keys not 
attached to the fob. 
Its not in dispute  that the key Mr O lost wasnt attached to a fob. The policy wording makes it 
clear keys which are not attached to a fob are excluded from cover. I dont think this is a 
loophole. It seems  to me the fob is important as it identifies the insured keys and enables  
them to be returned  if found. 
In its response Great  Lakes said Mr O had previously made a claim in June for a key which 
was experiencing intermittent  faults. This claim was declined as the problem was considered 
to be wear and tear which is excluded under the policy terms. The KeyBack  fob had been 
attached to this key. The claim which  is the subject of this decision was made  in September. 
So if Mr O only had one fob, he must  have removed  it from the faulty key and added  it to his 
wifes car key. Or perhaps his wife uses the faulty  key. But as the key which  Mr O lost wasnt  
attached to the fob it isnt covered under the policy. 
Its probably fair to say the fob wouldnt have stopped Mr O losing his key. But it would have 
made it possible for the key to be returned if someone had found  it. And even if Mr O is right 
and another company providing  similar policies has changed its stance on such  claims, 
thats not relevant to my consideration  of Mr Os complaint against Great Lakes.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5461497