K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC have started legal proceedings against her. 
She is also unhappy with the charges that have been applied  to her mortgage account.  
Mrs L is being represented on this complaint by Mrs J.
background
Mrs L took out a mortgage with her late mother Mrs K, in 2002. The mortgage was taken out 
with another lender which was later transferred to Barclays in 2007.  The mortgage  was 
taken out on an interest  only basis and had current account facilities  attached to it.
Mrs L and Mrs K were struggling  to maintain their contractual monthly payments and 
experienced financial difficulty because they were both suffering from poor health. 
In 2007, Barclays  applied for a possession order which was granted by the court, but 
because of the health conditions that both Mrs L and Mrs K had, Barclays  decided against  
going ahead with repossession and made  the decision to rest on their security.  This means 
that as there was enough equity in the property, they could  allow the debt to remain  as it 
was, and when  the property needed  to be sold  they would get their money back.  Since 
then, Barclays have  started legal proceedings as they feel that the situation that Mrs L is in, 
is getting worse.
They said that after carrying out an affordability  assessment  on Mrs L, she doesnt  have 
enough disposable income  and it would take around 25 years to clear  the arrears  on the 
mortgage. It would also take her past the maturity of the mortgage which  they cannot agree  
to.
Mrs L believes that Barclays  have  acted unfairly by applying  interest  and charges to her 
mortgage account, which she says has contributed significantly to her outstanding mortgage 
balance. 
Mrs L also has another complaint with us where she is disputing the amount held in her 
current account. She says Barclays shouldnt have  started legal proceedings against her 
until the dispute was at least resolved. This part of the complaint about the current  account  
will be investigated separately. 
Mrs L brought the complaint to our service where it was looked  at by one of our investigators 
who didnt think that Barclays had acted unreasonably. 
Mrs L didnt agree with what the investigator had said and asked for the complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman, so it has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I 
wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Id firstly  like to say how sorry I am to hear of all the difficulties that Mrs L has been 
experiencing. I understand that she still isnt very well, and I appreciate  things havent  been 
easy for her.
Ref: DRN53515232Ive taken into consideration everything that Mrs L has said,  and I know she feels  very 
strongly about her complaint. She has provided additional comments in support  of her views 
which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I trust that Mrs L will 
not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that 
they are expressed  in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address  every  point raised.  The purpose  of my decision is to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them.
I have looked  over the information that Barclays have  sent us in addition  to what  Mrs L has 
told us, to try and understand what has happened over the years. I can see that because of 
what Mrs L has been going through, she wasnt able to maintain her monthly  contractual 
payments on her mortgage account.
There are several years  where  Mrs L hasnt been  able to pay her monthly contractual  
payment which  in turn has meant the arrears on the mortgage have significantly increased. 
Arrears have mounted up from 2006  to 2016. Her current monthly contractual  payment is 
£236.02, and she has been managing to pay £375  from January of this year. 
Barclays have told us that the arrears  on the account stands  at around £51,332 and after 
they completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs L, her disposable income  
would mean  that it would take a further 297 months  for the arrears to be cleared  not 
including the monthly payments that are still due.
In this situation, we would always expect  a lender to work with the borrower to try and come 
to an agreement to pay back  any arrears on the account and agree a way forward.  
Repossession should always be a last resort.
Looking over the contact  notes that Barclays have sent us, I can see that they have tried to 
help Mrs L over the years and when things were difficult for Mrs L in 2007  - they agreed to 
postpone the possession order and rest on their security because of the poor health that 
Mrs L and Mrs K were going  through.  But I understand  that since then, the arrears have 
increased significantly, and I can understand why Barclays have concerns that leaving  this 
debt to mount up  could  leave Mrs L in a far worse position.
Having considered everything  carefully,  I think that Barclays have done what we would 
expect of a lender, if not more, to try and help Mrs L. But unfortunately, because  Mrs L is 
suffering from poor health it appears  that there is no prospect to get the mortgage back on 
track.
I appreciate this is a difficult time for Mrs L but in the circumstances, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Barclays to now be asking her to repay the mortgage.
Charges on account
arrears charges
Mrs L has said she has had unfair charges applied to her account which have led to an 
increase in her outstanding mortgage balance. 
Ref: DRN53515233We previously  looked  at a complaint for Mrs L under a separate reference number. This 
complaint led Barclays  to remove all arrears charges which  were applied  to the account from 
2006  2014. Barclays also havent applied any further arrears charges to the account  from 
2015. Based  on this, I cant  say that Barclays have  applied  any arrears charges  on the 
account which have  contributed to her outstanding balance.
solicitor fees
Barclays told us that they had to refer the account  to solicitors because  Mrs L wasnt  able to 
make any payments to her account. The solicitor fees were  added to the account  on 7 June 
2017 and 10 May 2018. These  were  both for £2,484.
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of the account and can see that the terms and 
conditions allow Barclays to apply  these fees to the account if they have to refer an account. 
Ive considered whether Barclays have applied these fees fairly given the situation  that Mrs L 
finds herself in.
Looking at the account overall, and the amount of arrears which  have accrued, I can 
understand why Barclays felt they had no other choice but to refer the mortgage account  to 
solicitors. From reviewing the contact  notes, Barclays made several  attempts to carry out 
affordability assessments with Mrs L to see what she could  afford towards her mortgage. It 
seems they tried to contact Mrs L on a number of occasions to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment, but they were not successful. Any forms they sent to Mrs L were 
also not returned.
As Mrs L still wasnt making payments towards her mortgage, Barclays  went ahead and 
referred the account to solicitors. I dont think they were unfair in doing this.
Solicitors have to carry out a certain  amount of legal work and Barclays  had to cover this 
cost. I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays added these fees to Mrs L mortgage.
While its an unfortunate situation for Mrs L, I cant say that Barclay have been unreasonable  
or unfair in starting legal  proceedings against her. Mrs L and Barclays  should keep an open 
dialogue to try and agree  a way forward.
Mrs L may now not have  a choice but to sell her property. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic 
related Government  restrictions, the regulator issues guidelines. Current  guidelines say 
lenders cant take or resume possession action until November 2020. 
This will give Mrs L a few months to arrange  to put her property on the market. Although 
there is a chance  that she may not sell her property by then, she should keep Barclays  
informed about  the sale. Mrs L should  provide  Barclays  with evidence that the property  is on 
the market and work with them until the sale goes through. Id expect  Barclays  to continue  to 
treat Mrs L fairly while the sale completes and take into account any further  guidance from 
the regulator. But ultimately,  if Mrs L cant  sell her property or otherwise repay the mortgage 
outstanding, Barclays  is entitled to take possession as a last resort.  
Ref: DRN53515234my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5351523