K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Vauxhall Finance  plc (VF).
background
In January 2018 Mr A was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with VF.
In June 2018 Mr A experienced  a loss of power whilst accelerating. This happened again  in 
the same  month and the car broke  down.  A car rescue organisation attended and diagnosed 
a fault with the ignition coil. The car was returned to the supplying  dealer in July 2018  where  
the ignition coil and spark  plugs were replaced.  At the time of repair the car had covered 
mileage of approximately 5000 miles.
Mr A continued to experience intermittent issues with power loss. He reported his concerns  
to VF in August  2018.
VF said it didnt consider itself responsible for the repairs because Mr A had been in 
possession of the car for 8 months and there was no evidence  of a point  of supply fault.
Mr A returned the car to the garage  in September 2018, October 2018, November 2018  and 
December 2018.  Further repairs were carried out but these  havent  been successful and Mr 
A has continued to experience issues.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he didnt think  a reasonable person would 
expect a brand new car to require replacement  parts  within the first 6 months  or 6000 miles. 
He also said the fault had continued despite attempts at repair and recommended that VF 
allow Mr A to reject the car.
VF didnt agree. It said the repairs which had been  carried out to the car were minor and that 
the dealership  may have changed parts  as a gesture of goodwill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VF has supplied the car under a conditional  sale agreement theres an implied  term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking  into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
brand new car, such as that supplied to Mr a, to be of a very high standard.
Mr A and VF disagree about whether the car had a point of supply fault.  Ive looked at all of 
the available  evidence to determine on the balance of probability whether  I think the car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr A first experienced issues with power loss in June 2018, which was within the first 6 
months. He reported  the issue to the dealer  and a repair was attempted in July 2018. The 
repair wasnt successful and Mr A complained to VF in August 2018.
Ref: DRN55355362Whilst I can see that Mr A didnt report the issue to VF until after the first 6 months,  its clear  
from the information provided that the fault arose within the first 6 months.
An independent engineers report can sometimes help with deciding whether a fault was 
present or developing at the point  of supply. In this case theres  no report. I dont think 
obtaining a report  now would be of use because the car has been  subject  to several 
attempts at repair. So Ive looked at the available evidence to determine  whether there  was a 
point of supply  fault with the car. Ive also taken into account the relevant  implied  terms, 
particularly those relating to freedom from minor  defects and durability.
I can see that the ignition coil and spark plugs were  replaced in July 2018. This was 
following a diagnosis by a car rescue  organisation of a fault with the ignition coil. The 
repairing garage also found a bend  in spark plug 3.
VF has called the repairs minor.  But I dont think a reasonable person would expect a 
brand new car to break  down  and require a replacement ignition coil and spark  plugs within  
the first 6 months and having covered only 6000  miles. Ignition coils are not a component  
part which I would expect  to see requiring  replacement so soon.  
VF has suggested that the dealer  replaced these parts  out of goodwill but I havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest that this was the case. My own research suggest that a faulty  ignition 
coil can cause loss of power/misfiring, so I think its likely, given the issues  experienced and 
reported by Mr A, that the dealer replaced the ignition coil and spark plug in an attempt to 
repair the fault.
Based on what Ive seen,  and taking into account the age and mileage of the car, I think  its 
more likely than not that there was a fault with the car which was present or developing  at 
the point of supply. Im also satisfied that the dealers attempt at repair  was unsuccessful.  I 
say this because  there  have been several  further  attempts to repair  the car since  July 2018.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im of the view that the car had a point of 
supply fault. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a brand new car to require 
replacement parts at only 6 months old and having  covered less than 6000 miles. The 
attempt at repair has been unsuccessful and Mr A should be allowed  to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Vauxhall Finance plc must:
Allow Mr A to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr A.
Refund Mr As deposit together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 10% of Mr As monthly payments to reflect his loss of enjoyment
Pay compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A by 
having to return  the car to the dealer  on several  occasions
Ref: DRN55355363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5535536