K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) hasnt  dealt with 
her motor insurance claim fairly. 
background
In 2018, Mrs S was involved in an accident which left her car damaged. The car was 
assessed and was deemed a total loss. Initially,  Mrs S went to the other partys insurer to 
make a claim  but she encountered some difficulties here. Because of this, Mrs S went to 
LV to make the claim. 
LV has made a number of offers to Mrs S to settle the claim. And since  this complaint has 
been referred to our service, LV has made  its final offer. Mrs S thinks  the amount offered is 
too low. 
Mrs S says that since her car has been  at LVs appointed garage,  it has incurred  further 
damage. And that the car is no longer driveable.  LV has asked Mrs S to get a quote for the 
damage, but due to her personal circumstances, she has struggled to do this.
Mrs S complains that LV has caused  delays to her claim  being  resolved. LV has offered 
Mrs S £50 for any inconvenience  it caused her as a result of how it handled her claim.   
Our investigator felt as though LV had offered  Mrs S a fair amount to settle the claim. They  
couldnt be sure that LVs garage had caused  the damage to Mrs S car, and so felt as 
though LVs offer to consider the repairs was a fair one. In relation to the service Mrs S 
received, he didnt think that the majority of the delay  was down to LV.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators  opinion. And so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision on the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not going to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
LV has made Mrs S a number of offers to settle the claim, the most  recent  and final offer is 
£2,250. To be clear,  it isnt this services  role to value the car, but I can look to check  LV has 
acted reasonably. So Ive looked  at the market  valuation  guides from the actual  time of the 
accident on 15 May 2018. Having done so, Ive found that LV has offered the top end of 
these valuations. And so I think the amount LV has offered Mrs S is fair.
LV said if Mrs S wanted  to keep the car then it would deduct £411  from the settlement figure 
as this would  be the amount it would get at salvage. Mrs S says she doesnt think it is fair 
that LV can financially  gain from her car. But I dont  think LV is financially gaining here. The 
car is worth a certain  cost at salvage  which LV can look to recoup. And if LV isnt able to sell 
the car to a salvage agent, because Mrs S wants to keep it, then I think its only fair that it 
recoups the same cost from Mrs S. In any event, Mrs S has since told us she has returned 
the car to LV, and LV has confirmed it has refunded  the £411 it deducted for salvage.
Ref: DRN52485802Mrs S responded to our investigators  opinion with a number of points about the damage that 
she says was caused by LVs garage   and shes asked me to look at the pictures shes sent 
in, which  I have. It has been accepted that some  damage to the car was caused by the other 
insurers garage  so its difficult for me to conclude from the pictures exactly what  damage 
was caused and where. Even if I accept LVs garage  caused  the damage  Mrs S says it did, 
LV has asked Mrs S to get quotes for the damage if she wanted to keep the car  as it said it 
would consider paying for repairs. I think this is fair in the circumstances and I wouldnt have 
asked LV to do anything  more here,  even  if I found it responsible for the damage. 
But as Ive already said,  Mrs S has now returned the car to LV, so this hasnt  had an effect 
on her as LV has paid her the market value for her car - £2,250. I dont  think  Mrs S has lost 
out as a result of any damage caused to the car after the accident.
Based on what Mrs S has told us, its clear  that shes been through a difficult time and 
because of this, she was unable to travel, or get her car to a garage for a repairs quote. 
Shes said garages refused to go to her home  and so she was left with no option but to 
accept the settlement and let LV take the car for salvage. I appreciate  Mrs S frustration in 
this matter  things havent  been  easy for her  and I have no doubt that trying to settle this 
claim only added to this. But I can only ask LV to do more where I think  theyve  done  
something wrong. I cant say that the actions  of other garages not associated  with LV are its 
responsibility. 
I understand that Mrs S has spent a long time trying  to deal with this claim. Its clear there 
has been some going  back and forth trying  to get a satisfactory resolution. As Ive 
mentioned, LV did make Mrs S a number of offers to settle the claim, which she says 
delayed things. I appreciate that the situation  has taken some time to sort out, but I dont 
think that LV is wholly responsible for this  some  of this has been  down to the other  sides 
insurer. Its normal for an insurer  to negotiate  a settlement figure which  can take time. I cant  
see that LV has caused any significant  or unnecessary delays and so I think that the £50 LV 
has offered Mrs S for the inconvenience of the how it has handled the case is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5248580