K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that they were left without  water  by The National  Farmers Union  
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (NFU) following their home insurance claim for loss of 
water. They  also complaint about the way their claim was handled, the length  of time it took 
to resolve and that they werent offered alternative  accommodation. 
background
Mr and Mrs E contacted NFU in July 2017 to report a loss of water.  They thought  that one or 
more neighbouring properties were diverting their water supply. They had recently  
experienced increased water bills and had taken to turning the water off at the mains  and 
relying on bottled water.
NFU accepted the claim and began investigating what might have happened. It found  that 
water was supplied  by meter (two miles from Mr and Mrs Es farmhouse) and pipework 
which crossed their neighbours land. Mr and Mrs E told NFU that they believed one of their 
neighbours had made an illegal  connection  to their pipework and was stealing  their water.
 
NFU instructed loss adjusters at the end of July and they said, to trace  the problem, they 
would have to make contact with Mr and Mrs Es neighbours and obtain their agreement to 
access their land. Loss adjusters said it may be necessary to use diggers.  
As relations between  Mr and Mrs E and their neighbours werent cordial, gaining consent to 
access their land was subject to considerable delay.  NFU offered Mr and Mrs E alternative  
accommodation in December 2017,  but this was declined because  of the livestock  at the 
farm, that required their attention. NFU tried to provide a water tank at the farmhouse but, 
due to its location, delivery proved  difficult so it was subsequently declined by Mr and Mrs E.
The water theft was referred  to the local police  but, based on its own investigation and an 
engineers report,  NFU found there was no evidence that theft was actually taking place. 
Water was eventually restored to the farmhouse almost  a year later (in July 2018). Whilst 
they were without water, a weekly disturbance allowance was paid by NFU to Mr and Mrs E 
which covered them  for the cost of buying bottled  water. 
Mr and Mrs E complained to NFU in February 2018  about the delays in progressing their 
claim and the service provided by the loss adjuster and other  contractors thatd been 
appointed. They also complained about the weekly allowance NFU was paying them. 
NFU looked  into their complaint. It acknowledged  that thered been delays but said these  
were largely  caused by the difficulty in gaining  Mr and Mrs Es neighbours consent to 
access their land. It accepted that a couple  of delays caused by its contractors  not getting 
the correct permissions were its fault. It paid Mr and Mrs E compensation of £250 in respect 
of any trouble and upset  these delays had caused.  
NFU reviewed the weekly allowance it was paying them (£170.25) and said it thought it was 
reasonable in the circumstances (it continued  to pay it until their mains  water supply was 
restored). Although  NFU was paying Mr and Mrs E an allowance so they could purchase 
bottled water, they had been  collecting  water from a nearby spring.  They asked NFU to pay 
them for the spring water they were collecting and their labour in doing  so. Mr and Mrs E 
asked for:
Ref: DRN504369822.5 hours of labour a day at £12.50  and hour (£218.75 per week)
8 pence per litre of water collected at 140 litres a day (£11.20 per day)
Buggy  hire - £25 a day.
NFU said it couldnt agree  the costs claimed  because it was satisfied the amount it was 
already paying  them  reflected the actual cost of purchasing bottled water  whereas there  was 
no charge associated with collecting spring water. It also said itd paid them an allowance for 
fuel for the buggy  which they owned themselves  (so had incurred no hire charge). 
Mr and Mrs E also asked  that NFU meet some  electricity charges  and the cost of water 
wasted by its contractors.  NFU said that if they produced evidence of their losses (in the 
form of bills) then it would  consider it. 
Unhappy with the outcome of NFUs investigation,  Mr and Mrs E complained to this service.  
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt think  NFU had treated  them  
unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with our investigator. They said they didnt think  the inconvenience 
theyd been caused had been compensated within the weekly allowance  NFU had paid 
them. They said theyd done the work of collecting the water on behalf of NFU so should  be 
paid for doing  so. They said that effectively they became contractors of NFU and, as such,  it 
was only reasonable to expect payment. They felt they had saved NFU a lot of money.  
Finally, they denied ever being offered alternative  accommodation.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
claim handling 
Ive reviewed the claim in full  taking account of the time line of events  and, having  done 
so, I dont think NFU handled  it badly.  Nor do I think it was responsible  for the delays that did 
occur beyond the minor ones its admitted to. All insurance claims,  by their very nature,  
attract a level of inconvenience. And where  an insurer  has made an already stressful  
situation worse through actions it has or hasnt taken, this service can intervene and award  
compensation. 
Whilst I can see that there were delays  associated with Mr and Mrs Es claim, I must be 
satisfied that they were  caused by NFU in order to fairly award  any compensation. It seems 
to me that progression  of the claim was largely hampered by the need  to get the consent  of 
the neighbours to access their land. Some neighbours  refused permission and some  were 
difficult to contact. But Ive seen evidence of NFUs  frequent attempts  to contact the 
neighbours and I cant  reasonably say it couldve done any more.  
The main  element to the claim was that Mr and Mrs Es neighbours were  allegedly  stealing 
their water supply. And the investigations NFU conducted were  relevant to the claim that 
was raised. And I can see from the papers that tracing the problem and finding evidence of 
the theft wasnt straightforward. But I think that the parties involved were doing all they could 
Ref: DRN50436983to find out what  was causing the issues Mr and Mrs E were  having with their water supply. 
So I cant reasonably  say that NFU unfairly  conducted the investigations it did.
I can also see that there were a few instances  where NFU didnt ask for the correct 
permissions and caused delays between inspections. But I can also see that NFU has 
admitted its shortcomings  and compensated Mr and Mrs E for them  by paying them  £250  for 
the trouble and upset caused. I think the amount NFU has paid is fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Indeed, if the complaint had come  before me without any compensation 
having been offered, its unlikely Id have awarded any more than this.
alternative accommodation
I know that Mr and Mrs E maintain that they werent offered alternative accommodation but 
Im unable to agree.  I can see that they were offered it on several occasions before and after 
Christmas 2017 and that it was declined because  they preferred to stay close  to their 
animals. I can see that NFU offered to install a bowser at the farm instead   so that they 
would have a temporary  water supply  but that this wasnt ultimately possible because of 
access issues. 
allowances and costs
NFU paid Mr and Mrs E a total of £170.25  per week whilst they remained in their home  
without a water supply. This was made up of:
bottled water at £87.50
bleach at £9.45
fuel for the buggy £8.40
fuel to collect the bottled water  £16.90
laundry £32
Showers at swimming pool £16
I think the amount  paid by NFU was reasonable.  I know that Mr and Mrs E say that they, in 
fact, collected water  from a nearby spring and that they want NFU to pay them  for doing  so. I 
cant reasonably  agree  that this would  be fair. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr and Mrs E were  without water. They were offered alternative 
accommodation and declined it. NFU tried to provide a temporary supply in the form of a 
bowser but this proved logistically  impossible. As Mr and Mrs E wanted to remain on their 
farm, NFU agreed to pay them for the cost associated with getting water to the farmhouse 
and being without essential  washing facilities for the duration of the time they were without 
mains water.  In the circumstances, I think thats fair. NFU didnt agree to pay them to collect 
spring water (either for the water collected or the fuel and labour associated  with doing  so) 
because it was already  paying for a temporary  water  supply in the form of bottled water  and 
temporary washing facilities.  I cant reasonably require NFU to effectively pay Mr and Mrs E 
twice for a temporary  water supply. And I cant fairly ignore that Mr and Mrs E havent  
suffered a loss - the spring water was free and the buggy used to transport it wasnt hired 
because they owned it (for which NFU was already paying a fuel allowance).  
Mr and Mrs E have  also said that they incurred some additional costs in the form of a loss of 
metered water and increased  electricity  charges.  NFU has said its willing  to consider these  
costs if Mr and Mrs E send it the associated  bills. I think  thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN50436984my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5043698