K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the administration of their whole-of-life policy by Countrywide 
Assured plc. Mr and Mrs B complain the business  set up their policy  with an incorrect birth 
date and then told them there was no surrender value on their policy when it corrected  the 
error. Mr and Mrs B complain the business  kept sending  letters  about unpaid  premiums even 
though they were trying to cancel their policy. They say they were forced to keep paying 
premiums in order to secure  the surrender value
background
Mr and Mrs B had a whole-of-life policy with Countrywide Assured plc. They were looking to 
cancel the policy.  So they contacted the business to ask about the surrender value. The 
business confirmed  the surrender value was around  £450; which  was lower than the fund 
value. 
As a result of the contact  between  Mr and Mrs B and the business it became  apparent  that 
an incorrect birth date was recorded on the policy for Mr B. The business asked Mr B to 
supply evidence of his date of birth in March 2017.
Mr and Mr B complained to the business  about  the deductions made to the fund value of 
their policy.  The business didnt uphold their complaint  and issued a final response letter on 
11 April 2017. It explained why the deductions  had been made  and noted  that the annual 
statements sent to Mr and Mrs B gave both the fund value and the surrender value. 
Mr and Mrs B then contacted the business and asked  to surrender their policy. 
In July 2017 the business wrote to Mr and Mrs B informing them  they had unpaid  premiums 
Mr and Mrs B sent a cheque for the unpaid premiums  to the business. In August 2017  the 
business wrote to them again about unpaid premiums. .
Mr B supplied evidence  of his correct date of birth in September 2017 and renewed  their 
request to surrender the policy. 
The business then recalculated the policy value based on the correct birth date. This 
resulted in a nil surrender value. It wrote to Mr and Mrs B to inform  them  of the surrender 
value. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to the business  in September 2017 about  Mr Bs birth date being 
recorded incorrectly and the nil surrender value. The business didnt uphold  the complaint  
and issued a final response on 25 September 2017.  It said the cost of life cover would have 
been affected by the older correct  birth date. It said that had to be taken into account  when  
calculating the surrender  value.
The business then wrote to Mr and Mrs B in October 2017 asking them  for further  
documentation. 
Mr and Mrs B complained that they had been  trying to cancel their policy and the business 
had made  repeated requests for further documentation.  The business upheld  their complaint 
in part and issued a final response on 7 November 2017. It said it shouldnt  have written to 
them in October 2017  and asked  for further  documentation as by then it was clear their 
policy had no remaining value. The business  apologised to Mr and Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN51906812Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the business  and referred their complaint to our service. They 
said Mr B had previously informed the business that the birth date was incorrect and the 
business had told him that it would be ok. They said Mrs B had suffered ill health and they 
were concerned as to whether they would have been covered if the worst  had happened. 
Mr and Mrs B also said they had been sent repeated requests to pay their premiums so they 
had continued  to do so in order to secure a surrender value. 
Their complaint wasnt upheld by our investigator. She said that the business  has 
recalculated the value  of the policy based on what the cost of premiums would have been if 
the correct birth date had been used from when  the policy was set up. This had resulted in 
no surrender value because the premiums would have been more expensive.  The 
adjudicator didnt feel this was unreasonable. 
She took into account what  Mr B had said about informing the business of the incorrect birth 
date but unfortunately there  was no record of that contact. The adjudicator noted their 
concerns about  whether they would have been covered but as no claim had needed to be 
made she didnt think  it was appropriate to make a determination on that point.
The adjudicator took into account  that Mr and Mrs B wanted to cancel their policy  and set up 
a new policy  elsewhere.  She said this had taken longer because  of the re-calculation but 
noted that they would have had cover  during  that time.
 
 Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They reiterated  that they had previously notified the business of 
the error.  Mr and Mrs B said they felt the business wouldnt have paid any claim so their 
policy would have been ineffective and they said all their premiums  should be refunded.  
They asked for their complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B were  looking  to surrender their whole-of-life policy.  This type of policy is 
primarily designed to provide  protection in the form of life assurance but it can also accrue a 
surrender value. 
When Mr and Mrs B contacted the business  in 2017 it became apparent that their policy  had 
an incorrect (younger)  birth date recorded  for Mr B. 
I have looked  at the application document for the life policy  completed  in 1985. I can see the 
birth date for Mr B has been completed with the same date as was recorded  on the policy.  
The application has been  signed by Mr and Mrs B confirming the details contained  there are 
correct. So the policy was set up in accordance with the details  on the application  form. I am 
not convinced  on balance that the business incorrectly processed  their application for life 
assurance.
Unfortunately the policy was set up with the incorrect birth date for Mr B. Mr B has said he 
informed the business the birth date was incorrect  a number of years  before this came to 
light in 2017. But the business  just told him it was merely an administrative error.
Ref: DRN51906813I have asked the business for any telephone calls or other records of this contact from a 
number of years before.  But it has confirmed that it is unable  to locate any calls from before 
2017. Its records show the only contact before then was a response to a plan review in 
2015. So I dont  think I can be satisfied on balance that the business  was properly informed 
that the policy needed to be amended. I also consider it unlikely that if this issue had been  
expressly raised with the business it would  have been content to leave things as they were  
because the birth date had an impact  on the cost of the policy.
I also note the statements  sent annually to Mr and Mrs B set out the birth date of each 
policyholder. So I think there were  further  opportunities for them  to notice there was an error 
and notify the business.  
In any event if the business had corrected this error at an earlier date the cost of premiums 
would have increased so Mr and Mrs B would have had to pay more  for their cover. So I am 
not persuaded on balance  that having  the incorrect birth date recorded has caused them any 
financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also complained about  the delay  in processing their surrender. In March 
2017 the business asked  Mr B for proof  of his birth date. That letter said the information was 
required to validate  its records and avoid any issue at the time of claim. So I am satisfied  it 
put Mr and Mrs B on notice that this was important information. Until the business received 
that information it was unable  to process the surrender so I think  there  was a justification for 
any delay. 
The information was received in September 2017.  The business then re-calculated  the value 
of the policy. Because the policy had been  set up with a younger birth date the premiums  
were cheaper than they should have been.  So when the correct premiums were  applied to 
the policy it reduced the surrender value  from £450  to nil.
I am satisfied that the business acted  reasonably  in recalculating the surrender value of the 
policy. Because the surrender value  it originally gave had been  calculated on the basis of 
incorrect information; namely the cost of the premiums.
In July and August 2017 the business sent letters  to Mr B and Mrs B warning them that there 
were unpaid premiums. As the policy was still live (because it hadnt  and couldnt  be properly 
surrendered until the information had been  received)  and Mr and Mrs B had stopped paying 
the premiums, I dont think it was unreasonable for the business  to have sent them letters 
warning that there were  unpaid premiums.
Mr and Mrs B said these  letters caused  them to carry on paying the premiums as they 
wanted to secure  a surrender value.  But the letters didnt say that premiums  had to be paid 
in order to receive a surrender value. They said benefits, in other words life cover, may be 
lost and may not be able to be reinstated. So I dont think on balance  that the business  
misled Mr and Mrs B into thinking they had to pay the premiums in order to secure the 
surrender value. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also said that the business must have known there was no surrender 
value when it sent the unpaid premium letters. I dont think the business would have been in 
a position to calculate the surrender value until it received proof  of the correct  date. So whilst 
the business may have anticipated there would be a change  in the value it wouldnt have 
been able to confirm that until it had that updated  information.
Ref: DRN51906814However given the circumstances  the business  has said it will refund the premiums paid in 
July 2017 and September 2017 (totalling  £174.96) as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs B have  questioned whether their policy would have actually been considered 
valid by the business in the event of a claim.  I appreciate  there may have been an impact on 
a claim but there hasnt  been a claim so I dont think the likelihood of a hypothetical claim 
being paid is a matter that is appropriate  for me to assess. In any event I am not convinced it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask the business to refund all the premiums as it processed 
the information which was on the application form signed by Mr and Mrs B.
The business has acknowledged to Mr and Mrs B that it made a mistake when it requested 
further documentation in October 2017  in order to surrender the policy. As it was by then 
aware there  was no surrender value it shouldnt  have  asked  for further  documentation  to be 
completed. It acknowledged this at a fairly early stage and apologised. So whilst I can 
appreciate it must have  been irritating for Mr and Mrs B to be asked for further 
documentation to be completed I dont think I need to ask the business to do anything else.  
I am satisfied that the business addressed that error  by apologising to Mr and Mrs B. 
I can see it must have been  upsetting for Mr and Mrs B to find out there was no surrender 
value for their policy. But I am not persuaded on balance that the business has acted  
unreasonably or incorrectly in the way it administered Mr and Mrs Bs policy.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Countrywide 
Assured plc for the reasons outlined  in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5190681