K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the way Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) handled a 
claim on their home insurance policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs M submitted a claim to L&G following an escape of water  in their home. They 
said their claim  was handled in a shambolic,  upsetting  and at times rude manner  by the 
various companies involved in dealing with the claim and refitting  their home.  
Although Mr and Mrs M were told L&G and its contractors would manage the project  they felt 
as if they had to manage everything themselves. And they were  given different information 
depending on who they spoke to. So Mr and Mrs M would like L&G to acknowledge the 
distress theyve suffered  and compensate  them properly for their trouble and upset.
L&G apologised for the level of service  Mr and Mrs M had received.  Itd fallen short  of the 
high standards  L&G aimed  for. Thered  been some initial confusion about who was dealing  
with the flooring part of the claim. But it was agreed which company would install  the flooring 
and the rest of the reinstatement  work had been completed a couple  of weeks  later.  L&G 
accepted the claim shouldve  been managed better. And mistakes  had been  made  in its 
communications. So it had offered £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs M.  
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with L&Gs response. So they contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He appreciated Mr and Mrs M had been  distressed and 
inconvenienced by the water damage. But he said unfortunately that was to be expected due 
to the circumstances. And it wasnt something  the insurer  should be responsible for.
After reviewing the timeline  of contact and responses our investigator  felt L&G had dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint fairly. He didnt think their claim  had been delayed  unnecessarily 
by L&G or its appointed  suppliers. And he felt their requests had been dealt with in a timely  
manner. Our investigator could see Mr and Mrs M had been told they would have a one stop 
shop to deal with. And L&G had acknowledged the communications between  its different 
suppliers and contractors  couldve  been better. But he felt L&Gs offer of £150 compensation 
was a fair response. And he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. The work had only moved forwards  because  of relentless 
communication from them. It wasnt unreasonable to expect contractors to be aware of the 
work required and to complete any outstanding issues within  a few days. And theyd had to 
take time off work to deal with unnecessary visits from suppliers who were extremely 
frustrating to deal with. So they feel L&G should offer considerably  more  compensation. And 
theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This has clearly been a very frustrating  experience  for Mr and Mrs M. They suffered an 
escape of water from a central heating pipe which wouldve been very distressing. And they 
expected L&G to handle their claim as efficiently and painlessly as possible. 
Ref: DRN59877802Mr and Mrs M feel particularly upset about  the time it has taken to put things right and how 
theyve had to be involved to keep things moving.  So Ive looked  very carefully at everything 
thats happened to see if L&G needs  to do anything more to put things right.
An escape  of water can be very upsetting  for the occupants. They  have to live with the 
damage on a daily basis and naturally want things putting back to normal as quickly  as 
possible. But unfortunately some  degree  of distress and inconvenience is inevitable  in such  
situations and it can take many  weeks for damp areas to properly dry. I can see the leak 
affected a number of rooms as well as furniture and it was necessary to co-ordinate various 
suppliers and fitters. Mr and Mrs M also had to consider and agree to replacements for 
damaged furniture.
Ive looked at L&Gs notes for the claim. I can see Mr and Mrs M felt things were taking a 
long time to get going. L&G explained there were a number of processes  it had to follow  in 
relation to costings,  works and health  and safety.  The initial  visit took place within a couple of 
days of contacting L&G and it was clear  that some  areas would need  drying  thoroughly 
before repairs could begin. A case manager  was appointed and Mr and Mrs M were told a 
company would be their one stop shop to deal with repairs and replacements.  
Our investigator gave  a thorough time-line  in his view so I wont repeat it all here.  But I can 
see the strip-out was completed just over two weeks after the leak and the property was 
confirmed dry and ready for the next stage  a couple of weeks after that. There does seem  to 
have been some confusion over the flooring and inspection of the damaged furniture. And I 
know Mr and Mrs M found it frustrating to take time off work when some  of the visits didnt go 
as planned.
But I can see the flooring was completed just over two weeks after the property had been 
declared dry. And the remainder of the work seems to have been finished about three weeks 
later. Overall  the repairs  and replacement of damaged  items  took just over two months. And 
I dont think thats  an unreasonable amount of time considering  the amount of damage 
caused and the need to dry areas  before repairs could take place.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs M felt the repairs only took place because they were 
constantly calling the various  contractors to keep things  moving.  And the one stop solution  
didnt manage  their claim as efficiently  as expected. There were  also problems including  
misspelling names and vouchers being issued  before a cash settlement was offered.
But based  on everything Ive seen I dont  think the repairs  were  delayed unnecessarily by 
the actions of L&G or its contractors. I recognise the contributions  Mr and Mrs M made to 
keep everything moving forwards.  Unfortunately a phone call from a person directly  involved 
will sometimes be more  effective than a management company involved with countless 
projects and numerous  sub-contractors  who will have  procedures to follow as they progress 
the schedule of works.
L&G has accepted  that not everything  went as smoothly as it could have. Its apologised for 
the inconvenience caused and offered  £150  compensation to Mr and Mrs M. I know they 
would like L&G to increase its offer. And I dont  underestimate the upset this has caused.  
But taking everything  into account I think thats  a reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
And I wont be asking L&G to do anything more.
Ref: DRN59877803my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5987780