K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Gefion Insurance A/S cancelled his commercial motor insurance  policy.  
He wants the cancellation  record removed and a reimbursement of his cancellation costs. 
background
Mr J bought a policy  from Gefion for a van he had bought from his father. Gefion was 
concerned that Mr J had had a policy for the same van seven months earlier,  which had 
been cancelled.  Mr J explained that hed intended  to buy the van then, but he had changed  
his mind. The said the van was then off the road. He couldnt  provide the full V5 registration  
document as proof because it was with the DVLA. Gefion was unhappy with this and the 
policy was cancelled. Mr J said his new cover  was more expensive  because of this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Gefion had 
unfairly cancelled  the policy because he thought Mr J had provided  a reasonable explanation 
about the gap in the vans insurance.  He thought Gefion  should have waited until it had the 
V5, which backed  up Mr Js account.  
To put things right, he recommended  that Gefion remove  record of the cancellation and 
refund Mr Js cancellation charges. He thought that if Mr Js new insurers wouldnt then give 
him a premium refund, it should refund  Mr J the increase in premium hed paid due to the 
cancellation on his record. He thought it also should refund Mr J the difference  in premium  
hed paid, after removal of the cancellation record, in the following year. And he thought 
Gefion should  pay Mr J £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Gefion didnt reply to the investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Gefion has relied on Mr Js policys  cancellation  section to cancel his policy. This says that it 
can cancel the policy, with seven days notice, if it has good reason, including where  it 
considers a risk unacceptable. It said Mr J had provided changing versions of events 
regarding the ownership and history  of the van. And it said this was sufficient to make the 
risk unacceptable. 
So Ive looked  to see if Mr J has done  as Gefion  states and if it has justified its decision to 
cancel according  to the policy terms and conditions. 
Gefion was concerned  about the gap in the vans cover between January and August 2018. 
It thought there may be a discrepancy in the date of ownership of the van. The broker asked 
Mr J to provide an explanation  for this. 
Ref: DRN54175852Mr J explained that hed wanted  to buy the van from his father  and so had taken out cover  
for it. Hed then changed his mind and cancelled the policy.  He said the van was insured by 
his father  and then taken  off the road (declared SORN)  until he bought  it in August 2018 and 
took out new cover for it. So I think Mr J provided  a reasonable  explanation of the vans 
ownership. 
Gefion thought Mr J was changing  his story.  But I dont agree. I think Mr J had provided  the 
explanation it had requested. Hed never  said that hed owned the van since  January 2018 
and then changed the details on the V5 only in September.   
Gefion also asked Mr J for all pages  of the vans V5 registration document. He said he 
couldnt send  all of this as it was with the DVLA.  But he did provide the new owners  slip. 
Instead of waiting for the full V5, Gefion  cancelled the policy.
I dont think this was fair or reasonable. I think Mr J had provided  a clear explanation  about 
why he didnt continue  with the policy taken  out in January 2018. Hed explained  what  had 
happened to the van in the interim. He provided the new owners slip from the V5. I think  
Gefion could have  waited for the full V5 to be provided before deciding to cancel the policy. 
This would have shown that Mr J owned  the van from August 2018.
So I think Gefion hasnt  justified its decision  to cancel Mr Js policy  according to the policy 
terms and conditions. 
I think Gefion should now put things right for Mr J. Having the cancellation  on his record has 
affected his subsequent premiums. So I think Gefion should remove  the cancellation  marker  
and refund Mr J the cancellation charges he paid, and make  good the consequent increase 
in his premiums if needed. 
Mr J has also said that the new policy taken out after the cancellation  was more expensive  
than Gefions. He wouldnt have had to take this policy but for Gefions mistake.  So I think  it 
should refund him the extra premium  he had to pay. The investigator also recommended  that 
Gefion should  pay Mr J £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  I think  that 
would be fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what  Id require in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Gefion Insurance  A/S to do the following:
1.Remove the cancellation  marker  from Mr Js record and refund  him the cancellation 
charges he paid.
2.If Mr Js subsequent insurers  decline to refund  him the difference in premium he was 
charged because  of the cancellation,  then Gefion should refund this amount to Mr J, on 
provision of reasonable evidence of the increase  in costs.
3.For the policy taken  in October 2018,  refund any further difference  in premium after the 
recalculation with the cancellation removed, on provision of reasonable evidence.
4.Pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by the unfair 
cancellation of his policy. 
Ref: DRN54175853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417585