K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that a transfer  she made from her account with The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc didnt arrive in the intended  beneficiarys account abroad.  
background
In September  2018 Miss F went into an RBS branch to make a $30,000 transfer  to a contact 
who lived abroad. Miss F provided  the correct 12 digit account  number and beneficiary name  
to the RBS branch staff. But RBS, when  inputting the details electronically, made an error 
and included  one extra digit in the recipients account  number.  
Miss F complained, saying that the recipient had never received the funds. She initially 
complained and said she had made the payment as a result of being  scammed,  but later 
explained that she had called it a scam  because she had been told by RBS that this would 
enable it to recall the payment. In the following months RBS attempted to recall the payment 
with no success.  The foreign receiving  bank confirmed, multiple times, that the money had 
been credited  to the recipient and that the beneficiary was unwilling  to release the funds. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Fs complaint. He carried out a number of enquiries  
with RBS to determine where Miss Fs transfer  eventually went. He considered the evidence  
available, including  direct  evidence from the receiving bank abroad that the payment had 
been credited  to the correct 12 digit bank  account number. As a result, while he 
acknowledged that RBS had made an error, he didnt consider it had any impact on Miss Fs 
instructions. So he didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss F didnt agree with the investigator. In short, she said that she couldnt  pursue her 
complaint abroad  because she wasnt  the agent carrying out the transfer:  that was RBS. She 
said she didnt have  the valid account  number  where the payment was made, as RBS had 
used an incorrect one. She explained  that she had paid for a rental property  abroad,  and the 
beneficiary was now not responding and she had made a huge loss. She said she couldnt 
pursue the matter with the police  abroad  either for the same reason. She said she had been 
told the police couldnt freeze the transfer because of RBS not entering the correct  account 
numbers. 
Miss F subsequently  also confirmed that the police abroad had said that without a valid 
account number  on the form, they couldnt  investigate the matter. But they didnt put this in 
writing. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
I understand the situation has been  very stressful for Miss F who understandably  feels that 
she has made a significant  loss. 
But Im afraid that I have  little to add to what the investigator has already said.  The transfer 
form with the incorrect  account number is simply evidence of the transfer RBS attempted  to 
Ref: DRN58799542make. Its not of itself definitive  evidence  of where the money was credited. This evidence 
has been provided by the recipient bank. In that regard, its very clear  that there was only 
one digit wrong  in the account number that RBS had typed in when making  the transfer. So 
its not the case that the account  number was completely unrecognisable.  And this wrong  
digit was in fact an additional digit  in other  words,  the correct account  number  ought  to 
have had 12 digits, but in fact it had 13. So 12 digits made up the correct  account number 
where Miss F was attempting to make the transfer.  
I agree  that, initially, the receiving bank didnt  provide confirmation of precisely which 
account the amount had been credited  to. I can see RBS repeatedly asked this question, 
particularly once it became clear  that Miss F was no longer alleging that she had been 
scammed. But eventually, the receiving bank unequivocally confirmed both the name of the 
recipient account  holder, and the 12 digit account  where the money  was paid. Both the name 
and the account number  exactly  matched the details Miss F had initially provided to RBS for 
where she wanted the money to be paid.  So its clear  that, on receiving the instruction from 
RBS, the receiving bank  correctly identified where  the money needed to be sent, and 
amended the instruction so as to remove the 13th erroneous digit. 
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that while there  was clearly  an error by RBS originally, 
it had no effect on Miss Fs instruction  or where she wanted the money  to be paid. Im 
satisfied the evidence demonstrates  that, on balance, its more  likely than not that the money 
was paid to the correct  bank account. As a result, Im sorry to say that its for Miss F to 
pursue the matter with her contact abroad.  I dont think  it would  be fair or reasonable to ask 
RBS to reimburse her this money. And I dont consider theres anything  further  RBS can or 
should do to establish what happened to it, or why the beneficiary appears to allege they 
havent received  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5879954