K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2003. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr M with a view that this complaint shouldnt  
be upheld. But Mr M didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M says he has no memory of agreeing to buy the PPI and cant  remember  much  about 
getting his credit card. We now know Mr M took out the card and PPI by post in October 
2003. 
Ive seen the actual postal  application  form Mr M used and theres  a question on it asking 
him to choose whether he wants this type of policy. It says please enrol me in Capital Ones 
Payment Protection  Scheme (see leaflet  attached).  There are then separate yes and no 
boxes and I can see Mr M ticked the yes box. In my view this document does clearly  
demonstrate that Mr M must have wanted the policy at the time.  And because  he specifically 
selected the cover, its clear to me that he consented to the PPI.
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. But Capital One still had a 
responsibility to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
My experience of these  Capital One postal  sales, from that time period, is that the 
application form was accompanied by some information about the terms and conditions. And 
I note Mr M was prompted on the form to read through these. As he most probably  filled in 
the form in his own time without any input from Capital One, I think he probably had enough 
information and time in which to make his own informed choice. 
I can certainly see how Capital One couldve made improvements to the application form to 
make it clearer.  But Im afraid this doesnt  change how I view the case  and I still think he 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to him wanting  the cover. I also think  Mr M was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the PPI was 79p for every  £100 of balance  outstanding on his credit card 
and I dont think this would have been  unaffordable for him.
Mr M told us he already benefitted  from sick pay with his job. But as Ive already said, this 
wasnt an advised sale, so the choice about having  PPI was for him to make.  In the event of 
a successful claim, the policy  wouldve  paid off 10% of his outstanding  balance for up to a 
Ref: DRN50083032year and I think this is most  likely why he specifically  chose to have PPI when he filled out 
his application  form. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I can see how the cover couldve been of use to him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Capital  One (Europe) plc to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008303