K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC incorrectly applied a credit marker to her 
account. Ms P wants to be compensated for the trouble and upset she suffered.
background
Ms P has a mortgage  with Barclays. Ms P applied for a mortgage with another lender but 
this was refused  in April 2019 as there was a late payment marker incorrectly applied to her 
account for a supposed missed payment in March 2019. Ms P then had to prove to Barclays  
that she hadnt missed  the payment and agreed to remove the marker  on 10 May 2019. But 
Barclays then sent Ms P a letter on 13 May 2019  to say that her account  was £43.26 in 
arrears and that Barclays wouldnt remove the marker unless Ms P paid this which she did 
although it wasnt owed.  Barclays  then removed the marker on 15 May 2019. Barclays 
offered Ms P compensation of £400  and refunded the £43.26.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld and that compensation 
of £500 would be more appropriate compensation. Whilst Ms P accepted this, Barclays felt 
that given the speed  with which it dealt with the complaint that its original offer was 
reasonable and asked  for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P was applying for a mortgage with another lender and but this was refused. It turned out 
that Barclays in error had reported to a credit reference agency  that she had missed a 
payment. I understand that her financial adviser told Ms P of this on 24 April 2019. Barclays 
accepts that this shouldnt have happened  and the question  is the proper level of 
compensation.
Barclays in its email  to us of 10 July says that it acted quickly from 7 May when it says that 
Ms P raised a complaint.  Whilst I accept that, it does appear that Barclays  was aware of the 
issue certainly from 1 May 2019. I note that by 9 May that Ms P phoned Barclays in some 
distress believing  that if it wasnt sorted she would lose her purchase and sale and that she 
had visited her GP. Indeed Ms P would have had this hanging  over her from 24 April. I 
imagine for her that it would have been an uncomfortable situation  and one of some 
embarrassment as it might have appeared to her financial adviser  that her financial situation  
wasnt as sound  as she had suggested  it was. Ms P was put to some trouble to provide 
Barclays with information about her credit  file and her account. I am also aware  that whilst 
sorting out the matter of the credit reference Barclays  would have undermined  Ms Ps 
confidence in the bank  by suggesting she was in arrears  when  she wasnt. So although I 
accept that from 7 May that Barclays deal promptly with the matter I believe that £500 is fair 
compensation for this complaint and on that basis  I uphold  it. As Barclays  has already paid 
£400, I will make an award for the balance of £100.  
Ref: DRN57099562my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Ms P 
£100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5709956