K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society has debited  her credit card account with a 
higher amount than she authorised. Mrs Ss complaint is brought by Mr S on her behalf.
background
In September  2017 Mrs S says that she used an official  government  website to purchase an 
electronic travel visa (eTA). She says that the cost was clearly displayed  as $7 and she 
received the eTA. When she returned  from her holiday she found  that she had been charged 
$99.
Mrs Ss representative, Mr S, has spoken to Nationwide a number of times to try to resolve 
matters. It accepted that it caused unnecessary delays in investigating the matter  and paid 
Mrs S £50 in compensation for this. Mrs S then received  a further  letter from Nationwide 
which she feels has brought her representatives  honesty into question. It said that she had 
used an unofficial  website to apply for the eTA and so she had paid an administration  fee as 
well as the £7 eTA fee. Because  of this, Nationwide said that there  wasnt anything further it 
could do. Mrs S remained unhappy  because  Nationwide couldnt provide details of the site it 
said she used.
Our investigator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld. After  considering  all the 
available evidence, she wasnt able to conclude that Mrs S had used the official government  
website to obtain her eTA and she couldnt say that the payment wasnt  authorised.
Mr S responded on Mrs Ss behalf  to say, in summary, that she did use the official website 
when she applied for the eTA. He felt that Nationwide should apologise for being  abusive to 
him when  it said it wouldnt refund the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for much  the same reasons as the investigator.
In short,  Nationwide  is required  to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  (the PSRs  
2009) for transactions before 13 January 2018 . Mrs S says she didnt authorise the payment 
of $99, only a payment  of $7. She is seeking  a refund of the difference.  So my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or I not I think  Mrs S authorised the payment. 
Mrs S doesnt dispute that she used her card to make the payment. She does say that she 
didnt authorise  a payment of $99, just a payment of $7. I can understand her concern  
because an eTA costs  just $7 and Mrs S says that this amount was clearly displayed.
I have carefully considered all that has happened and reviewed Nationwides  technical 
evidence. I accept that Mrs S is quite  sure that she used the official  government  website to 
purchase the eTA.  But, on balance, I dont  think she did. I say this because I find that Visa 
has provided evidence  to Nationwide to show that the payment was made  to a third party,  
was processed in Europe, not directly by the relevant  government, and wasnt made  in the 
currency of the country of the visa. It is also clear  that there are a number of third party 
Ref: DRN53456172websites, which look legitimate, offering to purchase  eTAs and most dont make it clear  that 
the service they provide is for an additional  fee.
I know Mrs S would like to know, with certainty,  which site Nationwide says she used.  I 
accept that the visa itself came directly from the relevant government but this isnt surprising. 
The site that Mrs S used  would simply have made  her visa application  on her behalf (for the 
additional fee) and the government sends out the visa confirmation. Im sorry but it now isnt 
possible to find the actual site. It seems  that a number of these  third party  sites have been 
blocked or taken  down  because that countrys government has had a lot of complaints about 
them.
Mrs S says that Nationwide, in investigating  the problem, was abusive  to her representative 
but I dont consider this was the case. I find that Nationwide  was explaining that, as Mrs S 
had genuinely  applied for the visa, it considered she did this, inadvertently, through a third 
party. As she was provided with the service she requested  and she did receive the eTA 
Nationwide had no grounds on which to challenge  the transaction under  the Visa 
regulations.
In the circumstances, and based on all the evidence, I think that it is more  likely than not that 
Mrs S did, unwittingly, use a third party website  for the eTA and so incurred the higher  fee. I 
know Mrs S will be disappointed but I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to refuse a 
refund of the disputed transaction on the basis it was authorised by Mrs S. 
Nationwide has already paid Mrs S £50 for the length of time it took to investigate  her 
complaint. Im satisfied  this is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5345617