K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  called a Select Account (SA) 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mr B took out a fee free Classic Account with Lloyds in July 2001.
He then upgraded to an SA in December 2001 which incurred  a monthly fee of £4. 
Mr B closed the SA in December 2002.
He says he chose  to take out the SA because Lloyds told him it was the way to get a credit 
card and a loan.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Bs complaint and decided that Lloyds didnt mis-sell the SA. 
Mr B disagrees so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mr B was aware the SA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in out taking the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
Mr B had previously had a fee free account.  So I think he knew that fee free accounts  were 
available. 
Mr B says he took out the SA to get a credit card and a loan. But Mr B never took out a 
credit card with Lloyds so I think his memory  is mistaken on this. I also think  its more likely 
than not that he wouldve been aware that he could get a loan from Lloyds or elsewhere 
without opening  a fee paying account  if he needed  it. I say this because  loans were well 
advertised and freely  available from Lloyds and other financial institutions.  Lloyds did give 
him a £6000 loan at the time which indicates to me that he had a reasonable credit score. So 
I think its unlikely hed have been  refused a loan elsewhere if hed tried to get one.
So I think Mr B was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the SA.
Lloyds has said this was an information  only sale by which  it means it didnt advise Mr B to 
take out the account or recommend  he did so. Mr B says Lloyds did recommend the account 
to him. Im going  to assume  that Lloyds did advise  Mr B to take out the SA as this is to his 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision.
So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr B with sufficient  information about the SA to make an 
informed choice. And in recommending  the SA, it also needed to take adequate steps to 
ensure that the SA was a reasonable  fit for Mr Bs circumstances.
Ref: DRN51412282The SA contained  a range  of benefits including  AA breakdown cover, extended  warranty,  90-
day purchase protection and better  interest  rates for loans and overdrafts. It also offered a 
£50 overdraft free of interest and charges. 
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr B about the SA but I think  it 
wouldve described it in some detail as it was trying to sell the product to him. And I think  it 
would have been of interest to him in his circumstances.  I say this because the AA 
breakdown service covered Mr B whether he was driving a vehicle or simply a passenger; he 
took out an immediate £6000 loan,  so would have benefitted form the better terms on that; 
Lloyds has provided  evidence that he subsequently  used and benefitted from the overdraft 
facility; and there was nothing in his circumstances that would have stopped him using any 
of the benefits.
So in my view the SA was suitable  for Mr B. And there was no information that he didnt 
receive from Lloyds that would likely  have put him off taking  out the SA. So I dont think  Mr B 
lost out when Lloyds sold him the SA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141228