K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) rejected his chargeback claim 
for the purchase  of a car that he says was faulty. He said Nationwide told him hed made  the 
claim too late. He wants the purchase  price  of the car to be refunded  to him.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 June  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  in part 
and invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they wished to make. I 
said that  while Mr C had received  a judgment  against the garage  for his claim, the court 
hadnt made a decision  about  whether the car was defective when he bought  it. I therefore  
concluded that I didnt think his chargeback claim against Nationwide  would  have been  
successful. 
However, I did think that Nationwides explanation about Mr C breaching the permitted 
timescales as being the reason for denying his claim had been confusing. And I thought  
Nationwide should  pay a further  £100  for the distress and inconvenience this explanation  
may have  caused.  
Nationwide said it accepted the provisional  decision and agreed  to pay an extra £100 on top 
of the £100 it had already  offered. But Mr C didnt agree and made the following points in 
reply:
He is fully conversant with the relevant regulations and laws and believes that if his 
complaint had been considered along those lines then it should  be upheld.
The purchase price of the car had been  £6,850 not £4,350.
Soon  after he purchased  the car he asked the dealer for a refund but was only 
offered less than half of what he paid for the vehicle. Therefore it was impossible for 
him to have returned the vehicle without  being  cheated.
Within two days of getting the vehicle he explained to the dealer that there  were  
serious issues with it. Mr C said there were numerous problems which  were all 
discovered within the warranty he had with the car including  one quite serious 
problem  which was resolved. This suggested the vehicle had major problems when 
he bought it and showed it must have been  defective
Although Id said he hadnt  proven his claim in court that the vehicle was defective,  
the fact was that he had won his case. And further he thought it was clear  he would 
have won the case purely on the garages failure  to adhere to the warranty, and its 
failure to attend  the court case demonstrated that it knew it would have lost.
He believed the chargeback would have been successful because the car was 
defective and if hed been made aware  of the defects he wouldnt have purchased 
the vehicle. He said the car had been  inspected a number  of times during the 
Ref: DRN57747342warranty period and it had cost him £3,000 in repairs  which should have been 
completed under the garage  warranty.
Although Id stated  that a second hand  vehicle wouldnt be expected to be in perfect  
condition Mr C said it still shouldnt be faulty or broken according to the Consumer 
Rights Act. This vehicle,  in his view, was defective  and the dealer should  be subject 
to the act. 
This information was available  to Nationwide when he raised his claim as it is now. In 
his view Nationwide should have raised a chargeback claim. 
He believes the garage is still trading although  it has changed its name.  But the 
garage isnt a limited  company so he believes Nationwide could have pursued the 
claim against the garage.
He noted Id said it wouldnt be fair for Nationwide to have to meet his claim and 
refund him. But he thought this wasnt a case of being fair and reasonable but acting 
according to the law and relevant  regulations. He believed that  based on the 
correct interpretation  of the law  his claim would have been successful. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having carefully  considered Mr Cs further  
submissions and his response, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came  to in my 
provisional decision.
Mr C says the legislation around consumer rights, trading standards and Visa operations  
show his case to have  been proven. And he says that if I adhere  to the law then I must 
decide that he was sold a faulty vehicle for which he should be able to get a refund. He says 
he won his court case against  the garage  in question  although he wasnt  able to get his 
money back because  the business changed  its name. But he believes he would have been 
successful with a chargeback  claim and therefore  that Nationwide  acted  incorrectly by 
refusing to pursue such a claim. 
I have some sympathy with Mr Cs position because its clear hes had ongoing problems 
with a second hand car he bought  which has resulted in him spending  significant  sums of 
money to correct some of the issues. But Nationwide wasnt the merchant  in this case. It 
didnt supply the vehicle but simply provided  a facility for Mr C to use his money to pay for 
the car. So Nationwides only involvement  here is whether  it should  have acted  to pursue 
Mr Cs chargeback claim when he approached it in 2018. As Ive said previously chargeback 
is a voluntary scheme based on the card schemes  rules. 
There wasnt a guarantee that Mr C would have got his money  back  in the event of a claim 
and the final decision  wasnt  Nationwides to make, although Nationwide needed to consider  
the proof Mr C had that the vehicle was not as described and defective at the time he 
bought it. I would have expected Nationwide to have  pursued a chargeback claim where 
there was a reasonable prospect of success.  So Ive considered  Mr Cs evidence very 
carefully. And I can see that he experienced a number of issues  with the car and has spent 
money of his own on repairs. Although I note the garage did try to resolve the issues Mr C 
experienced soon after the car was purchased.  
Ref: DRN57747343Mr C says these issues  werent properly resolved and must have been present when he 
bought the car hence the problems that a main dealer diagnosed some time later.  He says 
this proves the car was defective when he bought it. But I dont agree that Mr C provided  
evidence that his car was defective  at the time of the sale.  He has evidence  from garages 
about the repairs that were carried out to his car sometime  later, but these  were  a snapshot 
of the car at that time. Theres no documentary evidence linking the problems with the car at 
that time with its condition  when it was sold.
What I would have  expected Mr C to have  provided to Nationwide  was evidence that the 
problems he later experienced  would in all likelihood have  been  present when he bought the 
car  and more  crucially,  evidence of what condition would have been expected of the car 
when he bought it.  Mr  C bought an eight  year-old second hand car that had done 125,000 
miles when  he purchased it. The purchase  document Mr C signed said that my attention 
has been drawn to the age of the vehicle and the fact that defects maybe present So it 
would have been unreasonable to expect the car to have been perfect and without any 
problems. Whilst Mr C has provided  evidence  that the car needed repairs,  he hasnt 
provided any evidence  about what might have  been  expected of a car like his  that is, of 
similar age, mileage and price. Perhaps more importantly, he didnt provide that to 
Nationwide so it could  submit it with a chargeback request.   
So, in my view, I dont think the evidence that Mr C was able to provide was sufficient to 
show Nationwide that a chargeback claim would have been  successful. In the 
circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable of Nationwide  to decline to make  that request. And as 
Ive said previously although Mr C says he won his subsequent court case,  which he says 
proves beyond doubt  that the garage was wrong and didnt adhere to the Consumer Rights 
Act, Im not satisfied that the outcome of his legal case proved the car was defective when 
sold. 
The judgment that Mr C obtained was a default judgment, made because the garage didnt 
respond to the proceedings.  It wasnt a judgment  made after consideration of the merits. The 
issue of whether the car was of a satisfactory  quality wasnt tested during the court  case and 
I dont think that the evidence  Mr C has brought shows  that a chargeback claim would have 
succeeded. So I dont  think  Nationwide acted incorrectly  by not presenting  Mr Cs claim to 
the relevant card scheme.  
Nationwide hasnt disputed what I said about the confusion it caused when explaining that 
Mr Cs claim couldnt be pursued  because of the rules around  time limits. So I think the 
award of a further £100 for the impact  that had on Mr C when he was trying  to make his 
chargeback claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, my decision is that 
Nationwide Building  Society should  pay Mr C a further £100 for the inconvenience caused  by 
what it said about the time limits relating to bringing  his claim. It should  also pay Mr C the 
£100 it previously  offered  for the mis-information about commencing his refund request  if 
this hasnt already  been received by Mr C.
Ref: DRN57747344Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57747345copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  rejected  his chargeback claim for the purchase of a car that he says 
was faulty. He said Nationwide told him hed made  the claim too late. He wants  the purchase price  of 
the car to be refunded to him.
background
Mr C bought  a second hand car from a garage for £4,350 in October 2016,  using his Nationwide visa 
debit card. He returned  to the garage soon afterwards for some repair work as he was experiencing 
problems with the car, but Mr C says the car suffered  further problems  afterwards. So in December 
2016 another  garage inspected the car. It said there  were  a number of issues with the vehicle so Mr C 
asked the first garage to repair  them. But it refused.  
Mr C then went to court to get the garage to refund him part of the purchase price but the garage 
didnt defend the claim and wouldnt refund  any money to him. Mr C obtained  a summary judgement  
and engaged  a bailiff to collect  the money.  But he was told the original seller no longer existed and 
the previous owner had set up a new business, so the bailiff couldnt recoup the money. Mr C then 
spoke to a solicitor who told him that he should consider  a chargeback claim as he believed the car 
had been sold not as described.
So Mr C approached Nationwide  to ask it to raise a chargeback. Mr C says Nationwide told him on 
the phone that it would raise the claim but  in June  2018,  it wrote to Mr C telling him that he had 
made his request outside  of the scheme providers  time limit and therefore  it wouldnt be able to assist 
him.
Mr C complained to Nationwide. He said it had already told him that his claim  had been accepted as it 
was within the time limits. He said hed done all he could  to resolve the matter with the garage and 
had decided  to raise a claim through  Nationwide as soon  as he realised  the garage wasnt going to 
pay him. He maintained that when he purchased the car it hadnt been  as described and he wanted 
Nationwide to refund his money and pursue his claim.  
But Nationwide said the chargeback  time rules  had recently changed  and  from the evidence it had 
seen from Mr Cs legal representative, hed been aware  of problems in 2016 so he had brought his 
claim outside of the time limits allowed, because when he contacted  it in 2018 that was more  than 120 
days after the transaction. 
Nationwide also said that it didnt tell Mr C his request  would be processed  just that in some cases  
involving counterfeit  goods  it could process a claim  within 540 days of the transaction. But Nationwide  
did accept that it had been  slow to respond to Mr Cs complaint  and had sent him a text, in error, 
saying it was starting  his refund request. So it paid him £100 compensation  for the inconvenience 
caused. Unhappy  with this response  Mr C brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the claim  and said it should be upheld.  She said she believed  
Mr C had satisfied the rules under the Visa Europe Operating Regulations 2015 and she thought 
there was compelling evidence in Mr Cs favour that a chargeback  request would  have been 
successful. She thought  Nationwide should pay Mr C the amount that hed put forward in his 
particulars of claim  to the court plus interest.
Nationwide disagreed. It said that the chargeback rules werent met in Mr Cs case  and as he hadnt 
returned the car or proved the garage had refused to accept the car back then the claim would have 
been rejected by the scheme provider.  It also felt that the garage would  have ultimately defended  the 
claim and would probably have succeeded given  it had changed ownership.
Ref: DRN57747346But the investigator  believed that it was unlikely  the garage would have taken the car back   thereby 
satisfying one of the chargeback rules. And she said that  in her view, if Nationwide  had started the 
chargeback process  and the garage had successfully  defended  the claim  Nationwide could have 
reclaimed the money from Mr C.
Nationwide continued  to disagree.  It said its position remain unchanged as it believed the chargeback 
wouldnt have been successful  and therefore Mr C remained  in the same position as he would have  
been had it taken action.  Nationwide asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman so its 
been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Chargeback is a process which allows  customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there is a 
problem with goods or services theyve paid for. There is no automatic right to a chargeback.  But we 
consider it is good practice for a financial business to consider  carrying out a chargeback if its 
customer asked it to do this 
If I am to order Nationwide to refund  all or part of the cost of the car, I must be satisfied  that it acted 
incorrectly in deciding not to make a claim under the chargeback regulations. And I must also be 
satisfied that  on balance  if the chargeback  had gone ahead it would have succeeded.  Regulations 
only permit a chargeback to the extent that the services are not as described  or defective. 
would the chargeback have  been successful? 
In considering whether  to go ahead with the chargeback  Nationwide would have needed  to assess 
the information Mr C provided about the car being not as described and defective.
In the first instance Id expect Mr C to try to resolve  this issue with the garage involved,  which I can 
see hes done. Then  when there was little prospect of resolution Id expect  him to make his claim with 
Nationwide. In this case Mr C says Nationwide refused  to submit his claim because it said hed made 
it outside of the time limits. But he maintains that he had brought his claim within the overall time 
allowed  and a court had issued a decision in his favour to show that he ought to be successful in the 
event of a claim.  
Ive seen the court evidence that Mr C has provided   and Ive considered it very carefully. But while 
Mr C won his case to the extent that he was able to pursue the garage for the amount he claimed, this 
was because the garage didnt defend itself and the judgement was made in its absence.  So I dont 
think Mr C has a proven  judgement about whether the car was defective  when it was sold to him, as 
the evidence of the case wasnt  tested.  
For this chargeback to succeed Mr C would  have  had to show that his car was not of satisfactory  
quality. This is because the relevant law says this is what the supplier was obliged to provide.  I think  
the relevant chargeback rule here  under reason code 53 of the rules  in force at the time,  is condition 
4  which  is where  the cardholder disputes the quality  of merchandise or services received.  One of 
requirements of the condition is a detailed explanation of what  was not as described  and detailed  
information regarding  the quality of the merchandise or service. But the mere  fact that his second 
hand car had faults does  not by itself mean these conditions were  met. After  all a second hand car is 
not expected to be in perfect condition.
As Ive already said the merits of whether he car was of satisfactory  quality wasnt tested in court  and 
 without this detailed information about the quality  of the vehicle I think  the chargeback  would have 
been rejected. So, as I dont  believe the information or evidence Nationwide required existed,  I dont 
think the chargeback  would have been successful. Mr C needed to demonstrate that his claim 
regarding the quality of the car was persuasive  and  based on what Ive seen I dont believe it was. 
Ref: DRN57747347I take Mr Cs point that there seemed to be a dispute over the mileage  recorded  when he purchased 
the car and whether a full service ought to have been carried out before  he took possession  of the 
car. But it seems  these were  matters  that were in dispute,  I dont think these  matters,  by themselves 
show the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
For all these  reasons Id say on balance  that the chargeback would  have been unlikely to succeed.
was the claim brought within the relevant  time limits?
Nationwide initially rejected  Mr Cs claim because  it said hed brought it outside  of the time limits  
allowed. Namely 120 days after the original transaction. But Mr C says, under the relevant rules at the 
time, he was entitled to bring the claim  to Nationwide within 540 days  of the transaction processing 
date. And Mr C also said Nationwide  told him in the telephone conversation he had that it would  be 
processing his claim. Ive considered the regulations  from the time very carefully, and Ive listened  to 
the telephone conversation  Mr C had, but I dont agree  that Nationwide  misled Mr C about  processing 
his claim. 
From what Ive heard the adviser  made Mr C aware that his claim would be investigated  and it would  
let him know  if it required any further information. He was told that Nationwide would need to consider 
the evidence he was going to provide and it would let him know the outcome. Indeed the adviser 
made numerous references to the fact that it would  be difficult to do a chargeback claim because  the 
garage was no longer  in business. 
But Ive also noted that Nationwide  told Mr C  in its final response, that it couldnt pursue his claim  
as the transaction date was outside the 120 day timescale that the visa regulations  allow us to 
investigate transactions. But Im not sure Nationwide  has set out the chargeback rules correctly here 
or looked at all the relevant  chargeback rules. 
Having said that I dont believe  the timeline  which applies  here is material to whether Nationwide 
acted unfairly  in not proceeding with the chargeback because  as Ive previously explained, I dont 
think this chargeback would have succeeded.  
I dont think Mr Cs chargeback request would  have  been  successful. But even  if I thought such a 
request could  have been successful, I couldnt  fairly have asked Nationwide to pay Mr C the purchase 
price of the car if he continued to keep the car. That wouldnt have been fair or reasonable as it would 
have meant  Mr C would have benefited unfairly  from the claim, as he would   in effect  have ended 
up with a free car. 
However, that does not mean that I think Nationwide  did nothing wrong in relation to the chargeback. I 
do think Nationwides response  which was confusing regarding the timelines  caused Mr C some 
further distress on top of an already difficult  situation for him. It should have given Mr C accurate 
information about the chargeback rules. So, in those circumstances I think Nationwide  should  pay an 
additional £100 in compensation for the distress caused.  
Ive taken into account that Nationwide has already paid Mr C £100 for being  slow to respond to his 
request  and for sending a misleading  text message.  But Im satisfied an additional £100  is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused here by the failure to clearly explain the 
relevant timelines and correct reasons  for not pursing the chargeback claim.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im currently minded to tell Nationwide Building  Society to pay 
Mr C an additional £100 for distress and inconvenience.  I would like Nationwide to confirm  thats it 
paid the £100 its already offered.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5774734