K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Paypal (Europe) S.a.r.l.  et Cie, S.C.A  didnt refund him when he 
bought an item that wasnt as described.
background
Mr M bought  a mobile phone online in November 2017. It had been advertised  as being 
brand new.  But when it arrived, hes explained there was visible  wear  and tear, and it was a 
different colour  than advertised. Accordingly,  he raised this with PayPal under its buyer 
protection policy. However,  it closed his complaint after four days, with the explanation that 
the item wasnt significantly not as described.
Mr M subsequently  returned the phone to the seller, but didnt receive a refund  from either  
the seller, or from PayPal.  Hed like to be refunded  the £1,028.99 he has lost.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He thought  that PayPal had been 
wrong to close down its investigation  after four days, and said it should refund Mr M, adding  
8% simple  interest.
PayPal disagreed. It said it had declined Mr Ms claim correctly,  because it considered  that 
Mr M had removed the screen protection on the phone, and that hed had the phone for a 
certain period. It didnt consider that the scratches/condition of the phone  case  affected its 
functionality. It also noted that the seller had offered Mr M £50 to resolve  things, but hed not 
accepted this. Further, when Mr M appealed PayPals decision, he did so outside the 
proscribed ten day window, and hadnt  submitted information in a timely  manner. 
The complaints now been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ive considered whether the phone can reasonably be considered to have been  as 
described. While I accept  it was functional,  I dont think  many people would spend  
£1,028.99 purely  to have a functional phone. At this kind of price, reasonable expectations 
would be that the phone  was new  as advertised  and of the required  colour.
Mr M contacted the seller  as soon as he received the phone. So I think  it highly unlikely that 
it was damaged in this very short space of time.  And in any event, it wasnt  the required 
colour. Nor do I think it was unreasonable for Mr M to refuse  the £50 refund. After all, hed 
paid over £1,000.  So, Im satisfied the item wasnt as described.
Like the investigator, I can see no fair reason why Mr Ms claim was closed after four days.  
Although I accept that PayPal has discretion to turn down a claim, I agree with the 
investigator that here, it seems unfair. I cannot see why the claim was closed so abruptly.
So, although  Mr Ms appeal was outside the ten day window, I dont consider that to take 
away from the fact that his initial claim was dismissed as it was. Had PayPal  continued to 
investigate, which I think would have been  reasonable, I think it would  or should  have 
fairly given  Mr M the refund.
Ref: DRN52571712Mr M paid £1,028.99 for the phone, and hes returned it, so Im satisfied that this is the 
amount he should  be refunded. Interest should be added at the statutory rate for the time 
hes been without  these funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint.  I require  Paypal  
(Europe) S.a.r.l. et Cie, S.C.A to refund  Mr M £1,028.99, adding  8% simple interest a year, 
from 11 November 2017 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5257171