K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of company B, that HSBC UK Bank Plc froze  the company 
account for a month causing financial losses and reputational damage.
background
From December 2017 until June 2018  HSBC wrote to B stating that as part of its 
Safeguarding review  it needed to update its records about the company. It asked someone 
from the company  to make contact to agree  a time to complete that review.
The letter the bank  sent in February  2018 said that it would place restrictions  on the 
companys account  in April and close it in June if the review  remained outstanding.
The account  was suspended on 25 June and reactivated on 26 June following a complaint 
from Mr M. HSBC gave  Mr M another 10 days to provide the necessary information. But 
when he hadnt  done so, HSBC suspended  the account again on 10 July. It reactivated the 
account on 11 July having by then received  the requested information.
Mr M complained that as a result of the account being frozen for a month  the company had 
lost staff, suppliers,  deals,  and its credit rating had been adversely affected. Mr M said the 
company had also suffered reputational damage.
HSBC said that it had done nothing  wrong as it had written to B numerous times about  the 
review. It had also phoned Mr M at pre-arranged times to conduct the review, but received 
only a voicemail reply.
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response and he complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  consider that HSBC had done  anything wrong. In summary he said 
that HSBC had to meet  regulatory obligations and the Safeguarding review formed  part of 
that process.  He said he was satisfied that the bank had written  to Mr M many  times about 
the review and the consequences of non-compliance. And having looked  at the banks 
records he thought  it more likely than not that HSBC had phoned Mr M at the pre-arranged 
times, but received only an answerphone message.
He said that although Mr M said the account  had been  frozen  for a month,  it would appear  
from the evidence  to have been  at most four days.  And although Mr M had referred to losses 
incurred he had not provided  any supporting evidence of these.
In conclusion the investigator said he didnt  think that HSBC had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in suspending the account  when it didnt receive the information it had 
requested.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He re-emphasised  the points hed 
made previously and complained about  HSBCs reputation more broadly.  He said he had 
made numerous phone calls to the bank in response to its letters and didnt believe that 
HSBC had phoned him as it claimed  to have done. He also said that HSBCs responses to 
his complaint had been inconsistent,  particularly with respect  to the various staff members  
the bank said had been involved.
Ref: DRN57283832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and wider circumstances.
All banks  are required to meet certain regulatory  requirements and they should ensure  that 
the information they hold on their customers is accurate and up to date. Banks  will have their 
own procedures for reviewing and updating  their records, and HSBC  uses, amongst  other  
things, Safeguarding  reviews.
HSBC decided, as it was entitled to do, that it wanted to undertake such a review of the 
information it held about B. And so it wrote a number of letters  to B over a period of some six 
months explaining what B needed to do and setting out the consequences of not doing  so.
From the information I have seen I am satisfied that HSBC sent these letters, which  were  
clear and comprehensive in explaining  the banks position.
From the banks evidence  it appears that Mr M arranged  two dates  8 June and 18 June  
when he would be available  on the phone to conduct the required review.  The banks 
records state that it rang at these times and received answerphone messages in Spanish. 
Mr M disputes this saying that he didnt receive any calls from HSBC,  nor does his telephone  
log record any missed calls from the bank.  Mr M says that he rang HSBC  a number of times  
with the intention of completing the review,  but for various reasons the bank was always  
unable to do so at the time, or the call was disconnected.
As I havent  been  directly involved with the events described I cannot  know definitively what  
happened here and so I reach my view on what I consider most likely to have happened. 
And having done so it seems to me more probable than not that HSBC did attempt to ring Mr 
M and received  a Spanish answerphone  message. In saying this I note that our investigator 
also phoned Mr M and the response  was a Spanish  voicemail.
Having not received the information  it required  HSBC froze Bs account on 25 June. Mr M 
contacted the bank  immediately to complain. HSBC said it would give him a further 10 days  
to provide the necessary  documentation and reactivated the account on 26 June. But when 
Mr M hadnt met the 10 day limit, HSBC froze the account once more  on 10 July. Again this 
was only for a day as by then Mr M had supplied the required information.
Having considered all of the evidence  Im afraid that I cant reasonably conclude that HSBC 
has done anything  wrong here. It was entitled to undertake a Safeguarding review on B and 
it wrote  many letters to the company explaining  what was needed. When Mr M didnt supply 
that information by the deadline, HSBC froze the companys account  but didnt close it  
and extended  the deadline. Mr M missed that deadline by a day and so the account was 
once again frozen,  but unfrozen the following day. In taking these actions Im not persuaded 
that HSBC acted either unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN57283833Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5728383