K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Erudio Student Loans  Limited  refused  to defer  repayment  of his student  
loans.
background
In 2015 Mr F made his annual application  to defer  his student loans for another year.  Erudio 
declined, because Mr F had provided  only one pay slip and Erudio wanted three. His 
account went into arrears and Erudio issued default  notices. Mr F applied again,  with the 
same result. In 2017 Mr F complained to our Service.  He insisted that he had done enough 
to satisfy the requirements  for deferment.
Erudio maintained that three pay slips were required, and that it had made  this clear to Mr F. 
It says Mr F can still apply  for a deferment if he provides the required evidence,  and the 
deferment would be backdated by three months but no longer.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Mr Fs complaint about events in 
2015 had been brought  more than six months after Erudio had given him its final response,  
which was too late under our time limits, and so that matter was out of our jurisdiction. He 
considered Erudios refusal of the later applications,  but concluded that Erudio had done  
nothing wrong.
Mr F did not accept that opinion. He said he had not received Erudios final response,  so the 
2015 matter should be considered. He insisted that he had always  been entitled to 
deferment, and that all he was required to do was to provide one pay slip and to forecast his 
likely earnings over the subsequent two months.  Erudio  was not entitled to ask for three pay 
slips, and he considered this to be harassment. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is bound by rules made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. These rules include some time limits on when a complaint can be brought.  They  
say that we do not have jurisdiction to consider a complaint  if it is brought to us more than 
six months after the respondent sent the complainant its written final response to the 
complaint. We can only consider a late complaint if the delay is the result of exceptional 
circumstances, or if the respondent consents. Erudio has not consented.
Mr F says he did not receive  Erudios  final response, but under the rules the six months  runs 
from when it was sent. So I have considered whether not receiving it might amount to 
exceptional circumstances.  It is correctly addressed, but there is no evidence to contradict 
Mr Fs assertion that he did not receive  it, and so I will give him the benefit of the doubt and 
assume that it was lost in the post. I will therefore consider what happened in 2015.
Before I do that, I will mention that Mr Fs account  was in arrears in 2014. He was sent 
notices of arrears in August and November 2014, which Ive seen. He was therefore aware 
of the consequences of not having his student  loans deferred.
Ref: DRN53908712Mr F then managed to have his loans deferred  again until October 2015. In August of that 
year, Erudio sent him a deferment application form to fill in and send back  if he wanted  to 
defer his loans for another  year. The covering  letter which accompanied the form said that a 
How to Guide was also enclosed, and encouraged Mr F to read it, because  it set out what  
supporting evidence he needed  to provide.  Mr F says he did not receive the guide. Even if 
I accept that, I dont think its likely that he never received it with any of the other forms 
Erudio sent him subsequently. I think its more likely than not that he did receive the guide 
with most of the forms that were  sent to him. But I will still consider what happened in 2015 
on the assumption that he either  did not receive,  or at least  did not read,  the guide in 2015. 
(I will come back to what the guide  says later.)
One of the sections of the form is headed  Earnings from Employment. This begins with four 
sentences of instructions. The fourth  sentence reads as follows:
If you don't know the annual income, you should base this information  on an 
average of your income for this month, and what you predict  for the next two 
months.
Mr F relies on this sentence as proof  that Erudio was only entitled to receive one pay slip, 
and that one was enough. He says that as he sent one pay slip, Erudio  should  have granted 
his application  to defer.
That is all very well, but that is not all the form says. The last page  contains a declaration for 
the applicant to sign. It contains  this sentence:
I understand  that Erudio Student Loans has the right to ask me for more  information  
and/or check  the information  I have provided is true.
So I do not agree that the sentence I quoted earlier means that Mr F only had to provide one 
pay slip and that Erudio  was not entitled  to ask for more evidence.
In fact, Erudio wanted three payslips, one for each of the three  months immediately 
preceding the application.  The How to Guide makes this quite clear. However, just in case  
this was not included with the 2015  form, I will consider where that leaves  Mr F and Erudio.
Supposing that Erudio did not tell Mr F in August 2015 that three payslips were required, and 
assuming (since I have  not seen evidence to the contrary) that only one payslip had been 
required in previous years, I think it would have been reasonable of Mr F to only send one 
pay slip with his application form. He would not have known better. But once Erudio asked 
him to send  more  evidence, which  it was entitled  to do, it was Mr Fs responsibility  to send it. 
He knew Erudio was entitled to ask for more  evidence, because  the form made that clear. 
And when  Erudio did not receive the pay slips it had asked  for, it was entitled to decline his 
application.
I dont know when Erudio  first asked Mr F for three pay slips. It sent him a new application 
form in March 2016, and I presume that a copy of the How to Guide was included  with it. But 
in case that was the first time three  payslips were  requested, then I would have considered 
whether Erudio should have backdated Mr Fs deferment to October 2015 (even though  that 
is longer than the usual maximum of three months  for backdating a deferment), if Mr F had 
then provided three pay slips. But he did not.
I have seen a chain of emails  between Mr F and Erudio, dated  April and May 2016. In these 
emails, Erudio repeatedly  made it very clear that three  pay slips were needed, and that the 
Ref: DRN53908713application would not be granted without them. Mr F steadfastly refused to provide them, and 
insisted that one was enough.  He also demanded that Erudio only communicate with him by 
email, and demanded that Erudio pay him £100 for every letter it sent him by post. He also 
threatened to take Erudio to court if it did not pay him, and he dared Erudio to take him to 
court to enforce the arrears, which he insisted he did not owe. The tone of Mr Fs emails  
could be described  as petulant.
It is very clear that Mr F had not the slightest intention of co-operating  with Erudio; quite the 
opposite. So there is no basis on which I could now direct Erudio to backdate Mr Fs 
deferment by more than three months  from whenever it grants him a deferment.
In May 2016  Erudio  sent Mr F a default  notice in respect  of the arrears. It continued to send 
him arrears notices. It sent another default notice  in August 2017. It was entitled to do that, 
because the arrears had not been  paid, and a valid deferment application had not been sent. 
Even when  Mr F finally relented and did send in three pay slips for consecutive months, they 
were not for the most recent three months  but related to an earlier  period.  He has not yet 
submitted a proper  application with the evidence required. So Erudio has not deferred his 
loans, nor can it do so.
For me to have upheld  this complaint,  it would  not have been enough for me to be satisfied 
that Mr F was indeed eligible to have his loans deferred when he applied.  I would also have 
to be satisfied that he sent in sufficient evidence with his application. To date, this has not 
happened. I cannot emphasize enough how important it is that Mr F provides all of the 
evidence Erudio asks him for  including his three  most recent payslips at the time he makes  
his application.  If he does not do that, then Erudio might terminate his loan agreements,  and 
if that happens then he will permanently lose the right to defer his loans. This would also be 
recorded on his credit file for six years, making  it harder for him to obtain credit  in future.
For completeness, I will add that the law requires arrears notices and default notices (and 
termination notices) to be sent as hard copies in the post, not by email.  So Erudio was not 
deliberately being difficult when it sent them in the post, it was just complying with its legal 
obligations. It wasnt obliged to pay Mr F £100  each  time it did that.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  But if we dont hear from him then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5390871