K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros, wont apy further loss 
of rent in respect of his let property insurance claim for subsidence.
background
The claim dates back to 2015. Essentially it was a claim  complicated  by a number of factors,  
including tree removal. Eventually  it was decided that underpinning was necessary. Mr A 
brought a previous complaint to this service about  the delay in getting  the repairs  started. 
That matter  was dealt  with by a final decision by an ombudsman at this service. He 
essentially said that Ocaso was mainly to blame for the delays in getting the repairs started.  
In respect of loss of rent, as one years rent was being paid under the policy terms, he didnt 
give require that any further loss of rent be paid at that time. At that point the repairs hadnt  
yet got under way. However  he did say that Ocaso should consider paying  loss of rent until 
the matter is resolved.
Within two months of receiving that recommendation within the final decision Ocaso wrote to 
Mr A and told him it wouldnt pay any further loss of rent. It considered that this would be 
giving Mr A benefit which the policy  didnt  provide for. Mr A made  a further complaint to this 
service. However it was prepared to (and did) pay for the remaining tenant to move  the 
contents of their flat from the first floor to the ground  floor, while work was carried out 
upstairs, and then back again. This was to stop the tenant having to move out, thereby 
preventing any further rent being  lost.
The underpinning repairs were essentially completed by May 2020. Ocaso says the repairs 
would have been completed  sooner but for delays  in carrying out private work for Mr A. He 
denies that the private work caused any delays and says the contractors made 
unreasonable demands for payments up front. I believe there are still further repairs  
outstanding which havent been able to be carried out.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Ocaso  should  pay further loss of 
rent for twelve months together with Mr As council tax payment from October 2017 until 
March 2020. I further said it should pay £200 compensation.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision.
Ocaso didnt accept it. It pointed out that subsidence claims do take a long time. It 
appreciated the claim had been prolonged but believed that wasnt  its fault. It didnt think it 
should be liable to pay rent beyond the amount allowed  for in the policy. It was prepared to 
pay council tax but only for the twelve months allowed for by the policy.  In light of this it didnt 
consider it should  have  to pay further compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr A made  his complaint  that Ocaso  wasnt  paying any further  loss of rent in March 2019,  
following it issuing a final response in February 2019. This was before the repairs got 
underway. I propose to consider loss of rent in the context of the ombudsmans decision 
Ref: DRN54894192made in December 2018, but I cant enforce that decision. I also cant take into account 
activity which occurred  after Ocasos final response  was issued.
In December 2018 the ombudsman said:
I am informed though  that the rent losses are only covered for 12 months, and this period is
ending soon. I dont  think it is fair in these circumstances for the insurer  to stop payment, as 
I have indicated above I think the delays  are mainly their fault.  So, whilst I cant  make a
decision directing  how future claims are dealt with, the insurer  should consider  continuing  to
pay lost rent until this matter is resolved.  If they do not Mr A is able to bring  a further
complaint to us concerning whether the ceasing  of payment after 12 months is fair.
Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros should settle the buildings claim by starting
work on the repairs as soon as possible. The actual works may need to be agreed but they
should ensure  form proposals are made no longer than two months from the acceptance of
this decision in view of the time they have already had to arrange this. They  should  also pay
Mr A £500  compensation, and consider paying  lost rent until the matter  is resolved.
I think the proposals for repair  did get underway  in the time period set by my colleague.  
Certainly monitoring of the property continued  following the decision and the work was put 
out to tender  by the end of February 2019.  If Mr A thinks Ocaso hasnt  complied with the 
decision in this respect then his remedy  would  be to take action against Ocaso for failing to 
carry out the decision. If he is alleging further  delays in the course of those repairs,  after the 
date of Ocasos final response in February  2019 to date, then he should  make a further 
complaint to Ocaso.
The ombudsman didnt  say that further  rent should  be paid  he said that Ocaso should 
consider it. That allows me to make  a further decision about the outcome of that 
consideration. Ocaso has taken the view that it should pay no further rent on the claim as the 
policy doesnt allow for it and it has paid certain  sums to allow the other tenant to move.  
Whilst its free to decide not to pay further  rent under the policy,  I dont think its reasons for 
doing so were what the ombudsman had in mind.  He specifically addressed  the fact that any 
such payment would be beyond the policy terms. He didnt award future  rent since  clearly  he 
didnt know how the claim would continue.
I know that at least the structural  repairs continued  until May 2020.  Ocaso  has said that 
these works  would have  been completed  by 20 March  2020 had it not been  for Mr A having 
private works done. I understand that Mr A denies that he was responsible  for the private 
work delaying the main  repairs. But whatever the rights and wrongs of any dispute  he had 
with the contractors, they were carrying out private work for him which  Ocaso wasnt  
responsible for. I think it fair to, at this point, given what I can consider, take Ocaso at tis 
word and work to a completion date of the end of March 2020. But I havent considered 
whether Ocaso  handled the repairs reasonably during that period which caused completion 
of the repairs  to be delayed between February 2019  and March  2020.
The arguments for not paying beyond the 12 months  allowed in the policy  centre on the fact 
that subsidence work frequently does take more  than 12 months,  and many insurers  will 
want to cap their loss. Although generally speaking a property shouldnt be uninhabitable  for 
the whole  duration  of works. The previous ombudsman said that the delays were  mainly 
Ocasos fault. Had it not delayed, the loss of rent payment would have been made during the 
period when active repairs were underway.   Clearly then Ocasos  failure to handle  the claim 
properly in the period before my colleague made his decision, meant that Mr A has 
Ref: DRN54894193continued to suffer a loss which he otherwise wouldnt have done  when the cover  available 
under the policy  expired. That is not fair. 
proposed settlement
Ocaso has confirmed  that the cover under the policy ended  in November 2018. I think Ocaso  
should pay Mr As continuing  loss of rent from November  2018 for a further year. This will 
mean hes not lost any policy entitlement on account of the policy benefit having  been 
previously exhausted  during  an earlier  period of delay. Then, if Mr A thinks Ocaso caused 
further delays  during  the repairs he could complain to Ocaso  in that respect as there  is no 
limit to his entitlement for loss caused by Ocasos failings.  To the 12 months of lost rent I am 
awarding here Ocaso should add simple  interest* at 8% per year from the date each rent 
payment should  have  been received until it reimburses Mr A.
As for the council tax, Mr A has clearly set the details of that out to Ocaso. This is another  
loss Mr A has suffered  due to Ocasos earlier delays with the claim but it wasnt  part of the 
complaint that my colleague  considered. As I understand it Mr A has had to pay council tax 
since October 2017 when the tenant  moved out. As far as I know Ocaso hasnt reimbursed 
Mr A for this cost incurred. I think it should  pay any outstanding council  tax for the period 
from October 2017 until March 2020, and pay simple interest* at 8% per year from the date 
each payment was paid by Mr A until it reimburses  Mr A. I understand Mr A has received a 
summons for non-payment, I should  make it clear that any payment to be made  by Ocaso  
shouldnt include any costs on the summons.
I think the issue over the outstanding rent and council tax has caused Mr A further upset and 
aggravation. I propose to require Ocaso to pay him £200  compensation. 
As far as Ocasos arguments are concerned I should again point out that the previous 
ombudsmans decision, by which it is bound, specifically found that the delays in starting the 
work were mainly Ocasos  fault. So I cant go back over this and reconsider its arguments 
that it felt it wasnt to blame.  I think Ive clearly set out why Ocaso should pay further loss of 
rent, and council tax, in my provisional findings  as set out above. And I still think it should  
pay £200 compensation. My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
pay Mr As loss of rent from November 2018 for a further twelve  months.  It should  add 
simple interest* at 8% per year from the date each rent payment should have been 
received until it reimburses  Mr A.
pay Mr As council  tax for the same property  for the period from October  2017  until 
March 2020, and pay simple interest* at 8% per year from the date each payment was 
paid by Mr A until it reimburses  Mr A. This excludes any costs on a summons Mr A may 
have had to pay.
pay Mr A £200 compensation. 
*Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros is required  by HM Revenue and Customs  
to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should  Mr A request it, Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Ref: DRN54894194Seguros y Reaseguros  should provide him with a certificate showing how much  tax has 
been taken off so that, if appropriate,  he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN5489419