K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. The complaint is brought  on her behalf  by a claims  management company.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in April 1997. The policy was taken 
out during a meeting  when Miss M was applying for a secured loan. The loan was to enable  
her to buy her home, which had previously been in joint names,  and also to fund some home 
improvements. The policy provided  her with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Miss M didnt agree. 
Her representative said, on her behalf  and in summary, that:
Miss M says she was specifically advised  she had to take out the PPI with the mortgage 
and assumed this was standard  practice.
She didnt  need the PPI because she wouldve received generous  sick pay from her 
employer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint for the following reasons:
Miss M says she was told she had to take the PPI for her mortgage  application to be 
successful. And I accept thats possible.  But its also possible Miss M did want the PPI but 
cant now remember agreeing to it given the time thats passed. Ive considered  the 
paperwork that was completed at the time. The mortgage application included  a separate  
section headed  Applying for TSB MortgageSure  and included equally clear options  to 
accept or decline the PPI. The Yes box has been ticked, showing that Miss M had 
confirmed she wanted it. So, after careful  consideration, I think  it more likely than not that 
Lloyds made  Miss M aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it.
The bank advised Miss M to take out the policy and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  for 
her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Miss M was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances  and the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN51259982Miss M told us she wouldve received  six months  full pay followed by six months  half 
pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. But the 
mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment  and Miss Ms home was at 
risk if she didnt keep  up with the repayments.  The PPI would have paid out for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful claim for accident or sickness and would also 
have covered her if shed  become unemployed.  So I think  the PPI couldve been  a 
useful benefit,  in addition to her existing arrangements.
Miss M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits  such 
as those affecting  self-employed people or people  with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely she needed 
better advice  or information  about the policys exclusions  and limitations.
The cost of the policy  was set out in the mortgage offer document.  So Miss M wouldve 
been aware that it would  cost her £10.31 each month  before she went  ahead with it.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Miss M would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been  provided  to her  overall,  I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125998