K820x#14Complaint
Mr R is unhappy about his two private medical insurance policies with AXA PPP Healthcare  
Limited (AXA). He says he was mis-sold the policy in 2016  and also has concerns  with the 
service hes received during subsequent communication.
He raised concerns in 2016 and 2018. AXA has agreed that both could be looked  at under 
this one complaint.
Background
Mr R had a private medical  insurance  policy through his employer. As he was changing jobs, 
he wanted to change the policy from his employer to his own personal  policy  from May 2016.  
The following  is a brief timeline of what happened:
On 24 March 2016, Mr R contacted  AXA to inform it that he wanted  to continue with 
the same  cover, and which also included his pre-existing  conditions.  AXA informed 
him that he would  be covered;
Between 26 March  and 27 April, Mr R had medical tests  and was referred to a 
gastroenterologist;
Mr R called AXA on 28 April regarding the proposed transfer. The AXA advisor 
incorrectly interpreted and then incorrectly recorded an underwriting  question  which  
meant Mr R accepted a quotation for the Health for You policy  (with  a reduced 
hospital list), for a monthly premium  of £80.45 and a 70% no claims discount. The 
question the advisor asked  Mr R was:
Have  you or anyone else to be insured under the plan had treatment  in 
hospital or consulted  a specialist in the last 12 months (this applies whether 
the treatment was received privately or under the National Health Service)?
The advisor incorrectly recorded this question as no instead of yes (which is what  
Mr R had said)  in the call. He said although he had nothing planned, there  was a 
likely chance  that he would need further  investigations;
In May 2016, Mr R made a claim for referral to a gastroenterologist. At this point, 
AXA realised the underwriting  error  that was made by the advisor  on the call of 
28 April 2016. It declined  to provide  cover  on the basis of the policy  quotation 
proposed on that date;
Mr R and AXA discussed  the policy premium in May/June  2016.  Mr R changed his 
cover to the Personal Health policy which had greater benefits.  Although  Mr R was 
unhappy, he paid the increased premium so AXA could  put his claim through.  AXA 
offered two months free cover  because of its error;
On 7 June 2016,  AXA informed Mr R the premium for the Personal Health policy 
was £239.26.  Had the error not happened, the premium would have been £182.16;
AXA sent Mr R a final response in June 2016.  It apologised for the error  made  in 
incorrectly recording the underwriting  question.  It also explained had the error not 
happened, the correct  premium  for the policy would  have been £182.16 on the 
Health for You policy. Mr R decided to move his policy  to the Personal Health one 
and so his premium would be £239.26. AXA offered to waive in total three  months 
premiums, providing  cover for free;
On 28 June 2016, AXA offered to provide cover which would have cost £239.26 and 
instead charged Mr R £80.45  per month  until renewal of the policy in April 2017.  AXA 
Ref: DRN55182652informed Mr R that at renewal in April 2017,  the policy cost would revert back  to 
£239.26 per month;
Between June  2016 and December 2016,  Mr R was diagnosed with cancer and went 
through surgery and chemotherapy; 
In April 2017, Mr R renewed  his policy for 12 months which  cost £283.61 per month;
In April 2018, Mr R renewed  his policy for 12 months at a cost of £445.92 per month;
Mr R was in a recovery  period for a year and a half following surgery  and various 
other treatments he received;
Mr R complained to AXA in June 2018  regarding the error made by the advisor in 
May 2016. He also raised further issues  failure  to receive  the terms and conditions 
of his policies,  incorrect advice given regarding the no claims discount, claims 
invoices not being  attached to the correct policies. He further said had the advisor not 
completed the question incorrectly  in 2016,  Mr R would have been able to take out a 
policy with another  provider  at a better cost;
On 4 July 2018, AXA provided its final response which  addressed his issues.  AXA 
also made a payment  for distress  and inconvenience of £1,250  to Mr R in regard to 
the 2016 complaint and £150 in regard to the 2018 one.
Complaint in 2016
Mr R made  a complaint  in 2016  as explained  in the timeline above.
In summary,  he said he was mis-sold the policy based on the advisor incorrectly completing 
one of the underwriting questions he was asked. 
Mr R said he would  like to be returned to the position he would have been in. That is, as if 
the question had been recorded correctly and as if he had been quoted  the correct  premium. 
He says as he was mis-sold the policy in 2016, he would like AXA to honour the original 
premium quoted for as long hes insured with it.
He also says he took the decision  to take out the policy  based  on the information given by 
the advisor. Had he been quoted the correct premium (and the advisor had input the answer 
to that question correctly), he would then have had the opportunity to look elsewhere. He 
would have potentially  taken out a policy with an alternative provider under the same terms 
and conditions, but with a lower premium of £96.53. 
The premium quoted by the advisor  (using the incorrectly  answered  question) was £80.45. 
And the actual premium  (had the correct answer been recorded)  would  have been  £182.16  
on the same  level of cover. However,  over telephone conversations between AXA and Mr R, 
he requested an increased level of cover,  which meant that the premium wouldve been  
£239.26 monthly. 
AXA looked  into what happened and accepted an error was made.  It offered the following to 
put things right:
To waive three months premiums as a gesture  of goodwill (£80.45  x 3);
To honour the original premium quoted by the advisor at £80.45 but explained  to 
Mr R that the premium would revert  back to £239.26  at renewal of the policy  after the 
12 months;
Paid Mr R a total of £1,400 for the distress  and inconvenience caused to him.
Ref: DRN55182653AXA didnt agree that Mr R would have  been able to take out a policy on a like for like 
basis. The evidence Mr R had provided of this, wasnt  enough to suggest the alternative 
provider would have  accepted him on the same  terms and conditions. 
Complaint in 2018
Mr R had three separate complaint points on the second policy.  Ive summarised these 
below.
Incorrect advice  on how claims would affect  the No Claim Discount (NCD). 
Mr R says as a result of the incorrect advice, he had to change  his medical appointments so 
that his NCD would not be affected  for the following year. He said he had to make those 
changes last minute and affected the time off hed planned to take that year.
AXA said it accepted  the advisor gave Mr R incorrect advice in a call on 20 October 2017 
and on 10 January 2018. It therefore  agreed  to manually adjust his NCD for the 2020 
renewal by ensuring that seven of the claims Mr R made  between  February 2017 and May 
2018 wouldnt affect his NCD upon  renewal.
Delay in providing  policy  documents. 
Mr R says he had to make multiple requests for policy documents on both his personal 
policy and the employer policy. He says his requests  were ignored and he only received the 
policy documents in June  2018. He wanted to give himself at least  five months  to review 
both his policies  before the policy was due for renewal on 28 April 2018. The delay in 
sending those documents meant  he had less time for review and AXA refused to extend the 
time for him to be able to review the policy terms and conditions.
AXA said its records show that the policy documents had been  sent to Mr R on a number of 
occasions and there  was a call where  the advisor assisted him in logging  into the on-line 
portal where  his policy document was located  for him to review. AXA also says theres a call 
in  November 2017 which confirms Mr R was reviewing the NCD section of the policy and 
records also confirm the policy  document was sent to Mr R in December 2018. 
AXA reviewed Mr Rs complaint on this point and accepted  there might have been  a delay in 
not responding to Mr Rs query in February  2018. It therefore agreed to extend the cooling 
off period for another 28 days.  This gave him until 31 July 2018 to make any changes.
 
Attaching medical invoices to the wrong policy on multiple occasions.
Mr R says AXA didnt attach medical invoices to the right policies despite  the fact he made it 
aware of the errors and it subsequently reassured  him it wouldnt  happen  again.  This caused 
him distress as he thought his cancer treatments wouldnt be paid and an excess was being 
requested. 
AXA said consultants werent using the correct policy references which had caused 
confusion with invoices  being attached to the relevant policy. However, it accepted that it 
could have done more to ensure the issues didnt happen on multiple occasions. 
Mr R referred  the complaint to this service.  Our investigator looked into it and said she 
thought the fact that AXA waived three months  premiums, reduced the premium for the first 
year of the policy and made an offer of £1,400 AXA for the errors that happened, was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN55182654Mr R didnt agree with the investigators assessment and has asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that both parties have provided substantial information  in relation to this 
complaint. Id like to reassure them that I have reviewed everything.  My decision however 
wont cover  each and every point in detail but will provide a response to those that are 
relevant to this complaint. 
Id like to address Mr Rs comment that The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) should  be considered on this complaint. I appreciate  
Mr R feels that CIDRA is relevant, but the act says the consumers duty is to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. I cant see that Mr R made a misrepresentation or that 
he failed to disclose  information to AXA. The issue on this complaint is that the advisor took 
the information Mr R provided and recorded the answer  to the question incorrectly. I 
therefore dont  agree that CIDRA is relevant on this complaint.  
Complaint in 2016
Its not in dispute  that AXA made  an error in answering one of the underwriting questions 
incorrectly. Its accepted  by both parties that the error was made. Our approach here would 
be to put Mr R back in the position as if the error  hadnt been made. That is, as if the answer 
to the question had been recorded correctly by the advisor. So this would mean asking Mr R 
to pay the original monthly premium and also asking AXA to pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R if we thought that was fair in the circumstances. 
I can see that AXA accepted it needed  to put right the error that was made. It apologised and 
agreed to honour  the lower monthly  premium of £80.45 that was quoted to Mr R for the 
remainder of that policy year. It said at renewal, the premium would revert back  to the actual 
monthly premium (based  on the correct answer  to the underwriting  question).  AXA also 
waived three  months premiums and so Mr R didnt make any payment for three  months. 
And, in terms of compensation, AXA paid Mr R £150  and then a further £1,250.  
Bearing in mind whats happened, the key points I need to decide on this case are whether:
AXA put Mr R back in the position as if the error hadnt happened  thats  in line with 
our approach; and
The offer of £150 plus £1,250  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Mr R has said but for AXAs error,  he would  have known  the actual cost of the policy  from 
the outset. He wouldnt have necessarily agreed to take out the policy  at that actual cost and 
he also wouldve had the opportunity to take out medical insurance at a cheaper rate with 
another provider.  Hes provided  an email exchange  as evidence that he wouldve been  able 
to take that opportunity. Ive considered this but this email isnt specific  enough. It doesnt 
give any information about the type of cover, the level of cover or what, if any, disclosures  
Mr R had made about his health condition. Its therefore not enough evidence  for me to be 
persuaded that he could have taken out a medical  insurance policy  on a like for like basis 
with another provider. 
Ref: DRN55182655I have every empathy  for what Mr R was going through  at the time. He was undergoing 
significant treatment  in relation to his cancer and, at times,  I appreciate this wouldve been  
very traumatic for him. Having to then deal with the issues  of the error made on his policy  
and having to submit  claims at the same  time,  wouldve  been  very stressful for him too. But 
Ive taken all of this into account and I think the offer made  by AXA to waive  three months  
premiums, reducing the premium for the first policy year and offering £1,250 in recognition of 
its failings is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I dont think AXA 
needs to do anything further  on this complaint.
Complaint in 2018
Incorrect advice  on how claims would affect  the No Claim Discount (NCD). 
Ive reviewed what happened and can see AXA accepted that incorrect  advice was given to 
Mr R. AXA therefore agreed  to manually adjust his NCD as a result and ensured seven of 
the claims Mr R made between February 2017  and May 2018  didnt affect  Mr Rs NCD upon 
renewal. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Delay in providing  policy  documents. 
I appreciate Mr R had issues with making  requests  for policy  documents on both his 
personal policy and employer policy and this caused  delays and gave him less time to 
review before renewal. Whilst AXA said it had sent Mr R the policy  documents, it accepted  
there was a delay  in not responding to Mr Rs query in February  2018. It therefore  agreed to 
extend the cooling off period for another 28 days.  Im satisfied that this was a reasonable 
approach to putting this delay right for Mr R. 
Attaching medical invoices to the wrong policy on multiple occasions.
Ive looked at what happened on this complaint  point. AXA has accepted  advisors werent 
using correct policy references and not matching  the correct  invoice to the correct policy. 
This not only caused confusion but added to Mr Rs stress - he was being asked to pay for 
the invoices which werent correctly administered  by AXA.
Having reviewed what AXA did, Im satisfied it ensured that feedback was given to the 
appropriate areas and ensured  this didnt happen  again. 
Conclusion
Ive reviewed everything thats happened  and looked at all the available  evidence  with 
regards to both the complaint in 2016  and 2018. Having  done so, I summarise  below what  
AXA did in relation to each of the two complaints.  
For the complaint  in 2016, AXA accepted its error  and offered Mr R:
Waiver of three months premiums;
Reduction of premium  which honoured the original (lower and incorrect)  rate for the 
remainder of that policy year; and
Compensation of £1,250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr R.
For the complaint  in 2018:
Seven  of the claims were discounted  when  AXA calculated the NCD for the 2020 
renewal;
Ref: DRN55182656The cooling off period was extended for Mr Rs 2018 renewal; and
AXA made a payment  of £150  for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr R.
Mr R went through a very difficult  period and I can understand why he believes what  AXA did 
wasnt enough. But overall, in all the circumstances  of this complaint,  I dont  think  AXA 
needs to do anything further.  AXA has put Mr R in the position he would  have been  had the 
errors not happened. Im satisfied this is in line with our approach. I also think the £1,400 
compensation AXA has paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think the total offer of £1,400  AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
has made to Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. It doesnt 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5518265