K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained about esure  Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes  their agents.
background
Mrs P said she first took out car insurance  with esure in 2011 through a broker.  She said she 
was retired and she described herself as a housewife.
In 2018, she noticed that her insurance  documents with esure  since  2011 described her 
cover as use for social, domestic and pleasure  purposes including commuting to and from a 
permanent place of work.  Use by the Policyholder in person in connection  with his or her 
business or profession. Mrs Ps occupation  on the policy documentation was displayed as 
housewife. Mrs P said esure  should  therefore have  known she wouldnt need business  or 
profession use.
Mrs P was concerned that she had unnecessarily paid more  for her insurance  than she 
should have because of the business or profession cover in her policies. She said when 
she raised this with the broker they told her she was charged more because  of the business 
use cover  she had.
Mrs P complained to esure. But esure said they didnt do anything  wrong. They said when  
taking out the policy  it was Mrs Ps responsibility  to give all the correct information  and to 
select the appropriate cover she needed.  Mrs P said she had never chosen cover  with 
business or profession use. Mrs P brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She said that as Mrs P was retired  she didnt  use her car for 
business purposes which meant esure  had no such risk to cover.  She suggested esure  
should refund the additional premium  charged  for business use from 2011.
Another one of our investigators took over the file from the first investigator.  esure looked 
into the matter again.  They said that although  Mrs P did have business use cover  since 
2011, she wasnt charged anything extra for that until 2017. esure said 2017  was the only 
year they rated (charged for) business use. They said the additional charge was £6.29 
which they were happy to refund. As Mrs P didnt  think that was fair, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 28 May 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
The policy was first taken  out in 2011  on a comparison website and through a broker.  
I understand that given how long ago that was the information about what  Mrs P was 
asked during the application process and what cover she chose is no longer 
available. But Mrs P is adamant that she would never have chosen the business 
cover which was of no use for her as she was retired.
Mrs P feels  she was charged more because  of the business use allowed by her 
cover. But esure have  shown us evidence that other  than in 2017 they didnt charge 
Ref: DRN54386302Mrs P any more.  I should say that some insurers occasionally  provide certain usage 
under a policy without  charging more for it. And this is one such  case. Until 2017 
esure provided business cover at no extra charge.
Mrs P doesnt agree  that esure only charged  her £6.29 extra  in 2017 when they rated  
business use that year. She said when  she realised the business  use cover and 
asked that to be removed in 2018, her policy was amended and her premium 
reduced by £66.90. But esure said that entire  reduction didnt account for the removal 
of the business use. esure  said Mrs P had removed her excess protection add-on 
that reduced the premium by £43.93. They then applied a retentions  discount which  
reduced the premium  further by 10%. So, the removal of the business use only led to 
a small reduction in the premium.
Mrs P doesnt accept what esure have said and she believes she was charged extra 
for every year since 2011. And, she has questioned why esure didnt  tell her when 
she first made her complaint that she wasnt charged extra (other  than in 2017). 
Mrs P first complained to esure  sometime before mid-2018. At that time esures 
response to her complaint was that she had chosen the cover she had. But I agree 
with Mrs P. Had they explained to her then that, other than a small amount  in 2017, 
she hadnt been charged anything extra for the business use cover I think  she could 
have been saved a lot of trouble.
Once Mrs P brought her complaint to our service, she had to obtain evidence,  such 
as tax returns to prove she wasnt working or running a business, thereby satisfying 
us that she had no need for business  use of her car. Im aware it wasnt  easy for Mrs 
P to obtain that evidence given the matter goes back  to 2011. Im also aware that 
Mrs P and her husband have spent a considerable amount of time gathering  other 
evidence; contacting the broker  and esure;  corresponding with our service; and 
drafting emails and letters. All of which has not only taken  up a lot of time and effort 
but has also caused Mrs P distress  and inconvenience. And its now almost two 
years since  Mrs P raised  her concerns  yet this complaint hasnt  been  resolved. I think 
if esure had dealt with the complaint better  and explained things to Mrs P earlier most 
of this could have been avoided. Im therefore  intending to uphold  this complaint. And 
to address the impact of the distress and inconvenience to Mrs P, I intend  to require 
esure to pay her £300 compensation.
 
And as esure have  agreed, they should refund her the £6.29  that was charged for the 
business use in her 2017 policy.  They should add simple interest to the amount at a 
rate of 8% a year from when she asked  for a refund until payment is made.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs P didnt make any 
comments. 
esure said my suggested compensation of £300  was disproportionate given the refund in 
question was £6.29. esure said compensation  of £100 was more  appropriate  in the 
circumstances.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But Id like to respond to esures  comments as follows.
Ref: DRN54386303I think to focus on the amount of the refund Mrs P is due misses the point. While the refund  
is indeed a small amount  my proposed compensation was to address the impact of esures 
actions on Mrs P during  a period of around  two years during which she experienced distress 
and inconvenience.  Esure could have explained  the position to Mrs P from the start, namely 
that other  than during one policy year they didnt charge her anything  extra  for business  use. 
But instead  esure gave the impression she was charged more  because of choices she 
made, when that wasn't the case.  And that caused Mrs P to challenge esure. Perhaps if 
things were properly  explained Mrs P may have decided to take a different course  than she 
did. But as explained  in my provisional  decision, she spent a lot of time and effort in dealing  
with esure,  the broker and our service. I therefore think £300 compensation is a reasonable 
amount as its similar to awards  we make in cases that have had a similar impact on the 
consumer as esures mistakes have  had on Mrs P.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited 
to:
Refund Mrs P £6.29 together with simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
she asked for a refund until the refund is made.1
Pay Mrs P £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mrs P has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept
or reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
1 If esure consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs P how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5438630