K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the way Covea Insurance plc has handled  a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Rs home  was damaged  by a lightning strike and they, with their children,  moved  
out to allow  Covea to repair the damage. It was anticipated that theyd be able to move back 
after around six months (in March 2017), such was the extent of the damage.  
The repairs  didnt go well as issues arose with the contractors and Covea discontinued the 
contractors involvement  in May 2017. Covea paid Mr and Mrs R an amount of money, at 
their wish, so that they could instruct their own contractors to complete the work. Mr and 
Mrs R moved  back home in July 2017.
Since then there have  been further issues;
Mr and Mrs R believed at one point  they were owed money  amounting to £9,274.73, 
which included;
oRectifying work  previously done
oFinishing work 
oAlternative accommodation costs
During our investigation they said the amount is actually more than £21,000 
Mr and Mrs R want compensation  to include lost wages of almost £2,000, the cost of 
a family  holiday and £10,000  for the familys distress  and inconvenience.
One of our investigators  considered everything  up to when the complaint came to us in 
March 2018. She said any issues after that would need to be the subject of a further  
complaint to Covea,  giving it an opportunity  to respond and put things  right if necessary.
The investigator explained her thoughts on the three main  issues of outstanding payments, 
remedial work and compensation.
Outstanding payments
Covea had paid alternative accommodation  costs of £22,750 which was more than the policy 
limit of £22,000, and to cover kennel costs  and additional fuel.
Covea had paid £31,194.25 for home contents  against a list submitted by Mr and Mrs R 
totalling less than £30,000,  and deducted the policy excess of £150, which it was entitled  to 
do.
Remedial work
As Mr and Mrs R didnt  want  different  contractors  of Coveas back at their home, Covea paid 
several payments  to reflect  completion of the original work and to rectify  issues  caused by 
the original contractors. But as Mr and Mrs R had refused  Covea further access  to the 
property then theyd  necessarily involved themselves more they would need to do to oversee 
the remaining  work.
Mr and Mrs R say all costs havent  been  paid but the investigator was satisfied  Covea had 
paid all associated costs  in putting  the property right. And she said shed expect Mr and 
Ref: DRN54187642Mrs R to be able to evidence that any outstanding work or cost was a result of Coveas 
failings and not due to the private contract work.
The investigator also pointed out that Covea had paid £1,000  to reflect  the non-performance 
of the contractor.
Compensation
The investigator explained that Covea  had accepted things hadnt gone well and had 
apologised for this. In addition,  it had taken the right steps to put things right ensuring that Mr 
and Mrs R werent out of pocket as a result of the claim and how Covea had handled  it. And 
while Covea had paid £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, the 
investigator thought  an additional £750  was a fair reflection  of the stress caused and 
inconvenience of being out of the home longer than they should have. 
The investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs R had evidenced the loss of any wages as a result 
of what Covea had done, or that theyd  lost a holiday. 
Covea accepted that it should increase the compensation  in line with what  the investigator 
had said. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree on the basis that they believed there was an 
outstanding amount of more than £21,000.  
The investigator again explained that Covea had shown it had paid all relevant costs  relating 
to repair  of the building, the contents  of the property and alternative accommodation 
(including kennel fees). In short, the investigator explained to Mr and Mrs R that they needed  
to provide evidence  to support the claim they make for a substantial sum of money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with what the investigator has explained in detail  to the parties  and on more than one 
occasion. There is no dispute about the amounts Covea  has already paid. The issue is that 
Mr and Mrs R claim  Covea still owe more than £21,000.
Mr and Mrs R had legal assistance and indeed the solicitor  had been  in contact with Covea 
setting out 11 issues and offered to settle  the matter for £15,000. Covea explained  to the 
solicitor that the first seven points had been  covered by buildings  payments made, kennel 
costs had been paid, there had been  no claim  for a hot tub rather  just servicing  costs  which  
had been paid, and there was no evidence for loss of wages or a lost holiday. Covea said it 
would review its position if it received further  evidence.
It is generally accepted  that it is for a claimant to prove their financial loss or entitlement  to a 
claim. With regard to the amount Mr and Mrs R say is owed, there  is simply insufficient  
evidence that shows they are either  out of pocket because Covea hasnt paid what it should, 
or that they have a valid entitlement to the amount claimed because of the insured event or 
the way Covea handled the claim. I note that both Covea and the investigator have 
explained this, such that the solicitor and Mr and Mrs R are aware of what  needs  to be done 
to prove  entitlement to the amount.
Ref: DRN54187643Ive looked at all the information carefully and Im satisfied that Covea has paid its liabilities 
under the claim  and that related to the consequences of how the claim was handled. Covea 
has offered further  review  if Mr and Mrs R provide evidence to support their additional claim, 
and Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances.  
Id add that the nature of the claim was always  going to cause Mr and Mrs R significant  
distress, inconvenience  and disruption as they had to move  their family out of the home. It 
was unfortunate  that the initial contractors  failed to meet Coveas standards  and Covea did 
what wed expect in trying  to put things right by making sure Mr and Mrs R were  able to get 
the repairs finished. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs R refused to allow another set of Coveas contractors  access 
to their home, but Covea offered a different firm to do the repairs. Mr and Mrs Rs decision 
meant they unnecessarily took on more  involvement than they needed  to in the 
circumstances. Had Covea not offered a different contractor I would have expected 
compensation to be paid to reflect the stress and inconvenience that Mr and Mrs R 
experienced in effectively  trying to manage the repairs  personally.  But they took this on 
when they didnt need to and so it wouldnt be fair, in my view,  to require Covea to pay 
compensation for this aspect.
I bear in mind that Mr and Mrs R were  out of their property longer than was scheduled and 
then lived in their home while further rectification took place. In these circumstances Covea 
has agreed to pay an additional £750 and Im satisfied this is fair compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr and Mrs R £750  
compensation.
Covea must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs R accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5418764