K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with their travel insurance  claim.  They want UKI to pay for their holiday and the 
week off work Mrs K had due to stress.
background
Mr and Mrs K had a travel  insurance policy with UKI. While away  on holiday,  Mrs K became  
unwell and was admitted  to hospital. They said that UKI refused to guarantee that her 
hospital costs  would  be covered by the policy  as it was a weekend and it couldnt check if it 
was a pre-existing condition until Monday.  Mr and Mrs K said that it then refused to give the 
guarantee as UKI said that it needed  to see the translated medical  documents  first. Mrs K 
said that she needed a week off work after the holiday  due to the stress she suffered and her 
ill-health. Mrs K also said that she discharged herself early  from hospital as she couldnt 
afford the bill (having  been told shed have  to pay if UKI didnt) and the rest of her holiday  
was spent suffering,  despite wishing to be readmitted (Mrs K didnt get readmitted as the 
hospital wanted a deposit).
Mr and Mrs K complained to UKI. It said it shouldnt have said it needed to check  if there 
was a pre-existing condition as Mrs K got gastroenteritis, which  couldnt  have  been  a pre-
existing condition, and apologised. UKI also said that its team shouldve been  able to spot 
the Spanish abbreviation for gastroenteritis from the documents they received  and given the 
guarantee. But it did note that the guarantee was given  within  two days and within  five 
minutes of the last telephone call with Mr K. 
UKI then said that its staff was correct to say that it needed a medical report with a 
confirmed diagnosis to give the guarantee and it only said that it was possible it would need 
to check if there was a pre-existing  condition. UKI also said that it was the hospitals policy  to 
require a deposit and get Mrs K to sign a form about  any possible debt, which  was outside of 
its control. But it remained of the view that its team  shouldve noticed the abbreviation for the 
diagnosis once the documents were received and this caused delays and distress.  UKI paid 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs K complained to us. The investigators  view was that it was fair and reasonable 
for UKI to say that it needed to see the medical evidence before giving the guarantee in 
order to check Mrs Ks condition was covered under the policy. But he agreed  that UKI 
shouldve given the guarantee earlier as it shouldve seen from the documentation what was 
wrong with Mrs K and that it was covered. The investigator thought  this caused about 12 
hours of delays. He also noted that Mrs K discharged herself before UKI gave incorrect  
information about waiting for the translation  (as it hadnt have a chance  to review the medical 
evidence) and this was her decision,  not UKIs.  The investigator also commented that as 
soon as Mrs K became  ill, her holiday was likely to be ruined and it wasnt  UKIs  fault she 
became ill and needed time off work. He also noted  that UKI wasnt  responsible for the 
actions of the hospital. The investigator said £150 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN55205722Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said the 12 hours delay caused Mrs K to discharge  herself 
and the compensation wasnt enough. The investigator said that Mrs K discharged  herself 
before UKI couldve read the medical  evidence and spotted the diagnosis without waiting for 
translation. But he also noticed  that UKI spoke to the hospital just before Mrs K discharged  
herself and thought if the guarantee had been given then, it was likely that shed have 
stayed in the hospital. The investigator said the compensation should  be increased to £250 
(including the £150 already paid).
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the second  view and said the guarantee shouldve been given 
the first time that they called UKI. Mrs K was adamant that if this had happened,  she 
couldve enjoyed the rest of her holiday.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKI was fair and reasonable in needing  to see the medical evidence from the hospital 
before giving the guarantee;  this couldnt  be done over the phone  in the initial  call with Mr K. 
The hospital  needed to send the evidence to UKI. It was also fair and reasonable (and 
standard industry practice)  to warn Mr K in the first call that it may be necessary to check  
whether Mrs K was suffering from a pre-existing condition (though  once  the diagnosis  was 
known, this wasnt necessary and wasnt  undertaken).
I also think that UKI did unfairly and unreasonably cause a delay once it received the 
medical evidence.  Its reasonable for a short period  of time to pass  upon receipt of the 
evidence as its not always possible for someone  to look at something immediately. But the 
evidence shows that once the medical information  was reviewed, action wasnt taken  UKI 
itself accepts that it shouldve spotted  the diagnosis and didnt need a translation (plus  it had 
a speaker of the language  involved  on duty). This caused delay and was a failing on UKIs 
part.
The issue  in this case is compensation.  Mrs K says more compensation should be paid as 
her holiday  was ruined,  she needed time off work  afterwards and she chose to discharge  
herself too early. Mrs K then wasnt able to get readmitted due to the hospital requiring  a 
deposit. Its important  to separate out the actions of the hospital  from the actions of UKI.
There was a call between  UKI and the hospital minutes before Mrs K discharged herself. 
UKI didnt  give the guarantee  in that call and it isnt clear whether it had time to review the 
medical information by then. But its reasonable to expect UKI to look at what it had available  
to it during that call, and UKI accepts that it shouldve  been obvious Mrs K was covered from 
the information available. Theres no dispute  that the guarantee wasnt  given. I cant  be 
certain if Mrs K wouldve discharged herself whether if the guarantee had been given in that 
call as it was literally  just before she left, but I think its possible.
But I dont think its fair or reasonable  for UKI to pay compensation  for the hospitals refusal 
to readmit Mrs K without a deposit; the guarantee only covered  the earlier stay, not future 
treatment and UKI isnt responsible for the hospitals policies. I also dont think  that Mrs Ks 
later time off work should be compensated for by UKI for two reasons  first, she was off due 
to the illness,  which  wasnt  UKIs  fault;  secondly, the policy  specifically excludes loss of 
earnings caused by illness.
Ref: DRN55205723This leaves  one point  that hasnt been  addressed  by UKI. The policy does deal with 
quarantine situations; Mrs K has said that as she was so unwell (and discharged herself  
early from hospital), she was confined  within her hotel room  for the rest of the holiday. This 
service can direct a business to pay a proportionate settlement in such circumstances; this 
means not the whole  cost of the holiday is refunded but a fair and reasonable part could be. I 
dont know from the available  evidence whether Mr K was confined  to the hotel room much 
of the time either or how Mrs Ks illness impacted on their holiday (for example, is there 
evidence that it was medically necessary  for Mr K to stay with Mrs K?). The investigator has 
asked the parties  to look at whether Mr and Mrs K have a claim for effective curtailment, and 
if that claim is declined, this service can look at this specific point separately. Mr and Mrs K 
have agreed;  UKI have said it doesnt accept that the evidence supports such  a claim.
While it is for Mr and Mrs K to provide evidence to support any claim of effective curtailment, 
I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to consider whether  there is such a claim and to give 
Mr and Mrs K an opportunity to provide any evidence relevant to that claim. If Mr and Mrs K 
arent happy with the outcome, they will be able to bring a new complaint to this service.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. Taking all the circumstances into 
account, including the trouble and upset suffered by the early  discharge, delays by UKI in 
giving the guarantee and the multiple calls with Mr K trying  to get the guarantee in place 
earlier, I think £250 compensation  is fair and reasonable  for the customer  service failings set 
out above. This includes the £150 already  paid.  The claim for effective curtailment should be 
considered by UKI under the terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and UK Insurance Limited should pay an 
additional £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs K and consider whether there  is an effective 
curtailment claim  under  the terms and conditions of the policy. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my 
decision before  21 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520572