K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading as Egg, 
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2000, Mr M applied for a credit card online. At the same time he was sold PPI. The PPI 
protected his card repayments if he wasnt able to work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint in May 2019. I said I was minded not to 
uphold it and set out my provisional reasons for reaching that conclusion. I asked Mr M and 
Canada Square  to let me have anything else they wanted me to consider before I issued my 
final decision. Neither party has sent in anything further. Mr Ms complaint now comes to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
As there is no new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from my 
provisional decision. So, I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint and my reasons are the same as  
set out in my provisional decision. I have  repeated  these here. 
Mr M says that it wasnt made  clear that the policy was optional.  He says the fact this wasnt 
clearly disclosed meant  he ended up with a policy he didnt want. 
Canada Square  has provided screen shots, which it says Mr M wouldve seen at the time he 
completed his application.  These show two options for PPI:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments  against accident, sickness and unemployment...  
No, I do not wish to protect  my repayments... 
Canada Square  says that it wouldve been necessary for Mr M to select  one of these options 
for the application  to progress further.  I havent seen anything to make me think the usual 
sales process wasnt applied in Mr Ms case.  So, I think  it likely that he wouldve had to say 
whether he wanted  PPI before he could  submit his application.
Canada Square  has also provided a copy of a computer generated Applications  Report  for 
Mr M. This shows  Y under the heading  Payment protection  indicating that he selected yes 
to having PPI. I think this report  is likely to accurately show Mr Ms response at the time.
So, I think it more likely  that PPI was added to Mr Ms account because  he chose to take it. I 
can understand why he may not remember it that way now, after so much  time.
Ref: DRN54131532I dont think Canada Square recommended the PPI policy  to Mr M, so it didnt have to 
ensure that it was suitable for him. But, it still needed to give him enough clear information  
about the PPI for him to decide,  for himself, whether he wanted  to take it.
I can see that the cost of the policy was set out on-line. The policys main terms and 
limitations were also on-line. I cant know if Mr M read these, but selecting  the button  he did, 
he also confirmed hed read and agreed  to these terms. 
But, I still think that the information Canada  Square  gave Mr M about the PPI policy couldve 
been clearer. Our adjudicator thought that Canada Square had failed to bring  a significant 
feature of the policy to his attention, and that this wouldve mattered to Mr M because he had 
a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC). Ive thought very carefully  about  this. 
Weve asked Mr M a few times about his PEMC.  Hes said that it will take time and money to 
get proof of this from the doctor or hospital. He says when he took out the policy he was an 
employed director at the company he worked for and couldnt be laid off for sickness.  He 
said the symptoms  of his condition  first presented themselves when he did heavy exercise. 
Hes recently told us that he didnt have to have time off work because of his condition, apart 
from hospital or doctor visits. He said it was and is controlled with prescription drugs and it 
didnt affect his work or home life. He also said his condition  was diagnosed shortly  before 
he took out PPI. Based  on what Mr Ms said about  his PEMC, I think even if Canada Square 
had given him clearer information about the exclusions for PEMCs,  he wouldve still taken 
out the policy, because I think he wouldnt have thought hed have to make a claim because 
of it. Although Mr M has a life long condition, I havent seen anything to suggest that it was 
expected to impact  on his day to day living and ability to work.
The policy also looked  appropriate for Mr M because:
he appears to have been  eligible  for the policy  and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr M told us he was employed at the time of sale and eligible  to get sick pay from his 
employer, six months  worth at full pay and six months worth at half pay. But, the policy 
would have paid out on top of his work benefits. So I think he would have still found the 
cover useful  to protect his credit card repayments.
Ive no reason to think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr M. The monthly  premium  for 
the PPI cover was shown  on his credit card statements, so he could have cancelled the 
policy if he thought  it no longer  met his needs and wasnt worth  paying for. 
Based on what Ive heard, I dont think that Mr M has lost out because of anything  that 
Canada Square  may have  done wrong  when it sold him this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN54131533my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold this complaint  against Canada Square  Operations  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5413153