K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc charged him a handling fee when he used 
his Tesco  credit card to repay borrowing he had with a third party.
Mr O also complains he was charged interest on this transaction.
background
On 31 May 2018, Tesco changed the terms and conditions governing  how the credit card 
operates and sent out a notice of variation in advance to its customers.  One of the new 
terms said a 3.99% cash handling  fee would apply for a range of transactions,  including 
repaying borrowing. 
In June 2018, Mr O made a payment  to a third party using his Tesco credit card and was 
charged £191.44 handling fee and £33.80 in interest. Mr O complained  to Tesco  and said he 
hadnt received  any notice  of this change. He said it was only when he noticed  the fee on his 
statement and queried this with Tesco that was told about the changes. 
Tesco didnt  agree that a mistake had been made  and didnt offer to refund  the fee or 
interest to Mr O. 
Our adjudicator thought Tesco had dealt  with Mr Os complaint fairly. She was satisfied that 
it had notified  Mr O of the changes. She said Tesco  had sent him an email, included the 
notice of variation  on his statement and this referred to an attached leaflet which  provided 
further detail of the changes. In addition to this Tesco  had sent Mr O a letter in the post.   
Mr O remained  unhappy. He said the notice wasnt clear and he wasnt  given enough  time.  
He also felt that as a long standing,  loyal customer he had been disregarded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr O that Im not upholding his complaint and Ill 
explain my reasons why Im not asking Tesco to do anything  further.
Its not for me to consider whether Tesco should  be able to charge for transactions  like this. 
This is a legitimate  commercial decision and isnt something our service would usually 
interfere with. But what I can consider is whether Tesco notified Mr O of the changes, how 
clearly the information  was presented  to him and whether I think  Tesco did enough overall.
Tesco says it sent information about the changes to Mr O electronically  and by post so Ive 
looked at the evidence  it provided to show this carefully.  
Tesco sent Mr O an email  in April 2018It  told him that his statement was available to view 
online. Underneath it said ***IMPORTANT CHANGES TO YOUR CREDIT CARD 
AGREEMENT***. It explained  Tesco was changing some of the transactions it classified as 
cash and that it was changing  some  of its fees.  A link was also provided which contained  
further information about the changes. 
Ref: DRN58873212I think this wouldve alerted Mr O to the need to click on the link given. The link wouldve 
taken Mr O to a document.  This again explains that Tesco  is making some key changes and 
these include changing the type of transactions that are classified as cash, and that some of 
its fees would be changing. 
It says a handling fee of 3.99% will apply to cash transactions.  And that cash  transactions 
include repaying borrowing e.g loans and mortgages. Just underneath  this is a red box 
which says The types of transactions classified  as cash are listed above.  I dont think the 
terms and conditions were overly long or that the relevant terms were in particularly small 
print. So Im satisfied that the terms and conditions provided made it clear  that this type of 
transaction will incur a fee of 3.99% from 31 May 2018 onwards. 
Having looked  at the statement from April 2018,  I can see on the left hand  side it said 
Notice of variation and underneath this it said Please read the enclosed leaflet which gives  
you notice of changes  being made to your Terms  and Conditions with effect from 31 May 
2018. So I think  Mr O was given enough notice  and wouldve been aware when  he checked 
his statement. 
In his initial complaint  to us Mr O said he didnt receive notice of the changes. He explained 
that he opted for his statements to be sent to him electronically. Tescos records  support that 
this is his communication preference and it holds the same email  address that Mr O gave us 
when he brought  his complaint. I think its more  likely than not Tesco did send the above 
information electronically to Mr O to let him know about the changes.
Tesco has also provided evidence which  suggests it also sent Mr O a letter on 
21 May 2018. While  I havent  seen  a copy of the actual letter, I have seen  a template and 
the mailing list which includes Mr Os details. So I think its more likely than not that Tesco 
did send this letter to him. 
Even though  Mr Os communication preference was to receive  his statements online, Tesco  
says it wrote to Mr O because it knew Mr O had had made one or more of these types of 
transactions in the past, so he may be affected by the new changes.  
Ive seen a sample  copy of this letter which refers to the April 2018  statement and explains  
Tesco is increasing the handling  fee for cash  transactions and that its changing the types of 
transactions it classifies as cash.  There is a table further down  the letter which  says 
repaying borrowing  will now attract a handling  fee of 3.99%. So I think Tesco  made it clear in 
this letter  what the changes would be and I think Mr O was given adequate notice that this 
was going to happen. 
Mr O has said he doesnt always read the terms and conditions  when he goes online. But 
given that the notification  was on his statement, in an email and also explained by letter,  I 
think Mr O should have  been aware  of the changes to his account.   
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think Tesco has done enough. I say this because  it 
contacted Mr O through two channels. I think it did enough to alert Mr O to the fact there 
were changes to his account,  and what these were going to be. I also think  it gave Mr O 
sufficient notice. So I cant fairly say that its done  something wrong  here. And it wouldnt be 
fair to tell Tesco it has to refund those charges even though Mr O has been a customer for 
many years.
my final decision
Ref: DRN58873213My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5887321