K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly 
terminated a hire purchase agreement for a car. 
background
In July 2018 Mrs E entered  into a four year fire purchase agreement  with VWFS for a new 
car. Under  the agreement Mrs E was to make monthly payments, but in November 2018 her 
account fell into arrears and a default letter was sent to her.
Mrs E called VWFS in December  2018 to ask for the payment date for her monthly 
payments to be changed. VWFS explained  that this change could be done from January  
2019, but that the account was in arrears which would need  to be cleared. It was also 
explained to Mrs E that she would need  to pay Decembers payment manually.
Around two days  later Mrs Es son, who was an authorised party for Mrs Es account, called 
VWFS to check  whether  payments had been made. VWFS informed Mrs Es son that 
payments hadnt  yet been received. Mrs Es son and VWFS discussed the payment dates 
and it was agreed that VWFS would change the dates of the payments back as otherwise 
Mrs E would have to make the December and January monthly payments too close  together.
Later in December 2018 the arrears were  cleared but the monthly payment for December 
wasnt made. Payments were then missed  for January 2019 and March 2019  and letters  
were sent to Mrs Es home address about  each  of those missed  payments. A Notice of 
Sums in Arrears was sent to Mrs Es home  address but no contact was made with VWFS.
In April 2019 VWFS attempted to contact  Mrs E by phone and left voice mail messages but 
no contact was made by her. A Default Notice was then sent explaining that if the arrears  
were not cleared then the agreement could be terminated.
In May 2019  that months due payment was made,  but the arrears remained outstanding and 
there was no contact from Mrs E. VWFS made the decision  to terminate the hire purchase 
agreement with Mrs E. It sent her two letters explaining its decision and that a third party  
would be in contact  on its behalf.
Two days later Mrs E contacted VWFS  and said that due to a reduction in wages  and poor 
health she had been unable to make payments. VWFS said that the agreement had been 
terminated and couldnt be restored.
Mrs E complained to VWFS that it had acted unfairly in terminating the agreement. She said 
she hadnt received  the letters about  the status of her account and had been out of the 
country and so was unaware her bank hadnt made  the payments.  Mrs E also said she had 
asked to be contacted by email but VWFS  hadnt done this. 
VWFS didnt  uphold her complaint saying it had followed its procedures  and correctly 
terminated the agreement due to non-payment.
Mrs E complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend her complaint should  
be upheld. 
Our investigator said that a number of letters about the arrears, and the Default Notice, had 
been sent to Mrs Es home address which was the address that had been  verified  in the calls 
Ref: DRN56000272in December 2018. She was satisfied these had been sent as had the Default Notice  and, 
although Mrs E may not have received them, VWFS had followed its procedure in dealing 
with the arrears on Mrs Es account.
Our investigator also said that even if Mrs E had been out of the country it remained her 
responsibility to pay the monthly payments under the agreement. Although she accepted it 
was likely Mrs E had asked for email  correspondence as a preferred method of 
communication she didnt  think  that in these circumstances  this would have prevented the 
termination of the agreement. This was because Mrs E said she had been in a remote  area 
with no internet access for a number of months.
Mrs E disagreed with our investigators  view and the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that the hire purchase  agreement  sets out that if payments are missed then the 
agreement can be terminated,  so I think its reasonable  to think that Mrs E understood the 
ramifications of missed payments. 
Mrs E says she was unaware  of the status of her account as she was abroad  from 
December 2018  to May 2019. She says she didnt have internet access at the time so was 
unaware her bank hadnt cleared the car payments.  Mrs E also says that she asked VWFS  
to send her correspondence via email  in a call she made to it in July 2018, but that it didnt  
send any of the arrears  letters,  or the Default  Notice, via this method.  She also queries 
whether the letters were  sent as she says never  received  them.
VWFS says it cant trace any call from Mrs E about this account  in July 2018.  Mrs E has 
supplied two emails  sent when  she acquired  the car (a five day cover  note and a link to the 
financial agreement) which she says is evidence that she had asked for correspondence  via 
emails. 
I dont know what was said to VWFS by Mrs E in July 2018, but I accept its likely she said 
her preferred  method of communication  was email. However, I cant reasonably say it was 
agreed that VWFS wouldnt write to Mrs E at her home address and would  only use emails  
to contact her. 
I have been able to listen to the calls made  to VWFS by Mrs E and her son in 
December 2018.  In those calls there  is no mention that Mrs E was away at the time or was 
going to be away  for several months. It also wasnt  raised that she may struggle to make 
contact due to limited or no internet access. Mrs E and her son both confirmed her home  
address to VWFS as part of the security checks for the account.
Mrs E questions whether  the arrears letters and Default Notice  were  sent out. I have seen 
copies of all the letters, and of the notice, which are all dated and show  Mrs Es correct 
address. I am satisfied  that its more  likely  than not that the correspondence  generated by 
VWFS was sent out to Mrs E. I cant say why Mrs E didnt receive  all or some of the 
documentation, but I cant reasonably say that this was due to anything  VWFS  did or didnt 
do. There is no requirement for these documents to be sent by recorded  delivery  and VWFS 
Ref: DRN56000273says that due to the seriousness  of the Default Notice this is always  sent out by post as a 
hard copy.
VWFS had also left voice mail messages on Mrs Es mobile phone.
During the call in December 2018 Mrs E said she was aware of the arrears  on the account, 
and she also knew she would have to make a manual payment for the payment due later 
that month.  While the arrears were cleared, Decembers payment was missed  as was 
March and April 2019. Mrs E says as there  was no internet access where she was staying 
she was unaware  payments werent being made  by her bank.  However, I think  this also 
means that even if VWFS had emailed her the arrears letters and Default Notice then its 
unlikely she would have  received them and been able to rectify the situation.
Im satisfied that VWFS made efforts to contact  Mrs E but was unable to do so. I think  it 
acted in accordance  with its procedures in issuing the Default Notice. Mrs E did not respond 
and her account remained in arrears.  VWFS was entitled to make the decision to terminate 
the agreement  in May 2019.
So, for the reasons given above,  Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint and I dont think VWFS 
acted unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5600027