K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts  and didnt give her a 
reason. Shes also unhappy that Barclays are still asking  her to repay her loan with them.  
Mrs B also believes her credit file has been adversely affected  as a result  of Barclays  closing 
her accounts.
Background
Mrs B held several accounts  with Barclays. 
In October  2018, following  a review of Mrs Bs accounts, Barclays made the decision  to end 
their banking relationship  with Mrs B, with immediate effect. 
Barclays sent a letter  to Mrs B explaining  their decision  to close  her accounts but didnt give 
her a reason. Mrs B wasnt happy  about  this and thought  their decision was related to a 
previous scam she says she was a victim  of. Barclays also sent an additional letter  to Mrs B 
which suggested the account  closures were Mrs Bs decision. Barclays confirmed this letter 
was sent due to an administrative error.
Mrs B complained to Barclays  about  the account  closures. Barclays reviewed their decision 
and it remained the same. However, they did offer Mrs B compensation and flowers  as an 
apology for the letter  they sent in error.  
In the meantime, Mrs B says she stopped  making payments to her loan account with 
Barclays as she didnt  think she should  have to pay it when they had closed her account.
As Mrs B remained unhappy with Barclays actions, she brought her complaint to our service.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Bs complaints  didnt think Barclays had acted 
inappropriately. He explained that they closed Mrs Bs accounts  in line with the terms and 
conditions. And theyre not obliged to give Mrs B a reason for the closure. The investigator 
also said he hadnt seen  anything to suggest  Mrs Bs credit file had been affected  because 
of Barclays closing her account.  He thought  it was more likely because  she had stopped 
paying her loan repayments  which he explained was a separate  agreement  to her current 
account, and therefore does remain in place.
Mrs B disagreed and said she wouldnt pay her loan until she knew  the reason why Barclays 
closed her account.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, Mrs B asked an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will come  as a disappointment  to 
Mrs B  so Ive explained my reasons further  below.
Ive considered Barclays actions when reviewing  and subsequently closing Mrs Bs account. 
And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line with their 
obligations. Barclays, like all UK banks,  are strictly regulated  and must take certain actions in 
Ref: DRN51473452order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations.  Based on what  Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Barclays were  acting  in line with these obligations  when  reviewing  Mrs Bs account.
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Bs account  confirm Barclays can close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. Ive reviewed whats  happened  in this case and I 
consider its fair and reasonable Barclays took the action they did. I can also see that 
Barclays wrote to Mrs B to let her know they were  closing  her account immediately. And Im 
pleased to see they referred  Mrs B to the section in their terms and conditions  which  allow 
them to do this. So, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
 
I appreciate Mrs B would  like Barclays to give her an explanation why they reviewed and 
closed her accounts. A bank isnt obliged to do that. However, Id like to reassure  Mrs B that 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied Barclays acted appropriately in the 
circumstances. 
I note Mrs B feels  her credit file has been adversely affected because  of Barclays decision 
to close her accounts. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest this is the case. Like the 
investigator, I think its more likely Mrs Bs credit  file has changed  due to payments not being  
made on other financial products, such as a loan.
I am aware  Mrs B has stopped paying her loan repayments with Barclays. She says she has 
done this because they were usually paid from an account theyve closed.  And she doesnt 
think she should pay it back  until Barclays explains why they have  closed her account. As 
the loan agreement is a separate financial agreement, I havent considered  this as part of my 
review. However, I do think its important for Mrs B to understand the impact of not paying  
repayments of a loan agreement and urge her to speak to Barclays about  her repayment 
options.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mrs B feels about  whats happened.  So, I realise Mrs B will 
be disappointed  by my decision. But overall,  based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant  say 
Barclays have acted  unreasonably or treated Mrs B unfairly when it reviewed and closed her 
account. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5147345