K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  plc did not allow  him to take out a new loan at a lower 
interest rate to repay his existing loan, as it had previously  agreed.
background
Mr T signed a fixed sum loan in 2017.  He borrowed £20,000 repayable over 60 months. He 
says he was told he would be able to take out a new loan at a lower interest rate after a year 
to repay  the existing  loan, but his application  was declined. He says he wouldnt have  
agreed to the loan if hed known he had to pay it for five years.
HSBC said the terms and conditions of the loan didnt allow  for it to reduce the interest  rate 
after 12 months and this is not a service or product it offers,  so Mr T wouldnt have been told 
this. It said Mr T applied  for a new loan in July 2018  but didnt go ahead with it, and that a 
further application in April 2019  was declined.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
the loan agreement shows an interest rate of 15.9%  for 60 months and that he couldnt  
conclude Mr T had been told the interest rate would be reduced.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said,  in summary, that:
He didnt recall  applying for a loan in July 2018  hes never been given the chance to 
take out a new loan to get out of paying interest at the higher rate.
He doesnt understand why his application was declined  in April 2019, if the bank says it 
offered him a loan in July 2018.
He signed the loan agreement because  he was told he would be able to get a better 
deal at a later date. Hes now trapped with making the repayments and subject to the 
higher interest rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed during the meeting when Mr T applied  for the 
original loan. I accept  its possible he was told he could apply for a loan at a later date to 
repay the original  loan and that he might  get a better interest rate. But I dont find this means 
he was told his application would be successful, or that a lower  interest rate was guaranteed. 
Any loan would  be subject  to Mr Ts circumstances at the time of the application and the 
banks lending criteria  both of which were subject to change.
The loan agreement  Mr T signed in 2017 is for 60 months and the APR is 15.9%. In signing 
the agreement, Mr T agreed to make  the monthly repayments for the duration  of the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN50242882Ive seen HSBCs record of Mr Ts online  loan application in July 2018. But Mr T didnt 
proceed with the loan.
He made  a further application in April 2019, but this was declined.  Any loan is subject to the 
banks lending criteria at the time of the application  and I cant  say HSBC  acted 
unreasonably in declining the loan.
Overall, I dont  find that HSBC has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5024288