K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Inter Partner  Assistance S.A. (IPA)  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with her home emergency  insurance.
background
Mrs H had a home insurance policy. It had a section providing  home  emergency  insurance. 
IPA was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to IPA I include other 
companies and individuals insofar  as I hold IPA responsible  for their actions.
Mrs Hs central  heating  boiler stopped providing  hot water and she called IPA for help on 
Thursday 20 December  2018. She complained about poor communication  and delay. She 
and her family were  without hot water  until Tuesday  8 January 2019.
In its final response letter  in February,  IPA apologised and said it was sending Mrs H a 
cheque for £250.00.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that the 
offer of compensation was fair and reflected the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that the offer of £250.00 isnt a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy said that  in response  to an emergency  - IPA would either  send an approved  
contractor or (with its prior agreement)  reimburse  Mrs H the cost of engaging  a contractor.
The policy also provided that if her home was made uninhabitable then IPA would pay an 
amount for alternative accommodation.
The policy didnt provide a timescale for a response. Its terms included  the following:
there may be times when replacement  parts  are delayed because of 
circumstances beyond  Our control.
In these cases We will not be able to avoid delays in repair,  We will keep  You 
informed throughout  Your  claim 
On 20 December Mrs H had no hot water and she called for help. IPA sent an engineer  the 
following day. He identified the need  for a replacement  diverter  valve  which  he didnt have.  
So it was bound to take some time to get the replacement valve needed  to restore hot water.
But I find IPA responsible for some avoidable  delay.  I also find it responsible for some poor 
communication - which left Mrs H having to wait at home and ring to chase progress reports.
I think that in the circumstances IPA shouldve been  more receptive to giving approval for 
Mrs H to engage her own engineer.
Ref: DRN53289122It took until 28 December  for IPA to offer to pay towards alternative accommodation. But Mrs 
H declined this (because of her cats according  to a file note). So I dont think it wouldve 
made any difference if IPA had made that offer sooner. 
For over two weeks of the festive period Mrs H and her family had to travel  to relatives 
homes in order to shower. She hasnt provided  enough details to show travel expenses  or 
telephone costs or any other financial loss. But I accept that she suffered inconvenience and 
distress including  the distress of inconvenience  to her family.
I have to keep  in mind  the policy terms. And I cant say that IPA shouldve fixed the hot water 
before the public holidays. So I cant hold IPA responsible for the whole period of 19 days 
inconvenience and distress.
If IPA hadnt  made an offer I wouldve directed it to pay £250.00 for distress  and 
inconvenience. As it made that offer in its final response letter,  I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  IPA to do any more in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A. to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5328912