K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about poor service received from an authorised  
representative of Sesame Limited in relation to a mortgage application. They are asking 
Sesame to pay compensation  for the trouble and upset  to which  they were put.
background
Mr and Mrs H owned a house on a large  plot of land. They intended to build a new property 
on part of the land and move into this when it was built, selling their original home.  Planning  
permission was obtained. Mr and Mrs H needed to finance the new build and consulted 
Sesame for advice and for a recommendation about  the most  suitable way to do this. 
The intention was to take out short-term finance secured on their existing home,  use this 
money to fund the build  and then when their original house was sold,  repay  the finance. 
Mr and Mrs H are adamant that this was never intended to be a long-term project and that 
they only needed to borrow money  for, at the most, 18 months.
Sesame recommended a mortgage over 11 years, with the first two years on a fixed  rate. 
There was an early  repayment charge (ERC) payable if the mortgage was redeemed within 
the fixed rate period.
Applications were made to two lenders  both of which turned down the applications 
because the nature of the borrowing meant that the deeds would need to be split. Mr and 
Mrs H say that Sesames adviser  insisted  that not having the title split shouldnt  be a bar to 
finding a lender. Eventually Mr and Mrs H decided to split the deeds. By this time the 
mortgage offer from the original lender had lapsed,  and all the financial information  
previously supplied was out of date.
After talking with Mr Hs accountant,  Mr and Mrs H decided to speak to another  mortgage 
adviser. On doing  so, they were told that what they needed was short-term  bridging finance, 
not a long-term  residential mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs H told Sesame they no longer wanted to use its services and asked for the £295 
fee theyd paid to be refunded, which Sesame agreed to. Mr and Mrs H have now arranged 
suitable bridging finance, but before this was put in place they had to utilise savings and 
borrow from a friend.
Sesame offered compensation of £200  for the trouble and upset to which  Mr and Mrs H had 
been put. They didnt accept this and so the complaint was brought to us. An adjudicator  
thought Sesame should pay £400  compensation, which Sesame didnt agree to. It now falls 
to me to issue a final decision  on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reasons.
I note Mr and Mrs H also raised some concerns about advice relating to their buy-to-let  
mortgage, but that isnt something  Im able to consider  here. We can only consider 
complaints against  Sesame in respect  of regulated  residential mortgage advice.
Ref: DRN58001152Mr and Mrs Hs requirements were  very specific in that they needed short-term finance  to 
fund a building project. In the circumstances, I find it was inappropriate for Sesame to 
recommend a long-term mortgage product with an ERC. 
Sesame has acknowledged  its service fell short of the required standard. It has refunded the 
fee of £295 paid by Mr and Mrs H. But Sesame  is only prepared to offer £200 compensation 
for trouble and upset. So what I have to decide  is whether thats  fair, or whether the £400 
recommended by the adjudicator is more  appropriate.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were put to a considerable  amount of trouble and upset 
which could have been avoided if Sesame had recognised  at the outset that it wasnt able to 
arrange the type of short-term funding Mr and Mrs H required. I think that an award of 
compensation of £400 is proportionate, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I am glad Mr and Mrs H were able to arrange suitable bridging  finance elsewhere and I hope 
that, once the stress of building a new property is behind  them,  they will be very happy  in 
their new home.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Sesame Limited  must 
pay Mr and Mrs H £400 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800115