K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C) should not have allowed 
him to invest  the entirety of his self invested personal pension  (SIPP) in an unregulated 
investment. 
background
On 26 October 2011 Mr H completed  an application form for an Open Pension, a SIPP 
operated by L&C.  He provided details of the investments he intended  to hold in his SIPP.
Mr H also confirmed that he had not sought or received  any advice from L&C and that L&C 
had no liability as regards  the suitability of the SIPP.
The scheme rules confirmed that L&C would act on any instructions given by Mr H with a 
number of exceptions   including be otherwise improper or inappropriate.  
Instructions were given  to invest in three investments including  a loan to Gravity  Childcare.   
A short time later in early December 2011 Mr H changed  the instruction to invest the entirety 
of the SIPP  ( less a cash sum to cover the expected fees)  in the Gravity Childcare loan.  
Mr Hs complaint was considered by an investigator.  It was his view that the complaint 
should be upheld.   He said that he thought the due diligence carried out by L&C was 
inadequate.  He was satisfied that adequate due diligence would have led to L&C concluding 
that the Gravity  Childcare Loan note was not an appropriate investment for Mr Hs SIPP.  
L&C did not agree with the investigator and made the following points:
L&Cs duties  were limited to establishing  whether this was an investment that fell within 
the list of investments  permitted by HMRC.
L&C obtained a credit report  which  rated  Gravity Childcare as amber.   This report was 
shared with Mr H before the investment was finalised.
The investigator was wrong  to say the loan was not a permitted investment.  A third 
party loan is allowed under HMRC rules. 
The Pension Ombudsman has ruled  in similar cases that SIPP operators obligations were 
limited to checking whether HMRC rules  permitted an investment to be held within a SIPP.
The 2009 FSA report only deals with identifying poor or unsuitable advice  this was a 
case that did not involve advice.
Gravity  Childcare was a third party loan and so no regulated  investment advice could 
have been given.  So there  would  have been no suitability report for L&C to request. 
Appropriate due diligence to establish that title to the asset could be obtained and that 
the third party loan could be held in the SIPP was carried  out.
No evidence  has been presented that shows the Gravity Childcare investment was 
unsuitable for Mr H.
L&C had no knowledge of the pension report prepared for Mr H by Gravity.
Ref: DRN55710142Suitable checks  were carried out on Gravity  Childcare and this was shared with Mr H.
A properly drafted loan agreement was completed  meaning the investment was safe  
and secure.  L&C  administered six loans  to Gravity Childcare  two have been  repaid in 
full and one partially  repaid.
It was unrealistic to expect L&C to evaluate the business plan of Gravity Childcare.
Mr H agreed with the investigator.  He said he had been advised to make the investment by 
an adviser (Mr B).  It  was Mr B who advised  him to invest  the entirety of the pension  in the 
Gravity Childcare investment.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons.
I note what L&C has said about the Pensions Ombudsman.  However, Im not bound  to 
follow the Pensions Ombudsmans conclusions,  which are decided by reference to a 
different statutory scheme.  Im required to form my own view,  in accordance with our own 
statutory framework, on what  I consider  the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint 
should be. Thats what Ive done  in determining this complaint.
relevant considerations
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance to my decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The Principles for 
Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association)  v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) 
Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
Ref: DRN55710143And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, 2.1.1R in the Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant. It says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client (the client's  best interests rule).
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority)  has issued a number of 
publications which remind SIPP operators  of their obligations and set out how they might  
achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009  and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The September 2009 thematic review report included the following statement:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged to ensure  the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension  scheme  is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP  operators to continuously  analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference  to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves  of any responsibility,  and we would  expect them  to have procedures  and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify 
possible instances of financial  crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs.  Such  
instances could  then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting  the 
member to confirm the position, or by contacting  the firm giving advice  and asking for 
clarification. Moreover,  while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a reputational risk 
to SIPP  operators  that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Ref: DRN55710144Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate  to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious  potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual  cases,  we 
may take enforcement action against  SIPP operators  who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles  for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made  to firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing  basis, that intermediaries that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions  to 
give the advice  they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear  on 
the FSA website  listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying respective 
responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing  SIPP business.
Routinely  recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP  investment) and 
size of investments recommended by intermediaries  that give advice and introduce 
clients to the firm, so that potentially  unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.
Being able to identify  anomalous investments,  e.g. unusually small or large  transactions  
or more esoteric  investments such as unquoted  shares,  together  with the intermediary 
that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek  appropriate 
clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of 
what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients  by the intermediary giving 
advice. While SIPP operators  are not responsible for advice, having this information  
would enhance  the firms understanding of its clients,  making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely. 
Routinely  identifying  instances of execution-only clients who have  signed  disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate  volume  of such business. 
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for this.
In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states: 
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory  responsibilities that became a requirement  in 
April 2007. 
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients  fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client  for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP  operators responsibility  
to assess its business  with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
Ref: DRN55710145The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:  
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include the following: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing  basis, that: introducers that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate  permissions to 
give the advice  they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are on the 
list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have  a clear disciplinary history;  and 
that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings  for un-authorised business 
warnings.  
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers  providing SIPP  business to a firm. 
Understanding  the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients  they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types  of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify  irregular  investments, often indicated by unusually  small or large  
transactions; or higher  risk investments such as unquoted shares  which may be illiquid.  
This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from the 
prospective member or their adviser,  if it has any concerns.  
Identifying instances when prospective  members waive  their cancellation  rights  and the 
reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility  for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information they are 
being supplied  with, or that they are providing  the firm with, is authentic and meets  the firms  
procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  relationships  and clarify 
responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such  as solicitors  and 
accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  have 
considered the additional  risks involved in accepting business from non-regulated 
introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:
Ref: DRN55710146Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their business  
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain  
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate for personal  pension  schemes)  to help 
them justify  their business decisions. In doing  this SIPP  operators  should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the tax 
charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the introducers 
that use their scheme and, where  appropriate enhancing the processes that are in place 
in order to identify  and mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business  to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks  such as viewing Companies House records,  
identifying connected  parties and visiting introducers 
oensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced  and verified  
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks,  or 
minimum standards, with the purpose  of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers or accept  investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly  identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake  further investigations  such  as instances 
of potential  pension  liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-relievable  
investments and non-standard  investments that have not been approved  by the firm. 
The July 2014 Dear CEO  letter  provides a further reminder that the Principles apply  
and an indication  of the FCAs expectations about the kinds  of practical  steps a SIPP 
operator might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent activity, 
money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is through a 
reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements  are correctly drawn-up and 
legally enforceable).
Ref: DRN55710147Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase  and 
subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous  investors  have 
received income if expected, or that any investment  providers are credit worthy  etc).
Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports  and the 
Dear CEO letter are not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised  guidance  is). 
However, the fact that the reports and Dear  CEO letter  did not constitute formal guidance 
does not mean their importance should be underestimated. As mentioned, they provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses  apply and are an indication  for the kinds of things 
a SIPP  operator  might do to produce  the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. So I view 
them as significant  and a relevant consideration for me to take into account  when 
determining what I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also note that L&Cs regulatory  obligations  under the Principles existed from the outset of 
Mr Hs relationship with it. So the reports,  letter and guidance  which each gave the 
regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP operator might  take in practice  to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in this case. 
I recognise that the 2012 report,  2013 finalised guidance and the Dear  CEO letter  were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin  them 
existed throughout,  as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles and with 
COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best interests rule).
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  that 
the regulator expected  SIPP  operators  to have  incorporated the recommended  good practices 
into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments  suggest some 
industry participants understanding of how the standards shaped  what  was expected  of SIPP  
operators changed over time, it is clear the standards themselves did not change. 
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider L&Cs  
actions with these  documents  in mind. The reports,  letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive 
guidance. They did not say the suggestions  given were the limit of what  a SIPP  operator 
should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should  be done to meet  
regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.  So,  in deciding whether, in accepting 
Mr Hs SIPP  application L&C acted  fairly  and reasonably, I need to consider  if it complied  with 
its general duties set out by the Principles  to act with due skill, care and diligence,  to take 
reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regards 
to the interests  of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly  and 
professionally in accordance with the clients best interests. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles  and the publications listed above, as well as COBS 2.1.1R to provide an 
indication of what L&C could have done  to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties. 
I accept what L&C say about  not giving Mr H advice.  They were not authorised to give 
investment advice and there is no evidence they did.  Nor was L&C was under any obligation  
to ensure the suitability of the SIPP or the investments to be held within it.  It did however  
have an obligation  to ensure that the investment to be held in the SIPP was an appropriate 
investment for a SIPP.   
I think it probable that Mr H did receive  advice.  Mr Hs switching to a SIPP  and making the 
Gravity Childcare investment came about  following  his dealings  with an unregulated  firm.  
Ref: DRN55710148Mr H was provided with a report detailing his existing pension  arrangements and the returns  
he might  make if he moved his pension  to a SIPP in a range of high risk investments.  I 
consider it unlikely that a typical retail investor  such as Mr H would make such a significant  
change to his pension arrangements without advice.  
L&C says a third party loan is not a designated investment and so no regulated investment 
advice could have  been given.  I disagree I consider the loan note is an instrument 
acknowledging indebtedness as per article  77 of the Regulated Activities Order  (RAO).  I agree 
that L&C was under no obligation to advise Mr H nor was it authorised to give investment 
advice.  However, concluding  that an investment is not an appropriate one for a SIPP is not the 
same as saying it is unsuitable.   L&C  are responsible for the former but not the latter.
The due diligence on the Gravity Childcare  investment
L&C has said that its due diligence obligations were limited to establishing whether the loan 
note was a SIPP investment  allowed  by HMRC.  I do not agree.  It is clear from the various 
FSA/FCA publications and alerts  quoted  above that the obligations  on SIPP  operators  went  
far beyond  what L&C says it was obliged to do.  
L&C did carry  out one additional  check on Gravity Childcare beyond  establishing that a loan 
note could be held within a SIPP.  A  few days after receiving Mr Hs SIPP  application L&C 
obtained a credit report.  This rated Gravity  as amber out of the three options of red, amber,  
green.  The report  gives no explanation  of the rating but I assume amber is a cautionary  
rating.  This would also appear to be L&Cs  view.  It emailed Mr H telling  him of the amber  
rating and asking him to confirm if he still wished to go ahead - which  he did.  In  my view it 
was inappropriate, giving their apparent concerns about the credit  rating  to just ask Mr H if 
he was happy  to proceed.  L&Cs obligation was to carry out sufficient  due diligence  to 
establish whether  the Gravity  Childcare  loan was an appropriate investment for a SIPP.  
Whether to allow the investment to proceed should  have been based  on L&Cs  due diligence  
not Mr Hs uninformed consent.     
The credit report also set out a recommended exposure limit as follows:
Having reviewed and analysed the latest  information available: We would suggest setting a 
credit limit on monthly terms  of 500.
The loan that Mr H made to Gravity Childcare was around £62,000.   So even the very limited 
due diligence  that L&C carried out should have caused it be concerned.   The credit report it 
obtained strongly suggested  that to lend £62,000 to Gravity Childcare  was inappropriate.       
What due diligence  should have L&C carried out?
I think the FCAs key points as set out in the Dear CEO letter  of 2014  are the correct 
benchmark as to due diligence.  This document sets out the key requirements of due 
diligence in the following terms:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent activity, 
money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ref: DRN55710149Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is through a 
reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements  are correctly drawn-up and 
legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase  and 
subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous  investors  have 
received income if expected, or that any investment  providers are credit worthy  etc).
L&C, based  on the very limited knowledge  it had of Gravity Childcare, was not in a position 
to establish any of the above.  Furthermore there  was virtually  no information in the public  
domain about  Gravity Childcare.  In  late 2011  no accounts had been published.  The only 
financial information available in the public domain was that the issued share  capital of the 
firm was just £1 and that there was an outstanding mortgage  on a property it owned.
This was clearly inadequate to establish that the investment  was genuine and not a scam.  
Mr H was lending a substantial sum of money  to Gravity Childcare and there  was no 
information available that would provide any reassurance that Gravity Childcare was in a 
position to repay the loan.
So whether  Gravity Childcare was a bona  fide business wasnt able to be established on the 
publically available information.  L&C  could have asked Mr H what  he knew  about Gravity 
Childcare and what information he had been supplied  with.  The only information Mr H was 
provided with was a series of charts showing what his pension would be with if he invested  in 
the loan note (assuming the indicated interest  was paid).  This  is in itself concerning in that 
Mr H was not told anything about the business he was investing in.  The only way to establish  
the above key things  about Gravity Childcare would have been  to approach it directly.  
L&C has provided a brochure  produced  by Gravity  Childcare which  gives  a description of the 
business.  L&C has not said when it obtained this document or how.   The  document is not 
dated and so it is not clear when it was produced.  However, even assuming the document 
was produced before Mr H made  the investment and L&C were  aware  of the document I am 
not persuaded that it provided  the necessary information to satisfy the SIPP operators due 
diligence obligations.       
The introduction to the document  (described  as an investment prospectus) says the following: 
This document details an alternative  investment through issuing of a loan note to the 
company. Prospective  investors must rely on their own examination  of the legal, taxation,  
financial and other consequences of any contribution  made in this investment including risk 
involved. Advice can be sort (sic) from suitably  qualified professionals.
Despite being  a financial promotion it is not approved by an authorised person and there  is 
no indication  of the type of investor the promotion could be made to (i.e. which, if any, 
exemption would apply).   Given  this, a SIPP operator should be concerned  about  what  
appeared to be an illegal promotion  by Gravity  Childcare of the loan notes.  This in itself 
should have raised concerns about the integrity  of Gravity Childcare.
Ref: DRN557101410The document is entirely generic in nature.  It describes in general terms the market for 
private childcare providers and the opportunities within it.  It gives illustrations of the types of 
income and costs that a childrens care home might generate.  No references  or sources  are 
provided as to the validity of the assumptions   for example the typical  cost of a residential 
placement for a child.  What is missing is any figures about Gravity  Childcare such  as how 
many homes it operates or what income it generates,  what  contracts, if any, it had with local 
authorities.  This is information that would be essential to form a view on whether Gravity 
Childcare was a bona  fide business.
So there is evidence  that Gravity Childcare was illegally promoting the loan notes.  It also 
didnt provide Mr H with sufficient information to make an informed choice about the 
investment.  This should have led to concerns that the loan notes were not being marketed 
in an appropriate  way.  Loans  to unquoted  companies are generally  the type of investment  
that knowledgeable and experienced  investors make.  In my view such  an investor would not 
have loaned money to Gravity Childcare without far more financial information being 
available.  The lack of any financial  information  about Gravity Childcare is in my view 
evidence that it was being marketed  to unsophisticated investors in an inappropriate way.  In  
the circumstances, acting fairly ad reasonably,  L&C should have identified  a significant risk 
of consumer detriment.
A brief summary of the financial position of gravity Childcare at the time Mr H invested is 
contained in the accounts for the year end December 2011.  Whilst these werent publically 
available they give an indication of what Gravity Childcare  would  have told L&C if it had 
made the necessary enquiries.  The accounts  showed that the financial position  was 
extremely weak the equity  capital was just £1 and the company  was entirely funded  by debt 
(presumably loan notes).  The company would not appear to be profitable with a deficit  of 
shareholders funds  of over £0.5m.  So the financial position of Gravity Childcare was 
extremely weak and apparently being financed  largely by loan notes.  
My conclusions from the above are as follows:
L&C did not obtain  enough information about Gravity Childcare to vary out adequate  due 
diligence on it.
If it had made proper enquiries  about Gravity Childcare it would have established:
Gravity  Childcare was illegally promoting the investment (the loan note).
The financial position of Gravity  Childcare  was extremely weak.
The business was being funded entirely by loans
It gave investors no reassurance that it had a realistic business plan
It provided no financial  information about  the business which  was essential to assess 
whether the loan note would be repaid.  
Taking all of these concerns about  Gravity Childcare together  my conclusion is that the loan 
note was not an appropriate  investment for Mr Hs SIPP.  Acting  fairly  and reasonably I am 
satisfied that L&C should have established this.  If it had it would not have accepted  Mr Hs 
application to make the Gravity Childcare investment.   For this reasons my conclusion is that 
the complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN557101411fair compensation
Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to hold L&C responsible for the whole loss Mr H suffered 
in relation to his SIPP. And Im satisfied it should  therefore put him as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if he had not switched  his pension.
L&C should  calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value of Mr Hs pension, if he had 
not switched,  with the current  value of his SIPP. In summary:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Hs previous pension  plan,  if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP.
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Hs SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
3.Pay a commercial value to buy the assets held in Mr Hs SIPP.
4.Pay an amount into Mr Hs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
In addition, L&C should:
5.Pay Mr H £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
I have explained  how L&C should carry this out in further detail below.
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Hs previous pension  plan if this had not
been transferred  to the SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private
Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market
Income Total Return Index) should be used instead.  That is a reasonable proxy  for the type 
of return that could have been  achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.
2. Obtain the actual  transfer value of Mr Hs SIPP, including  any outstanding charges.
The difference between 1 and 2 is the loss to the pension.
Pay a commercial value  to buy the assets  held in Mr Hs SIPP.
To calculate the compensation, L&C should pay a commercial value, and then take 
ownership of the investment.
If L&C is unable  to buy the investment, it should  give it a nil value for the purposes  of 
calculating compensation.  L&C  may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment the SIPP  may receive from the investments. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount Mr H may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. L&C will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN557101412Pay an amount into Mr Hs SIPP so that the transfer  value is increased  to equal the value 
calculated in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available tax relief and the effect 
of charges. It should also take account of interest  as set out below.
I am not certain whether,  currently, Mr H can pay the redress  into a pension plan. If he can, it 
means that the compensation is able to be paid into a pension. If this is the case, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief  Mr H could 
claim. The notional  allowance  should be calculated using Mr Hs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr H might not currently  be able to pay the redress  into a pension. But 
had it been possible  to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore  the total amount  to be paid to Mr H should be reduced to notionally  allow  
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  The notional allowance  should be 
calculated using Mr Hs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr H is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional  allowance would equate to a reduction  in the 
total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the notional allowance  should  be applied  to 75% of the 
total amount.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP L&C should  also waives  any fees 
until the SIPP can be closed.
5. Pay Mr H £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I am satisfied that losing such a large  part of his pension provision has caused  Mr H a 
degree of upset. Im not aware  that Mr H has been put in immediate financial hardship as a 
result of this pension transfer. But I acknowledge that the feeling of potentially losing ones 
pension cant have  been easy.
And although Im not privy to Mr Hs retirement plans, it looks like but for the pension  transfer,  
hed now be in a position to take advantage of various flexible ways  to take his retirement 
benefits. For these  reasons I think its reasonable for L&C to pay Mr H the above  sum.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I order  London & Colonial Services Limited 
to pay the redress  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5571014