K821x#15complaint
Mr L sold a property which was in a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage to Clydesdale  Bank Plc. He 
complains that Clydesdale unfairly  refused  to port his mortgage product, so he had to pay an 
early repayment charge  (ERC). 
To resolve  his complaint  he wants Clydesdale to refund the ERC.
background
Mr L had a BTL mortgage  with Clydesdale which he took out in 2007. In 2017 he made a 
product switch pursuant to a mortgage offer dated  2 October 2017. The new product was a 
fixed interest rate lasting  until 31 December 2022. If he repaid the loan during that period 
there would be an ERC.
The offer said: You can only port this mortgage  during  the Concessionary  Rate  Period and if 
you meet  all of our lending criteria when you ask to port.
In 2018 Mr L decided to sell the property  and buy another. He says he spoke to Clydesdale 
and was told porting  wouldnt be an issue, so he found a replacement property. Mr L says 
that just a few days before the sale was due to be completed on 8 June 2018, Clydesdale 
refused to honour  the terms of the mortgage offer and port the loan. He says it would have 
been unfair on the buyers to withdraw from the sale at such a late stage, so he completed 
and had to pay an ERC.
On Mr Ls complaint to Clydesdale it said its current  policy regarding investment housing  
loans wouldnt allow him to port the facility.  It apologised that this wasnt  made clear on the 
initial call.
Mr L wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator  
didnt recommend it be upheld. Shed reviewed the available call recordings and she 
provided an analysis  of these. The initial contact with Clydesdale  about porting was generic, 
but Mr L had phoned  Clydesdale on 4 June 2018 and said he was looking to port. The call 
handler said she needed to check whether porting would be possible  as Mr L had several 
BTL mortgages  and there were certain  criteria. The call handler  came back  and said 
(incorrectly) that Clydesdale could  look at porting.
An appointment for a porting application had been arranged  for 7 June 2018, which was the 
day before  completion.  On that day Clydesdale had told Mr L that porting wouldnt be 
possible because of the number of BTL mortgages  he already had with Clydesdale.  
The investigator said the first time Mr L contacted the porting team was on 4 June 2018. 
Whilst hed been  given incorrect advice during this call, the investigator thought hed still 
have completed the sale if hed been  told on 4 June that hed be unable to port, given the 
late stage it was at.
The investigator said the mortgage  offer didnt  create a binding agreement  to port. It was 
subject to meeting  Clydesdales current lending  criteria at the time of porting.  The criteria 
specified a maximum number of eight BTL mortgages per customer,  which Mr L had 
exceeded.
Ref: DRN54944432Mr L didnt agree and asked  for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. He said 
Clydesdale had been allowed to hide behind the offer wording  without explaining how its 
lending criteria had changed  so dramatically after issuing the offer on 2 October 2017.
He appreciated  that Clydesdales lending criteria may have changed since he originally took 
the mortgages but didnt  consider  anything had significantly changed in the period since  the 
product switch, when  Clydesdale could  simply have removed the porting option  from the 
offer had it chosen  to.
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr L says that Clydesdale didnt  honour  the terms of a legally binding mortgage  offer.  But 
that overlooks  the requirement to satisfy the current  lending criteria.  And although there was 
no limit when Mr L originally took his BTL mortgage, by the time of his porting application it 
was Clydesdales  policy not to allow more than three  Clydesdale BTL mortgages, or eight 
overall.
I wouldnt expect a lender to have a differently worded mortgage or product offer,  omitting 
the porting option, for customers with multiple BTL mortgages. The offer referred  to the 
criteria in force at the time of a porting application and thats what Id expect to see. So it 
doesnt follow, as Mr L suggests, that Clydesdale must have changed  its criteria  at some 
time after 2 October  2017. The criteria  could equally well have changed at any time after the 
original mortgage.  Clydesdale  says it was in 2012.
Mr L also notes that Clydesdale apologised that the position wasnt made  clear  on the initial 
call. He says:
You will note in the letter they apologise  for agreeing to the port during my initial  telephone 
conversation. It was on the back of that initial conversation that I agreed to instruct  estate 
agents to sell the house rather  than re-let. This decision  would not have been  made  had I 
been aware that I would  be targeted with a redemption penalty.
But Clydesdales apology refers to Mr Ls call on 4 June 2018. It cant  be the case  that Mr L 
instructed estate agents to find a buyer in reliance on that call, which was only three days  
before exchange  of contracts. 
Ive listened to a number  of call recordings. Mr L says he called Clydesdale  before putting  
the property on the market, but Clydesdale has no evidence of this, and Mr L has no details 
either. However Mr Ls broker did call Clydesdale on 9 January 2018 about  whether his 
client, who had a number  of buy-to-lets with Clydesdale  and was thinking of selling a 
property, could port a fixed rate. The Clydesdale  adviser said this couldnt  be done through 
the broker channel  and that he (the adviser) couldnt advise on it. The broker  made  two calls 
on 9 May 2018  which were about  whether porting could  happen  after completion of a sale.  
His call on 30 May 2018  was to ask whether  he could deal with a porting application or 
whether his client would have to speak to Clydesdale direct.  None of these calls related to 
Mr Ls accounts. Mr L wasnt identified.
Ref: DRN54944433However, there is a problem with Mr Ls call on 4 June 2018, which Ive also listened to. The 
Clydesdale adviser,  who is aware  that Mr L has several BTL mortgages, returns after 
keeping him on hold and says she was just double checking with a mortgage adviser as to 
whether porting was something they could look at but it definitely is.
I note that Mr L didnt apply to port until 7 June 2018, the day contracts  were  exchanged for 
the sale of the property.  The email  on 7 June from his solicitors  informing him that contracts 
had been exchanged was at 12:01:08. Mr Ls porting appointment was at 12:30 (made  in the 
second call on 4 June), so it follows that Mr L exchanged contracts  for the sale,  and was 
obliged to proceed with it, before hed even  started his porting application. 
This created a risk that his application  might  fail, causing an ERC to be incurred, because 
Mr L didnt meet the criteria. Its evident from his correspondence that he didnt realise,  or 
had forgotten, that the ability to port depended  on the current criteria being  met, but that 
wasnt the fault of Clydesdale.  It would  have been much better if the application  had been  
discussed with the porting team at an earlier stage.
But the fact remains  that the reason why the criteria werent met (because Mr L had too 
many BTL mortgages)  was something  which the adviser on 4 June knew  when she told Mr L 
that Clydesdale could look at an application. The application procedure would have to be 
gone through, but I consider that Mr L was entitled to conclude  after the call on 4 June that 
there wasnt a bar to the porting application being considered. Which there was. It was 
always bound to fail, and Clydesdale should  have  told Mr L that.
Contracts hadnt at that point been exchanged,  and it was open to Mr L to withdraw  from the 
sale. The investigator  considered that had Mr L been told on 4 June that hed be unable  to 
port, hed still have  completed on the sale given  the late stage it was at. And indeed Mr L 
confirmed this in his letter of complaint to this service dated 7 January 2019 where he says:
Iwas only advised that Clydesdale would not honour the terms of the mortgage offer and 
port the loan just a few days before the sale completed. It would  have been  unfair  on the 
buyers  to withdraw from the sale at such a late stage.
Completion was 8 June following exchange  of contracts on 7 June, so in fact it was only a 
day before  the sale was completed.  But it follows from what Mr L says that if hed been told 
on 4 June (i.e. a few days before) that he couldnt  port, he would still have  gone  ahead 
because it would have  been unfair to withdraw. The legal and marketing  costs  hed already 
incurred might also have  supported  this course  of action.
For this reason I dont  consider it would be fair to order Clydesdale  to refund the ERC,  as 
Mr L would  have incurred  it even if the mistake  hadnt been made on 4 June. But I do think it 
would be appropriate  for Clydesdale to compensate  Mr L for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by the wrong advice. It must have been irritating and distressing for Mr L to have been 
told on 4 June that he was in the clear, only to find after exchanging contracts on the sale 
that a substantial ERC was payable. The error was corrected a few days later,  and I 
consider an appropriate award would be £200.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN54944434Clydesdale said it had no comments to add. 
Mr L said I hadnt adequately considered that Clydesdales mortgage offer was made only a 
few months prior to redemption. At the point the offer was made he already had more BTL 
properties than the eight  allowed by Clydesdale and that, at that time,  would  have been  
outside its lending  criteria. Therefore the porting option shouldnt  have been included in the 
offer. 
A customer given a mortgage offer was entitled  to assume  that he met lending criteria.  
Clydesdale had said that during those months its criteria didnt change. It wasnt  unusual  for 
lenders to withdraw the porting option  from mortgage  offers  if an applicant didnt meet  
lending criteria.
He wouldnt have agreed the sale had he not been told that porting  wasnt  an issue  before 
marketing the house.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree that its not unusual for lenders to withdraw the porting option from mortgage  
offers if an applicant doesnt  meet  lending  criteria. And Mr L hasnt produced  any evidence to 
back up this assertion. 
Its easy to see why removing the option  would be unusual. The question isnt whether an 
applicant meets the criteria for porting at the time the mortgage product offer is made. The 
question is whether he meets them at the time he asks to port. This could be several  years  
later. 
I dont agree that a customer is entitled to make any assumption, particularly in the light of 
the wording: if you meet all of our lending criteria when you ask to port.
Neither is there any evidence that Clydesdale told Mr L that porting wasnt an issue before 
he started marketing the house. Ive listened  to all the calls and none of them  establish this.
Im not therefore persuaded to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr L £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5494443