K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the amount of time DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  Company 
Limited took to accept  Mrs Ss claim. They would like the cover to be backdated. 
The policy is in joint names,  but Ill mostly just refer to Mrs S. Mrs S has also been  assisted  
by a representative, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all submissions as having come  from 
Mrs S herself.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. 
Mrs S was looking  to pursue her former employer at an employment tribunal. She made a 
claim to the underwriter of her legal expenses insurance (LEI) A. A declined the claim as 
they said the events leading  to the claim pre-dated the policy.
So, Mrs S then contacted  DAS (who were her LEI provider at the relevant time) to make  a 
claim. The claim was first submitted on 11 June 2018 and cover was ultimately  confirmed 
from 15 August 2018 onwards. Mrs S complained,  she wanted the legal costs shed already 
incurred to be covered.  
DAS explained  that the policy  excludes  costs before a claim has been accepted, but they did 
acknowledge there had been some  delays. They offered £100 compensation for the impact 
of the delays but maintained that they wouldnt backdate  the cover  to before 15 August  
2018. 
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  didnt think  it should be 
upheld. In summary she didnt think costs  prior to notification of the claim were  covered. She 
also wasnt persuaded that it was necessary for Mrs S to continue to incur  costs whilst DAS 
were considering acceptance  of the claim (including during the delays). Whilst the complaint 
was with our service DAS increased their compensation  offer to £250. Our investigator 
considered this fair. 
Mrs S doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy says:  Please do not ask for help from a lawyer or anyone  else before we 
have agreed that you should do so. If you do, we will not pay the costs involved even if we 
accept the claim.  Further  to this listed under exclusions it says: Costs and expenses 
incurred before our written acceptance  of a claim. 
I dont think this is an inherently unfair term. I can quite  understand why Mrs S initially  
approached A in the first instance. But until the claim was made  to DAS, I dont think  it 
would be fair to expect  them to disregard the above policy  term and to cover any costs.  
Ref: DRN57812542I also wouldnt expect DAS to cover the claim from when they were first notified of it. It was 
for Mrs S to show  she had a valid claim  this would include evidencing it met the 
requirements of the policy such as having reasonable prospects of success. There is likely to 
be information required and its common for a legal  assessment to be made  to establish 
prospects. And whilst Id expect an insurer to progress things without delay, it isnt 
reasonable to expect  this all to happen within a few days. 
Ultimately, DAS received  confirmation as to the prospects of success (and the signed terms 
of appointment  from Mrs Ss solicitor)  on 15 August 2018 and accepted  the claim from that 
point onwards. DAS themselves accept that there were delays and have offered £250 
compensation for the impact  of this. So, all that remains to be decided is whether that is fair 
or if they need  to do more. 
Im satisfied that the policy  is clear that costs  incurred before the written acceptance of a 
claim are excluded.  But, if a policyholder has court  (or tribunal) deadlines to meet and needs 
to take certain  actions  to protect  their legal position, there are occasions  where  it might  be 
fair and reasonable to ask the insurer to consider these costs.  Particularly  in cases  like this 
where the insurer is responsible for some  delays. 
In this case the letter sent to Mrs S by DAS acknowledging her claim on 25 June 2018 
makes clear  that they still needed to check  that your claim is covered. I dont  think  this 
could reasonably be interpreted as saying  that costs before that confirmation would be met. 
But Mrs S continued  to incur costs  with her lawyer  around this time. 
Our investigator asked  Mrs Ss solicitor (who is also the representative on this complaint) 
about the costs  incurred  between 11 June 2018  (when the claim was first made) and 15 
August 2018 (the date from which DAS have accepted the claim). These are described as 
updates to the clients, requests for essential  information, explaining the response  lodged, 
instructing Counsel  to provide an opinion  
If Mrs S wanted to rely on her insurance  policy to meet her legal costs,  she needed to await 
DAS confirmation  that her claim was covered. On the evidence  provided, Im not persuaded 
the costs prior to 15 August 2018  were incurred  to avoid prejudicing Mrs Ss legal position.  It 
appears that her solicitor  was instructed to continue with the claim, despite cover  not yet 
being agreed with DAS.  In these circumstances, I dont think  it would be fair to tell DAS to 
ignore the policy  term relating to costs  incurred before written acceptance of the claim.  
I acknowledge there were important dates  in relation to the legal action of both 14 and 21 
June 2018 and that some legal work would have been involved in meeting those deadlines.  
But given that DAS were first notified of the claim on 11 June 2018, its unrealistic to expect 
that cover  would have  been confirmed in time for either of those dates  even if everything 
had gone smoothly  without  any delays.  This is particularly the case given the work involved 
in evidencing  the claim meets the requirements  of the policy and with Mrs S wishing to use 
her own solicitor who had to complete a report as well as negotiate and agree  terms of 
appointment with DAS.  
I agree  that there were  avoidable delays which DAS are responsible  for. But for the reasons 
explained above, Im not persuaded they need  to backdate cover beyond 15 August 2018. 
DAS have offered  a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
by the delays. I think this is fair in the circumstances and if it hasnt already been paid, Mrs S 
should contact  DAS to arrange this.
Ref: DRN57812543my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 December 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5781254