K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way that their claim for various issues under their 
building warranty has been  dealt with by Society of Lloyds.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  their property in May 2009 with the benefit of a warranty provided  by 
Lloyds. Numerous defects became  apparent once  they had moved in. They  consulted  
solicitors in September 2009 who wrote a letter listing the issues  they had. But before the 
letter could be sent to the builders, they went into liquidation. In 2010 Society of Lloyds took 
over dealing with any outstanding issues that were covered  under  the warranty. At the time 
Mr and Mrs C made  their complaint, they said the following issues hadnt been resolved:
The problems with the heating in the house.
A leak coming from the roof of the property  which was affecting their daughters
bedroom.
The problem with the garden which had been  ongoing since theyd moved  into the
property.
As regards  the heating, Mr and Mrs C said that there had been  a continuous problem with it. 
The heating wasnt sufficient particularly on the first floor. It affected their sons  bedroom 
particularly. Over the years Lloyds had carried out reviews  and repairs of the system. 
Eventually it was decided that the room was so cold because  of a possible lack of insulation. 
Lloyds arranged to investigate the roof void and it put in extra  insulation,  but it said it had no 
further liability.
The roof was repaired and Mrs C has advised us the problem has been  resolved. Some 
repainting needs to be done.
The garden was noted as being waterlogged and sunken in 2009. An underground  pipe was 
identified as being broken  and it was repaired then. Mr and Mrs C said the problems with the 
garden still remained. In particular  they were concerned  about  metal spikes sticking  out of 
the grass  and the fact that the lawn was still in a poor condition and waterlogged in places.
Over the time Lloyds has dealt with the matter, it offered total compensation of £1,450. Of 
this Mrs C says they accepted a payment of £800 but not for distress  and inconvenience  
they considered  it to be recompense for excessive  heating bills and only accepted  it on that 
basis. They  refused to accept two other  payments of £500 and £150.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that an independent surveyor  be 
appointed to look at the three issues. The surveyor was appointed. In his report  his 
recommendations were:
For the heating,  to have a CIBSE (Chartered Institute of Building Engineers) accredited  
specialist engineer carry out a report into the system. And to carry out an inspection of 
the insulation  in the cavity  walls.
The roof repair was satisfactory. Lloyds should pay the cost of internal redecoration.
Ref: DRN50987262In respect of the garden,  he didnt think it was excessively waterlogged. He recognised 
the metal  protrusions were dangerous. He identified  that the garden was built on the top 
of an old tennis court and there might be parts of the old court like fencing and tarmac  
which could be contributing to the garden not draining properly. He recommended  that 
Mr and Mrs C have further tests  carried out to establish if that were the case.
Lloyds said it would  carry out the cavity  wall testing  but would only carry out work it was 
liable for under the policy. It didnt think further  testing of the heating system was needed 
until after the insulation  test. So far as the garden  was concerned, it said it wasnt  liable 
under the policy  to deal with it. It was only liable in respect of defects to the housing  unit, and 
gardens didnt  form part of the unit. It also said that under the policy there  was an exclusion 
for landscaping or garden features.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision. These were my findings:
I should  point out first of all the limitations  of Lloyds  liability  in this case. I have no doubt 
that the builders  did a poor job in several  areas. Its tempting to believe that once the 
builders went into liquidation,  Lloyds would take over all their liabilities. But Lloyds is only 
liable to the extent set out in the warranty. It appears that there  were  a number of snagging 
issues the builder  hadnt  dealt with at the time it went  into liquidation. Regrettably those 
arent covered under the warranty so Lloyds has no liability to put them right.  I shall deal 
with the three remaining  issues  looked  at by the independent surveyor.
garden
The damage to the garden was reported  to the developer  (builders) during the first two years 
if the warranty  the Defects Insurance period.  During that period the warranty says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Defects Insurance Period against 
the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying  any Defect in the Housing Unit for which  the 
Developer is responsible  and which  is discovered  and notified  to the Developer during the
Defects Insurance Period
The Underwriter shall have no liability unless:
c) the Developer has failed to carry out such repair, replacement or rectification work due to 
its Insolvency.
I understand that in 2009 the builders carried out a repair of a drainage  pipe which Lloyds 
has said resolved  the problem.  But Mr and Mrs C insist it hasnt been resolved. But I dont  
think the garden itself is part of the housing unit. Our investigator has listed the elements in 
the policy as comprising the Housing Unit and gardens arent listed as one of those 
elements. She argued that because it involved drainage and underground  drainage  that the 
Policyholder is responsible for maintaining is one of the elements that are part of the 
housing unit, it should be covered, I dont  think that the general drainage  of the garden is 
part of the Housing  Unit. In my view it refers to the drainage  system,  namely  the pipes and 
drains. The actual  underground pipe has been fixed.
But more  importantly there is an exclusion to any clam under the defects insurance:
Ref: DRN50987263The Underwriter shall not be liable to the policyholder for any:
1 external landscaping or garden  features. 
There isnt a definition  in the policy of landscaping  but I have been referred to the Oxford  
dictionary definition which is
The process of making a garden  or other piece of land more attractive by altering the 
existing design,  adding ornamental features and planting trees and shrubs.
But on a basic level, turfing over a piece of land and creating a lawn is landscaping. And 
most new builds  wont  have any landscaping or garden features more extensive  than that. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs C may not have added  to that but this was a piece of land that 
had some basic landscaping  carried out. Im afraid  that I dont agree that the exclusion 
doesnt apply.
Mrs C argues that the exclusion doesnt  apply anyway, as that only concerns the Defects  
Insurance period. The claim in my view does come  under the Defects Insurance. That is 
because the issue  with the waterlogged lawn was reported in 2010.  There was a meeting at 
the property on 24 September 2010.  A conciliation report was drawn up shortly afterwards 
and notes standing water in garden. It also says that this area of claim has been  resolved.  
Mr and Mrs Cs contention is that it hasnt been resolved. But the issue remains the same.  It 
relates to a matter reported in the first two years, so the exclusion still applies.
Arguably the debris and protruding metal are a different issue. Despite the solicitors  letter  
referred to, it was never sent, and I cant see that that matter  was reported in the first two 
years. So it would come under the structural insurance, which  applies in years three to ten of 
the warranty. The cover  is:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to 
the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect  of:
1) The cost of complete or partial  rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which  has 
been affected by Major Damage.
The essential elements of major damage  are that it must relate to Destruction of or physical 
damage to any portion  of the Housing Unit or a condition requiring immediate remedial 
action to prevent  actual  destruction  of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit
In either  case caused by a defect in the design,  workmanship, materials or components of 
the Structure;  or the waterproofing  elements of the Waterproof Envelope  (again that refers 
to the house itself).
The Structure refers to the housing unit. I cant see that debris  under the lawn affected or 
caused damage to the Housing Unit.
There is the point  that Lloyds  had accepted  that work would have to be done to the garden 
so it would be unfair after all these years to tell Mr and Mrs C to deal with the matter 
themselves. Ive noted the meeting at the property in 2010. Ive reviewed all the business  
files. The only reference to the garden was that Lloyds advised that the waterlogging had 
been sorted out by the repair of the pipe. I cant see that it ever agreed  that it was liable to 
do any work to the garden. If Mr and Mrs C understood differently and can show me 
Ref: DRN50987264evidence of that, I would invite them to do so in response to the provisional  decision. I take 
the point however that Lloyds didnt  refer to the exclusion in the policy  until 2017. I will take 
this into account  in deciding the compensation to be paid.
On the evidence Ive seen  I dont  think Lloyds has any liability for the garden.
leak in the roof 
I note this has been repaired.  There is some  redecoration to be done in respect of water  
staining. Lloyds  should either arrange  for this to be done or to pay for Mr and Mrs C to have 
the work  done.
heating
Firstly as regards the insulation in the roof void, I note the surveyors  report which  indicates  
that this had been done to a depth  of 100mm. He recommended this be increased to 300mm 
but pointed out that the regulation that applied at the time the house was built only required it 
to a depth of 100mm. Therefore Lloyds isnt liable to carry out any more insulation  of the 
roof void.
The surveyor also recommended that a more  detailed review by a suitably qualified CIBSE  
accredited Mechanical Engineer rather than a heating engineer or trades person be obtained 
to confirm the adequacy of the system and any existing defects, whether age or design 
related and propose an appropriate long-lasting solution.
He further said it would be prudent to establish what the insulative performance  of the cavity 
walls was using a borescope in conjunction  with a thermal imaging camera.  Lloyds hasnt 
objected to this but suggests that the insulation be inspected first. If the insulation  in the 
cavity walls needs work done  to it, presumably if its covered by the warranty  Lloyds will do 
that  I shall make a direction to that effect. But in any case I think  it should still carry out the 
review of the central heating in the way recommended. So far the tests have been  carried 
out by a plumber/heating engineer rather than in the way recommended by the surveyor. 
Again if any work is needed under the terms of the warranty Lloyds should do that.
compensation
Lloyds has said that until tests are done on the heating, its liability for compensation cant  be 
established. I dont  agree. I think I can assess the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
Mr and Mrs C over the years.
Theres no doubt that the major issue is the heating.  A number of different tests  and work 
were done  on the heating. I note that in March 2013 the question of carrying out tests to the 
insulation was raised by contractors dealing  with the case  for Lloyds if Mr and Mrs C were 
still dissatisfied with the work/reports being  carried out then. Yet it took a further three years 
for the insulation to be looked at and remedied. I can understand that Mr and Mrs C didnt 
want their child to sleep  in a cold room.
I also think there were delays in carrying out the roof repairs. And whilst I dont think Lloyds 
is liable  for the garden, I nevertheless note that it didnt explicitly  say it wasnt covered until 
2017.
Ref: DRN50987265Mrs C says they accepted  the £800  compensation towards excessive fuel bills. But Ive seen  
no evidence that the bills were excessive. The compensation  was offered for serious delays 
and I shall take it into account. Overall  given that the problems  caused  a lot of inconvenience 
to Mr and Mrs C, my view is that a total payment of £3,000 is fair and reasonable. Lloyds 
has paid £800  so should pay a further £2,200.
responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds had no further comments to make  and was happy to accept my decision.
Mr and Mrs C say:
When they moved in the area was dry and it wasnt  until thered been  rainfall  that the 
problems with the waterlogging and debris  were noticed. By then they were aware that 
the company was likely  to go into liquidation.
They feel that Lloyds  should have noted the problems with the garden when it did 
inspections. They point out ath he debris  is from an old tennis  court and query who has 
the liability for this.
They are concerned about  subsidence  and future insurance.
Further problems have arisen following inspection  of the heating.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said in my provisional findings this matter, of the waterlogging, was first reported in 
2010 under  the terms of the warranty. So the exclusion relating to the garden still applies 
and I still think that whether it relates to drainage or other issues in the garden  it still comes 
within that exclusion. So Im afraid that even  if the debris problem had been  reported in the 
first two years it still wouldnt be covered under the warranty.  And the terms of the policy do 
clearly require that the damage be reported  to the developer within the first two years  and 
dont provide for any late reporting of it.
I set out in my provisional findings above why the damage wasnt  covered in the structural 
insurance period.  I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs C and Im afraid they may have to fund 
the removal themselves.  But as I said in my provisional findings, the warranty only provides 
cover in certain circumstances. It doesnt  make Lloyds generally liable for the failings of the 
builder.
I understand their point  about the initial inspections by Lloyds, but those inspections are 
done for the builder/developer and dont  guarantee the quality of the building.  They  are only 
done at certain  stages  of the build  and would concern inspection  of the structure  of the 
house.
If there is subsidence which affects  the main structure of the building  they may be able to 
claim under the warranty until it expires  or thereafter under their home insurance. They 
should seek advice  from their home insurer if they are unsure about  their insurance position.
Ref: DRN50987266If there are further problems with the heating  system  Mr and Mrs C should  take those up with 
Lloyds. I cant deal with them  in this decision.
Overall I remain  satisfied  that my provisional  findings are correct. They now form part of this 
final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and direct Society of Lloyds at its expense to:
Arrange for a borescope test in conjunction with a thermal imaging camera of the cavity  
wall insulation in the cold bedroom.
Arrange for a full review by a suitably qualified CIBSE accredited Mechanical Engineer  to 
confirm the adequacy  of the central  heating system and any existing defects,  whether  
age or design  related and propose  an appropriate long-lasting  solution.
Following receipt of those reports,  to consider any further  work that needs to be done  
under the terms  of the warranty, to the insulation and/or the central  heating.
I further require  Society of Lloyds to pay:
A further  £2,200 compensation to Mr and Mrs C and
For the cost of the redecoration work following the roof repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5098726