K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr R says     
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI when he applied for a credit card in June 1996. 
This decision only relates to the PPI sold with credit  card account  ending 1838. 
Mr R has also complained  about  a credit  card account ending 5030. That complaint is being dealt 
with under a separate  reference number.
background
In 1996 Mr R applied  for a credit card from Lloyds. At the same time he was sold a PPI 
policy. The policy  covered  Mr R against  not being  able to work due to an accident, sickness 
or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the PPI could have  paid a monthly  
benefit equivalent to 10% of the outstanding  balance of the credit card for up to 12 months. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive first considered if its likely Mr R was given a fair choice about  whether to add PPI to the 
credit card account.
Lloyds has been  able to give us a copy of the original credit card application form signed by 
Mr R in June 1996. There is a section headed  Optional Features,  one of the features  within  
this section is the option to add PPI to the account by ticking  a box. And I can see the box 
has been ticked. I can see another option to request a PIN number has also been ticked 
while three other boxes  in the Optional Features  section  have  been  left blank.
Mr R has told us he didnt tick the box to add PPI to the account.  Ive thought about this. 
Neither Mr R nor Lloyds has been  able to tell us how the credit card was applied for. The 
application form may have been completed  during a branch visit. Or it may have been a 
leaflet Mr R picked up in a Lloyds branch, completed and returned.
In any event I dont  think  the tick in the PPI box looks significantly different to any of the 
other ticks on the form. So I dont think its likely Mr R completed the form himself leaving the 
PPI box blank, only for someone  else to tick it later.
Its possible the card was applied for during a branch meeting, in which case  it may be that a 
Lloyds representative  completed the form for Mr R during a discussion about the credit card 
application. The Lloyds  representative wouldve asked Mr R questions about his 
circumstances and requirements. This discussion wouldve included  the PPI section. But 
then its likely the form would be passed  to Mr R for him to check and sign. And Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence  that its likely the Lloyds  representative ticked the PPI box after    
Mr R signed the application.
Ref: DRN50499292The PPI remained on Mr Rs account  for some time. The PPI premiums would have 
appeared on Mr Rs statements as purchases each  month. If he had not asked for or wanted 
the PPI Id expect  him to have questioned the premiums at an early stage. But Ive not seen 
any evidence that he did.
Taking everything into account  I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember  this 
after so many years.
Lloyds has told us it isnt sure how the policy  was sold and neither is Mr R. If Mr R picked up the 
application form and completed it himself,  then Lloyds had no obligation to check the policy  was 
right for him. It only had to give him clear information so he could decide for himself. 
But if the application was completed  during  a branch meeting, its likely Lloyds would have 
recommended that he take out PPI. And in that case itd have needed to make  sure it was right for 
him. And itd still have  had to give Mr R clear information about the policy.
So Ive assessed  the complaint as if it Mr R completed the credit card application  in a branch 
meeting. That means Lloyds had a responsibility  to check that the PPI was right for him.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Rs circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example Mr R 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  Hes told us he was working 
and he didnt have  any medical conditions that wouldnt have been  covered.
After so many years  Mr R couldnt  be clear  about  whether  his employer provided him with sick pay. 
But the PPI policy wouldve  paid out a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 
months. Which is probably  longer than Mr Rs employer wouldve paid him if he couldnt  work. And 
itd also have paid a monthly benefit if Mr R had lost his job. So I still think  hed have found the PPI 
useful if he couldnt  work.  
So I think Mr R had a need for the PPI cover and I think the policy  Lloyds recommended  was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it shouldve told Mr R about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
Mr R has made some  other points. Hes told us he became  unemployed and missed  some 
payments on his credit card. Mr R told us that showed he wasnt aware of the PPI. But I think  he 
was aware of the PPI at the point of sale and it appeared  on Mr Rs statements so it could be Mr R 
simply forgot  he had taken it out, but I wouldnt uphold the complaint on that point.
Ref: DRN50499293And I dont  think it would be reasonable to expect  Lloyds  to ask everyone  who missed a credit card 
payment if they had become unemployed or unwell.
Mr R has said he eventually asked Lloyds whether he had PPI on his credit card and when he 
found out he did he tried to make an unemployment claim. Mr R told us Lloyds  turned  down  his 
claim because  he was unemployed. Lloyds has checked its records and told us it cant  find any 
record of a claim or attempted claim made by Mr R. It could be Mr R contacted the insurer  directly.  
In any event it seems odd that the insurer would turn down a claim for unemployment due to Mr R 
being unemployed when  thats part of the cover the policy provided. If Mr R thinks  he had a claim 
turned down unfairly he should contact the insurer as he may be able to make  a backdated claim.
Mr R raised the point that when he missed payments on his credit  card,  the PPI should  have been 
cancelled as the terms and conditions from that time say that the cover would end if premiums 
were not paid. Mr R says he therefore  should have all the premiums refunded in full from when he 
missed payments on his credit card. But the PPI premiums are charged  to the credit card. So even 
if Mr R failed to make  his credit card repayments,  the PPI premiums would still be paid and the 
premiums added to his credit card balance as purchases. So I dont agree with Mr Rs point that 
the PPI premiums should be refunded  from when  he missed  credit card repayments.
Mr R also complained about the delay  in handling his complaint. He originally complained  in 2015 
but didnt get a full response  to his complaint until 2018. But I can see Lloyds did reply originally in 
January 2016  to give Mr R a partial response to his complaint. It explained it couldnt give a full 
reply as it was waiting for guidance from the Financial  Conduct Authority over the issue of 
undisclosed commission. There were  also some delays and some confusion  in responding to other 
aspects of Mr Rs complaint. Lloyds has offered to pay Mr R £100 for any trouble and upset these 
delays caused  him and I think  thats  fair.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC should pay £100 to Mr R (if it has not already done so) for any trouble and upset 
it caused Mr R by delays  or errors it made when handling his complaint.
   
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont award  
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject 
my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5049929