K821x#15complaint
Mr M t/a S (a limited company) is unhappy with the information received from
Treelyn (Insurance Services) Limited about the ability  to make a claim under a legal
expenses insurance  (LEI)  policy.
For simplicity, Ill refer to Mr M throughout my decision as he is the sole director  of S.
background
In April 2013, Treelyn sold Mr M a business specific insurance policy  which included a LEI
policy. That policy  was renewed without amendment in April 2014.
Mr M, in his personal capacity, owned  a building - which incorporated  his business premises
as well as a flat which  was situated above the business premises  (the building). Mr M says
in 2014 a gas pipe was attached to the front elevation of the building. He says this was done
by the leaseholder of the flat, without his consent (the dispute).
Mr M says that when he notified Treelyn of the dispute, Treelyn referred  the matter to his
then buildings  insurer  as the business  specific insurance policy it had sold him didnt
include buildings insurance.  The broker whod  arranged his buildings  insurance said that
policy wouldnt cover  the circumstances  of the dispute. And it didnt  include  a LEI policy.
Mr M then sought legal advice and incurred  significant legal costs  by commencing legal
action against  the leaseholder regarding the dispute.  The dispute was settled by way of a
consent order dated May 2018.
Mr M says Treelyn had given him the wrong information when hed contacted  it to advise of
the dispute. He says it shouldve advised  him to make a claim on his LEI policy  rather  than
referring him to the buildings insurance  provider at the time.
Treelyn accepts it directed Mr M to his buildings insurer. It says that was the appropriate
course of action as it hadnt brokered the buildings insurance policy  only the business
specific insurance policy. It also says the LEI policy that Mr M had in place, between
April 2014 and April 2015, wasnt relevant  to the dispute.
Prior to the settlement  of the dispute,  in August 2017, Mr M attempted to make a claim on
the LEI policy that was in place between April 2014 and April 2015. That claim was ultimately
declined by the underwriter of the LEI policy on the basis that it had been notified of the
claim two and a half years  after the policy had lapsed.
However, subsequent  to Mr M making  a complaint  to Treelyn about the advice it had given
him and bringing  his complaint to us, the underwriter has agreed to pass  the claim Mr M
made in August 2017 to a panel  solicitor firm to advise  whether the dispute  constituted  an
insured peril under the policy. And, if so, to establish  whether  the claim had reasonable
prospects of success.  Its also said it will be assessing whether its position has been
prejudiced by the legal proceedings initiated by Mr M in the years prior to August 2017. As of
the date of this decision, the panel  solicitors firm hasnt provided  its assessment.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. He said Treelyn shouldve referred Mr M to the
LEI provider rather than the buildings insurer. He asked Treelyn to pay Mr M £400 for
distress and inconvenience and to consider the claim in line with the policy  terms. When
doing so, he asked it to arrange  a legal expert to consider the prospects of the claim and if
Ref: DRN54879602prospects were reasonable, he said Treelyn should meet the claim in full. Our investigator
subsequently said Treelyn should  make enquiries with the relevant underwriter to decide  the
best way forward.
Treelyn didnt agree. So the complaint was passed  to me to consider  everything  afresh.  I 
issued my provisional decision on 11 March 2019  explaining in more detail why I was 
planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint. If anyone had any comments  or any more  
information - for me to consider, I asked that this be sent to me within  14 days.
Mr M replied and, amongst other  things, said: 
 hed notified  Treelyn in 2014  about  the dispute,  not June 2015;
 hed complained to the Legal Ombudsman about  the law firm initially  instructed  to 
represent him in legal proceedings  regarding the dispute and its possible it might be 
held liable  for some of the initial fees it incurred regarding a claim for forfeiture  of the 
lease; and
 the compensation Id proposed for distress  and inconvenience was unreasonably 
low.
Treelyn also replied and, amongst other things, said:
it didnt agree that it had given inconsistent accounts about what  Mr M told its 
representative in June 2015  about  the dispute;
theres no evidence  that supports the position  that the conversation with Mr M was 
anything other than an informal discussion,  exchanging  vague  details not relating to 
his business for which it arranged  cover;
the conversation  with Mr M in June 2015  was in a social  context and didnt amount to 
professional advice;
enquiries shouldve  been made when Mr M first instructed his solicitor  as to whether 
there was any LEI cover in place  and the LEI provider shouldve been notified  of the 
claim then;
the LEI policy in place between April 2014 and April 2015 wouldnt have covered the 
dispute given  that it had been ongoing for some time regardless of whether any legal  
costs had been incurred at that stage; 
it hasnt been  provided with any details  of the legal costs  incurred  by Mr M when 
pursuing legal proceedings regarding the dispute;  
compensation in the sum of £500 for distress and inconvenience  is disproportionately 
high; and
an annual interest rate of 3% should be applied rather  than the 8% I planned  to 
award when asking Treelyn to put things right in my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint.  
Ill explain  why.
the date Mr M told Treelyn about  the dispute
I think its more likely than not that Mr M notified Treelyn about the dispute in June 2015 and
not April 2014,  as Mr M says. Thats because Mr M has given a detailed  account of what  he
did once he discovered  the gas pipe had been  fitted. He says:
Ref: DRN54879603In 2014 after being told to go to the buildings insurer  I contacted  the then insurance 
brokers who brokered the then buildings insurance policy  regarding  the pipe. As it 
was so long ago I cannot give details  what they advised but I do remember  them not 
being helpful as there  was no legal expenses cover  on that policy. That is when I 
sought advice  from my solicitors
The solicitors firm in question has confirmed  Mr M first instructed them to act in the dispute
in mid-July 2015. They have no evidence of Mr M discussing the matter with them before
2015.
Mr Ms account implies that he sought  advice from his solicitors shortly after speaking to
Treelyn about the dispute, and the broker for his buildings insurance. So, I think  its most
likely he notified Treelyn about  the dispute  around one month before taking  legal advice - in
June 2015. I think  thats more likely than Mr M speaking  with Treelyn  and waiting over a year
to take any kind of legal advice.
I also note the screenshots Treelyn has given us  which show the activities  which  took
place on Mr Ms account in 2014 and 2015  make  no mention of Mr M informing them  about
the dispute. And the broker of his buildings insurer at the time, although recalling a 
conversation about the dispute, has no record of the actual date Mr M spoke to them  about  
the issue.
what did Mr M tell Treelyn and what  should it have done?
Ive taken into account what Treelyn has said in response to my provisional decision. But Im 
satisfied that it hasnt been very consistent about  what Mr M told it during his conversation 
with one of its representatives.  Its given differing accounts at various times. 
Its said Mr M mentioned: there was a potential  dispute involving  a tenanted property which  
was brief,  informal and not intended to lead to a formal notification ; and enquired about the 
cover he had in place - as opposed to instructing us to make a claim.
But this isnt consistent with other accounts which suggest it understood Mr M as enquiring 
about whether  he had LEI and was seeking assistance in this regard. Its mentioned  he 
enquired about  legal  expenses cover for the...dispute  and that he notified  us of the 
dispute
Further, Treelyn accepts it advised Mr M to contact his building  insurer  as it says the dispute
didnt relate  to the policy it had sold him in April 2013  and renewed in April 2014.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied Mr M did notify Treelyn of the dispute and that
he did so because he wanted Treelyn to assist making a claim about the dispute. Im
satisfied Treelyn also understood Mr M was telling it about the dispute for that reason. Thats
why it (as it transpires, wrongly) referred  him to his buildings insurer.
At the time Mr M notified Treelyn  of the dispute,  the business specific policy  which included
the LEI policy  had already lapsed.  But as Treelyn had brokered that policy  for Mr M, it
shouldve been  familiar  with its terms and the cover  it provided. And Im satisfied that it
shouldve directed Mr M to the LEI provider to make  a claim. Had it done  so, I think its fair to 
presume that Mr M wouldve done  that  rather than contact the buildings  insurer   as he 
was advised to do.
Ref: DRN54879604Although theres  a term in the LEI policy excluding claims which arent  notified  during the
period of insurance, I think its more likely than not that the LEI provider wouldnt have 
applied that exclusion  if it had been  notified  of the claim  around June 2015. Thats
because it wouldve been told about  the dispute  only two months after the policy lapsed and, 
at that stage, theres nothing to suggest  that the claim wouldve been prejudiced by the late
notification. Mr M hadnt sought legal advice at that stage nor had he commenced legal
action, or incurred any legal costs.  According to Mr M, hed spent time in 2014 trying  to
communicate with the leaseholder and getting  access to the flat (without success)  and
liaising with the local council and planning departments. That doesnt appear  to be an
unreasonable course of action.
Ive taken into account Treelyns comments about  when Mr M instructed his solicitor in 2015, 
it shouldve made  further enquiries about  whether Mr M had LEI cover. And that theres 
nothing to say that Mr M didnt have LEI attached  to his buildings  insurance  at the time. 
But Ive seen an email  from Mr Ms buildings insurance broker. He says the underwriter of 
the buildings  insurance policy has confirmed that policy didnt  include  LEI and that it was in 
place from 16 June  2011 to 16 June 2015  and didnt include LEI. So even if the solicitors 
firm instructed by Mr M had asked him about  LEI, given what  Mr M had been told by the 
broker whod  arranged  the buildings insurance  and that hed been directed down that route 
by Treelyn rather than referring him to the LEI provider of the policy  it had arranged  (and had 
been renewed in 
April 2014)  its likely Mr M wouldve  reasonably  said he didnt have LEI.  
did the LEI policy cover  the dispute?
Treelyn says the dispute  wouldnt have been covered under the LEI policy  because it didnt
relate to the premises from which the business operated  from; rather it related to the flat
above the business premises. But the building  which  comprised the flat and work premises
- was owned by Mr M in his personal capacity, and he rented the work  premises  to the
company of which he was the sole director.
The LEI policy covers:
civil action relating  to material  property which is owned by you or for which  you are
responsible following any event which causes or could  cause  physical damage  to
such material property or any nuisance or trespass.
you is defined as persons  or companies  named in the insurance schedule
The policyholder was Mr M trading as the company  hes the sole director of. So as
Mr M owned the building  not just the premises from which  his business operated   it
wouldnt have been fair and reasonable for the LEI provider  to have declined the claim on
the basis that the trespass, nuisance and / or physical damage wasnt caused to material
property owned  by the person or company named in the insurance schedule. Particularly as
material property isnt defined under  the policy.
So Im satisfied that the dispute was capable of being covered under  the LEI policy.
the impact on Mr M.
As Treelyn gave Mr M the wrong  information  when hed notified it of the dispute, its deprived
Ref: DRN54879605him of the opportunity to make a claim under the policy  which  has, potentially, resulted in
Mr M needlessly paying  for legal  representation.  And if the prospects of Mr M succeeding  in
a claim were  reasonable, subject to the remaining terms  of the policy, Mr Ms legal costs
wouldve been covered by the LEI provider.
Mr M has told us he was initially  advised  by the solicitors firm he instructed to pursue a
claim of forfeiture of the lease against  the leaseholder, if they refused to remedy the
breaches under the lease. Mr M says he was initially advised that this was the only option
available to him - but was later advised  to amend his claim to bring  a trespass  claim.  As
such, I dont think  its fair to hold Treelyn responsible for all and any costs  Mr M incurred
relating to the claim for forfeiture of the lease   including the costs of the leaseholder which
Mr M was ordered to pay in July 2017. Thats because if hed made a claim on the LEI policy
about the dispute in June 2015  and that claim  was considered to have reasonable
prospects of success - its likely the law firm appointed by the LEI provider wouldve claimed
nuisance and / or trespass from the start rather a claim to forfeit the lease.
I accept Mr M went to the additional  trouble  of having to needlessly contact his
buildings insurer to check whether he was covered under that policy  and to then find a law 
firm to act on his behalf. And that Mr M wouldve been worried about the escalating  legal 
costs he faced  which  he was ultimately  responsible for. This couldve been  avoided  at 
least initially   if hed been able to notify  the LEI provider of his claim and it had appointed a
representative to assess the prospects of him succeeding in his claims. Ive taken into 
account what Mr M and Treelyn have both said in response to my provisional decision but 
Im satisfied that, given  the distress and inconvenience Mr M went through,  £500 fairly 
compensates him for this.
Mr M says because  of what Treelyn did wrong he was unable to focus all of his
time and effort  running his business.  He also says he had to take money out of the business
to pay his legal costs. As such his business started  to become less profitable  and,
eventually, it ceased trading.  As a result  he says hes been unable  to start a family, has
faced homelessness and has lost his reputation in his particular industry.
I appreciate Mr M wouldve been  extremely upset  by the collapse of his business. Ive taken 
into account what hes said in reply to my provisional decision  but I dont think  it would be 
fair to hold Treelyn responsible for the downturn  in his business.  Nor do I think I can 
reasonably ask it to financially compensate him for the loss of profits   and eventual 
cessation of his business. Theres likely to be many  factors behind this. And ultimately, Mr M 
did instruct  a solicitors  firm to represent him in his claim  albeit at his own cost - so they 
wouldve carried out much  of the work  needed  on his behalf.
I also note Mr M has told us that he moved his business from the building because he was
concerned about  the health and safety  implications of the gas pipe. As a result  he lost
significant rental income that his business was paying to himself as the freeholder of the
building. He says if an injunction had been  applied for, and the pipe removed, he wouldnt
have needed to do this. But theres nothing to say that had the LEI provider been notified  of
his claim in June 2015  and appointed a legal  firm to represent him, the claim wouldve
concluded  or the pipe wouldve been  removed  - any sooner. So its likely that he wouldve
chosen to relocate his business  even  if hed made  a claim on the LEI policy  and that claim
had reasonable prospects of success.
putting things  right
Ref: DRN54879606I understand an assessment on whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success  is
currently being carried out by a lawyer  with particular experience in property disputes.  So
long as that assessment is being  carried out based on the information that was available  in
June 2015 then that assessment can be relied  upon to assess  whether the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success.
Alternatively, and only if that assessment isnt being made based on the information  that was
available in June  2015, Treelyn should provide  Mr M with details of three suitably  qualified  
solicitors or barristers  to give an independent legal opinion within 14 days from the
date we notify it that Mr M accepts this decision.  Such solicitor  and / or barrister should have
particular experience in dealing with property disputes  in particular  trespass and /or
nuisance. Within 21 days from Mr M confirming his preferred solicitor / barrister, Treelyn
should instruct that person to advise on what the prospects of Mr M succeeding  in a claim
against the leaseholder for property damage  and / or nuisance  and / or trespass (the
claims) wouldve  been back in June 2015, based  on all the information that was available  at
that time.  The cost of this advice should  be met by Treelyn.
If any further clarification or information  is needed  about Mr Ms claim, the instructed
barrister / solicitor should refer back to Mr M for this; thats what I wouldve expected the LEI
provider to have  done if Mr M had made  a claim under his LEI policy  in June 2015.
If the assessment shows Mr Ms claim wouldve  had reasonable prospects of success
 Treelyn should pay:
A. the legal costs incurred by Mr M in pursuing  the legal action which  resulted in 
the court order dated 23 May 2018, together with any disbursements  incurred 
by him, including any court fees, barrister  costs and surveyor costs in pursing 
that claim and complying with the schedule which  forms part of that court 
order. Thats because if the claim did have reasonable prospects of success  it 
follows Mr M wouldn't have incurred  these costs. Mr M should provide a 
breakdown of his costs  to Treelyn along with confirmation  of the costs he paid 
his solicitors firm, and when. 
For the avoidance of doubt the costs  awarded  against Mr M by the court in 
respect of the initial claim to forfeit the lease - as set out in the order dated 
July 2017  should be excluded from the amount of any costs that might be 
payable to him by Treelyn. So should  the costs he incurred pursuing that 
action. 
Treelyn has queried how much those costs might  be. Without knowing the 
amount of costs incurred  by Mr M pursuing  a forfeiture claim, Im unable to 
confirm. But any costs  payable to Mr M by Treelyn shouldnt exceed  the 
indemnity amount of £100,000.
B. simple  interest at a rate of 8%* per year from the date Mr M made the various
payments to the solicitors firm set out in A. above, which are related to the 
dispute, until Treelyn reimburses Mr M for these. Im satisfied that this rate of 
interest is fair and reasonable. Its in line with the rate of interest  this service 
usually applies and is in line with interest rates applied by the county courts.  
No matter the outcome of the assessment on prospects, Treelyn  should pay Mr M £500 for 
the trouble and upset its caused him for the reasons set out above. That amount should be 
paid within  28 days from the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision.  If it pays 
Ref: DRN54879607later than that it must  also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision until 
the date of payment at 8% per year simple*. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr M t/a Ss complaint. Treelyn (Insurance Services)  Limited  should  do what Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M t/a S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If Treelyn  (Insurance Services) Limited considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs
to take off income tax from any interest  paid, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken  off. It
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5487960