K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance  Society Limiteds (L&G) decision to 
decline a claim made  under an income  protection insurance policy held by his employer.
Background
Briefly, Mr H first went absent from his occupation  as a programme manager  in September  
2017 after suffering a transient ischaemic attack (TIA). I gather he remained off work until he 
retired in 2019.  
Mr H returned some claims paperwork to L&G in early March 2018 but his employer didnt  
submit all the claim papers L&G wanted until around six weeks  after that. To qualify for 
benefits under the policy he had to be incapacitated, as defined  in the policy  terms, 
throughout the deferred period of 26 weeks and beyond. 
L&G declined the claim as it didnt consider Mr H met the policy  definition  of incapacity. In its 
final response letter of January  2019 L&G said, among other things, that the information we 
have received to date confirmed that symptoms  would not prevent him from engaging in a 
return to work with the right support being provided. It also felt it had been prejudiced by the 
employers late notification of the claim.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended  the complaint be upheld, 
in part at least. He believed L&G had acted  unfairly in declining the claim.  He asked it to pay 
the claim (with interest) from the end of the deferred  period  until August 2018  during which  
period he felt the evidence showed  Mr H remained prevented from returning to his own 
occupation. The investigator also asked L&G to pay Mr H £250 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its handling  of the claim had caused  him.
L&G didnt agree with the investigator and provided further comments  on the available  
evidence. Mr H believed his claim should continue beyond August 2018 and until his 
retirement due to his ongoing health  problems (including a more recent diagnosis of heart  
disease). The investigators opinion remained unchanged, so the case  was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to emphasise  that Im aware the parties disagree  over what the evidence  
means for the claim. Ive thought carefully  about what theyve said and Ive reached a 
decision based on the balance of the evidence as I see it.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Some relevant policy  terms
The policy definition of incapacity that applied to Mr Hs claim included  the following:
 incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing the essential  
duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred  period.
Ref: DRN59871722The policy goes on to say the benefits start immediately after the end of the deferred period 
subject to L&Gs receipt of:
An absence notification in the format required by L&G; and
Satisfactory evidence  that the insured members incapacitated as per the policy 
terms.
L&Gs decision to decline the claim
Im satisfied that Mr H was in a relatively senior  position when he went  off work sick. His role 
involved a high level of responsibility and demanded the ability to deal with a number  of 
projects at the same  time.  Ive taken that into account when considering what the evidence 
says about his ability to perform  the essential duties of that occupation. 
In summary,  theres little doubt that Mr Hs TIA in September 2017 left him incapacitated, at 
least initially. What happened  in the weeks and months that followed, however, is less clear  
 at least, from L&Gs perspective.  
I can see that Mr H was continually signed  off work by his GP from the date the TIA occurred 
and beyond. So, his GPs  been consistently supportive of his absence  from work. Weve also 
been provided with additional reports of Mr Hs health. These primarily include one from his 
treating consultant stroke physician  dated  May 2018. In it, the consultant said Mr H didnt 
require physical rehabilitation but that hed suffered from significant fatigue  and low mood.  
The plan was to refer Mr H for emotional  support.
Although its arguable the consultant didnt expressly say Mr H wasnt able to work, I believe 
that was their view.  For example, the consultant  said that when Mr H was well enough  to 
work, that a phased  return would be appropriate  because of his significant fatigue and low 
mood.  
We also have reports from an occupational health advisor dated February, March and May 
2018. The advisor said in all three  reports that Mr H wasnt  fit to return  to work in their 
professional opinion. His lack of stamina  was highlighted as a particular  issue  with regard to 
him going back to work.
In the advisors  report of July 2018,  they said they couldnt predict  when Mr H could return to 
work. Hed attended counselling since their last meeting and found  it beneficial, but he was 
still prone  to anxiety  issues. The advisor didnt offer him any further appointments. 
In August  2018,  L&Gs rehabilitation specialist spoke to Mr H over the phone to discuss, 
among other things,  his current symptoms and his prospects for returning  to work. The 
specialist said Mr H reported  no lasting  physical effects from the TIA but he said he was 
suffering with anxiety  and low mood. The specialist discussed Mr H having  cognitive 
behavioural therapy (CBT) but that Mr H felt the counselling hed already had was sufficient. 
The specialist believed Mr H was fit to return to work, albeit with help to reintegrate on a 
phased basis.  
Overall, I think the medical  evidence  shows that, on balance, Mr H was prevented  from 
returning to work from the date of the TIA until August 2018. Equally, I think  it also suggests  
to me that he was no longer prevented from returning to work beyond  that date.
Ref: DRN59871723When any benefits should start from and late notification
I understand L&Gs concerns over when, and how, it was notified of the claim. For instance, I 
see that, technically, it wasnt provided  with the evidence it wanted such that would have 
allowed it to start paying benefits immediately after the end of the deferred  period. It seems 
Mr Hs employer didnt send this evidence until around four weeks  later.  
That said,  I can see that Mr H provided  all the evidence that he could well before the end of 
the deferred period. So, the delay seems  to have been down to his employer rather  than 
him. Since he appears to be the ultimate beneficiary of the policy held by his employer, I 
think it would  be unfair for him to lose out as a result  of actions beyond his control.   
As such,  I think L&G should consider  the start of the claim as immediately following on from 
the end of the deferred period in March 2018.
Ive taken into account L&Gs argument that its been prejudiced  by the delay  since it was 
denied the opportunity to offer Mr H CBT at an earlier stage. But we cant be sure that L&G 
would have intervened in such  a way and that the intervention would have resulted in Mr H 
being able to return to work sooner than August 2018. 
Mr Hs heart  disease
In March 2020, Mr H told us hed been  diagnosed  with inoperable heart disease in 
November 2019.  He said his cardiologist  confirmed a direct link between  that condition and 
the TIA he suffered  in 2017.
Mr H suggested this was the underlying cause of the fatigue,  anxiety and depression  that 
continued to render him unable to work.
The evidence Mr H refers to post-dates the events surrounding this complaint by well over a 
year. And I havent seen any information to support what Mr H says. More importantly, 
however, neither has L&G as far as Im aware.
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair for Mr H to provide the evidence he has to L&G 
for it to consider in the first instance. If Mr H is unhappy with L&Gs  response, it would  be 
open for him to refer the matter back to us as a separate complaint.
Summary
Taking everything into account,  I find that the evidence indicates Mr H was incapacitated  
from September 2017 until August  2018.  In my view, L&G didnt deal with the claim fairly and 
should put things right, which includes making  a compensatory payment for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited to:
Ref: DRN59871724accept that Mr H was incapacitated under the terms of the policy  from the time he 
stopped working  in September 2017  until August 2018 and pay benefits in line with 
the policys remaining  terms  and conditions; and 
take the start of the claim  to be 26 weeks after the date Mr H first went absent from 
work, notwithstanding that his employer submitted  the claim late; and 
add interest to these  payments at the annual rate of 8% simple, calculated from the 
date each payment  was due until the date of settlement; and 
pay Mr H £250 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused; plus
consider any evidence provided  by Mr H regarding  his diagnosis of heart disease and 
how that impacts, if at all, on the claim bearing in mind  both this final decision  and the 
policy term and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5987172