K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  charged  him a higher interest rate than he 
had agreed and the car had a faulty heater. He also complained  the dealer had charged him 
£200 for a service  but it closed  down  without carrying it out.
Background
In July 2018 Mr S acquired a second  hand car funded by a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. He says the dealer told him the agreement was for three years with an APR of 
26%. He says the dealer  told him his printer wasnt working and he could  sign an electronic  
contract. The dealer said he would need to pay a deposit of £400, but when Mr S said he 
could only afford £200  he was told the balance could be put on to the finance agreement. 
The dealer  said he could have the car immediately if he agreed to pay £200 when his next 
salary came  in.
However, when the paperwork  arrived it was for five years with an APR of 55.4%. He tried 
going back to the dealer, but he was fobbed off and shortly after it closed down. A few weeks 
after buying  the car he complained to Moneybarn and it said he had signed  the contract and 
rejected his complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didn't  recommend it be upheld.  He didnt consider  the business  had 
misrepresented the agreement  and suggested  Mr S take it up with the dealer. He noted Mr S 
had complained about the heater and Moneybarn had offered to have this diagnosed,  but Mr 
S hadnt responded to that offer.
Mr S didnt agree and set out in some detail what had happened when he bought the car. He 
said he had originally intended buying another car, but it turned out not be suitable.  He had 
signed some  paperwork  for that which he was told was a consent form. He said the 
electronic documentation didnt work and he believed what  he had been  told by the 
salesman that he had entered  into an agreement with an interest rate of 26% payable  over 
three years.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I asked Moneybarn about the dealer. It confirmed  the dealer had ceased trading and it had 
financed four agreements with it in 2018.  Moneybarn said it had carried  out a check on the 
dealer when it started some nine years  previously.  It said it also monitors brokers  and it 
added that Mr S was in considerable  arrears having  only made two payments yet he was 
making use of the car.
While I appreciated the position taken by the business I said I found Mr Ss detailed 
testimony persuasive. He had told us in some detail  what happened and he had done so on 
several occasions without variation. I thought there  was some confusion at the very least  
and I accepted that Mr S was led to believe that he would only be paying a rate of 26%. He 
had explained  that he thought this was excessive,  but he needed a car and recognised  his 
credit history  meant  he would  have  to pay a higher rate.
I said it was unfortunate  the dealer disappeared  so soon after the sale and we were unable  
to obtain any information from him. Although I couldnt say for certain, it was quite possible 
Ref: DRN50019472he was keen to clear his stock prior to going out of business and that he rushed  the process 
as Mr S had said.
I noted that the onus was on the broker to ensure that the information about the agreement 
was made  clear to the customer and I couldnt be satisfied  that the one signature on the form 
was sufficient to show  that due diligence  was followed in this case.
I said that Mr S has had use of the car and it was only right that he should pay for that, but I 
believed the agreement should be revised to use an interest rate of 26%. I thought  it only 
right that Moneybarn amend the agreement  from its inception and recalculate the monthly 
sums due based  on a rate of 26%.
It was unfortunate  that Mr S hadnt kept up payments  and I recognised he is in significant 
arrears and would be even after the proposed revision of the agreement. He would need to 
agree a regular  monthly payment to clear his debt. I thought it would be appropriate for the 
business to forgo any interest arising  out of Mr Ss failure to make  regular  payments  while  
the complaint  remained  unresolved given I considered his complaint should  be upheld.
Finally, I didnt consider  that Moneybarn could be held responsible  for the service  which  the 
dealer failed to provide.
Moneybarn didnt agree  and said the decision was unprecedented. It said he had signed the 
agreement and his verbal testimony was in complete contradiction to the signed document.  
Moneybarn said the rates it offered  were  higher than mainstream  lenders as its customers  
generally had a lower  credit score. It said that initially Mr S had raised concerns about the 
quality of the car and the issue  of the interest rate wasnt raised until later. It said he had 
arrears of over £4,000  and had been  driving  the car while not making  payments. It said it 
would work  with him to assist dealing with his financial  difficulties.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the position taken by Moneybarn and I have some sympathy with it, but after 
due consideration I have  concluded my provisional  decision should remain unchanged.  I will 
explain why. I would  add that I have given  this decision much thought and I appreciate the 
forbearance of both parties  while  I did so.
The process of offering  and agreeing finance  is important and goes beyond  a single 
signature. The dealer was acting for Moneybarn and it is reliant on the dealer following due 
process and making  it clear to the customer the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
According to Mr Ss testimony the process  was rushed and he was told he would only pay 
£200 per month for three years.  The key to this complaint  is what happened when the loan 
was being offered and accepted. I remain unpersuaded that the due process  was followed 
correctly.
Mr S has supplied  credible testimony  which has remained  unchanged  over the course  of this 
complaint. He says that he signed  the back of the form without seeing the details  of the 
interest rate and other  terms as he relied  in the information provided by the dealer.   Shortly 
afterwards he realised  he was paying  more than he had expected. It would have  been  
helpful if we could have the dealers testimony,  but it disappeared  a few days after the sale 
Ref: DRN50019473and failed to provide the free service which it offered as part of the sale.  Its behaviour in this 
regard gives cause for concern and it is reasonable to conclude it may have been  less than 
diligent in its handling  of the agreement.
Moneybarn has indicated  that it carried out checks on the dealer some  nine years  ago when 
it began  working  with it. I have no other information about the dealer and whether the same 
personnel remained  in place over the nine years  or what training they received. I can see 
that in the light of all the circumstances it is reasonable  to conclude that they may have been 
cavalier in their handling of the agreement  as has been claimed by Mr S.
I agree  it is for Moneybarn  to set the interest rates for its lending and it may be that its rates 
are higher  than other mainstream  lenders.  Indeed, it seems  to me that the rate charged  was 
particularly high. That said, I believe Mr S understands his financial situation was such that 
he would  pay a higher rate and he presumed  the rate of 26% he thought he was getting was 
reasonable. It is certainly higher than mainstream  lending rates.  He has made it clear that he 
didnt consider a rate of over 55% to be fair or took into account his ability to pay the monthly  
instalments. 
I have noted Moneybarns final response  letter dated 28 November 2018 in which it refers to 
three areas of complaint,  the missing service, a problem  with the heater and the higher than 
expect interest rate. It would seem that he raised  the interest rate at the same  time as the 
other issues or very soon thereafter.
On balance I remain of the view that Mr S was misled about the interest  rate and the loan 
should be recalculated using the rate he was told he would be charged.  I appreciate that Mr 
S may not be in a position  to repay his arrears and I recognise Moneybarns offer to help 
insofar as it can. I consider beginning the loan afresh with the rate of 26% would allow  both 
parties to reach an equitable income. I consider my decision is sufficiently clear to allow both 
parties to reach a fair resolution and I have allowed some leeway so that a fair agreement  
can be reached.
I would remind the bank of its obligation to deal with Mr S positively and sympathetically  in 
helping him resolve  his financial difficulties.  If Mr S does not consider the bank to have met 
its obligations in the future, he may be entitled  to bring a fresh  complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to recalculate the loan using  an 
interest rate of 26% from inception and that it forgo any interest  arising out of his failure to 
maintain regular payments. It should  also work with Mr S to arrange a payment plan to 
address his arrears.  It should also remove any adverse entries  it has placed on Mr Ss credit  
file. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November  2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5001947