K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way a claim for damage to their home has been handled 
under a building guarantee. East West Insurance Company Limited took over the policy from 
the previous insurer.
background
Mr and Mrs K bought their home in 2000  which came with a 10-year guarantee. Shortly  after 
moving in they noticed cracks  appear  in the garage brickwork. The previous insurer 
authorised work to be done in 2000,  2004 and 2005, which included  a movement joint. 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs K noticed further cracking  and a surveyor inspected  the damaged  area. 
His conclusion was that there was no evidence of foundation movement and the damage 
didnt support there being movement in the foundation. He said the damage was likely 
attributable to thermal movement and normal  expansion and contraction  of materials  during 
temperature changes. 
The insurer  agreed  to extend the building guarantee for the garage brickwork for a period of 
five years.  This period  ran from July 2013 at the latest, although I think  the period was earlier 
when the cracks were  repaired. In August 2018, after five years had expired, Mr and Mrs K 
contact East West to report  the recurrence of cracking. East West declined dealing  with the 
matter as the five-year extension period had ended.
Our investigator didnt  think East West had acted unfairly. He explained that the original 
problem had been shown to be due to thermal cracking (materials  expand and contract in 
changing climatic conditions), had been repaired and the guarantee extended as a gesture 
of goodwill.  Given Mr and Mrs K hadnt  reported further cracks until after the expiration  of the 
five-year period, the investigator didnt think East West had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said the problem was a structural defect as the foundation 
beneath the double garage hadnt  been  properly constructed, and they think East West 
should instruct a non-intrusive survey. The investigator disagreed given  the expiration of the 
extended warranty period.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The building guarantee period ran until 2010 and principally covered major damage caused  
by a latent defect. Of course, the policy is more detailed and has various  terms and 
conditions. But in this complaint, there isnt an issue taken that the cracked brickwork 
warranted repair under  the policy during the initial period.
However, the issue is now about what  Mr and Mrs K reported in 2018 after the five-year  
extension ended. The building guarantee is for a defined period of ten years and 
Mr and Mrs K benefited from an additional  five years  on the garage  brickwork. That period 
ended and no further damage had been reported. So, in principle Im not persuaded  East 
West has acted unfairly  in keeping to the extended period of the guarantee and not 
considering the claim. 
Ref: DRN54903652Ive considered carefully whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Mr and Mrs K 
believe there is a structural defect in the garage foundation but theres  insufficient  evidence 
of this. The surveyors report  in 2013 specifically states that in his opinion  there is no 
structural movement and the cracking  is a result of thermal movement. Thermal  movement  
is generally a consequence of changing climatic conditions and not the result of a defect. 
Mr and Mrs K benefitted from 15 years of guarantee  and as such, Im satisfied its 
reasonable to expect  that they bear the responsibility of demonstrating the damage is a 
result of a structural defect. While they think East West should  instruct a non-invasive  
survey, for the reasons given I dont think that would be fair of me to require such of East 
West. 
Mr and Mrs K were  fully aware  of the issues theyd  previously had with the garage and of the 
five-year extension to the guarantee. If the cracking  had appeared within that period, I think it 
reasonable to have  expected them to raise  the matter with East West. And if it had occurred, 
but wasnt reported, then I think thats  prejudiced East Wests ability  to assess  the cause and 
put things right as economically as possibly. 
Overall though, as Mr and Mrs K have provided insufficient evidence of a defect, and they 
didnt raise an issue until after the extended period, Im not persuaded that East West has 
acted unfairly by not considering their claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5490365