K820x#14complaint
Mr Q acquired  a vehicle in October 2015,  by means  of a 36 month  hire agreement with Lex 
Autolease Ltd. He complains that, when  he sold his vehicle at the end of its hire period, Lex 
charged him a disposal fee. He wants Lex to refund this fee.
background
Mr Qs hire agreement  entitled him to sell his vehicle,  acting  as Lexs agent  and subject  to 
certain conditions. He said that Lex had not provided clear and accurate information  to him 
about when a disposal fee would  be charged. 
Lex had written to Mr Q, telling him that the fee will be applicable to all regulated  contracts 
and all contracts from January 2016 onwards. Mr Q interpreted this statement to mean the 
fee did not apply to agreements made  before January 2016. And, because  his agreement  
was entered into in October 2015,  he would not be charged the fee.
When Mr Q complained to Lex, it responded saying  the terms and conditions  of his 
agreement made clear that he would be charged  a disposal  fee, if he sold his vehicle. Mr Q 
then referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator did not think the complaint should  be upheld   although she acknowledged  
Mr Qs frustration with the correspondence he had received  from Lex. 
Our adjudicator saw how Mr Q could  have misinterpreted the words used by Lex. She 
appreciated that his agreement was dated 2015   but it was a regulated agreement,  and the 
words meant a disposal fee applied to all such agreements (as well as to non-regulated 
agreements from 2016 onwards). And so she was unable to say that Lex was wrong to 
charge this fee.
Mr Q disagreed with our adjudicator. And so this complaint was referred for review  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar  reasons.
I agree  that the correspondence Mr Q received would have been  clearer,  if it had not 
referred at all to non-regulated contracts. But I think the correspondence makes much  more 
sense when read in the way that our adjudicator interpreted it, than when read in in the way 
Mr Q interpreted it. 
I also sympathise with Mr Q. But, if he was unsure about how to interpret the 
correspondence, or about the meaning  of regulated and non-regulated contracts, he could 
have asked Lex for clarification. 
Alternatively, Mr Q could  have referred  to his signed  agreement, where reference is made:
At the top of page 1, to it being  regulated  (by the Consumer Credit Act 1974)
In the Key Financial Information on page  1, to a Sales Disposal Fee (of 2.5%)
In clause 13 on pages 3 and 4, to the terms under which disposal of the vehicle could 
take place 
Ref: DRN55144322my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5514432