K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that the overdraft charges applied to her account by Bank of Scotland  plc 
(trading as Halifax) were excessive and that she was in financial hardship at the time.  
background
Between May 2001 and May 2007 Ms R had a current account with Halifax. In May 2018 
she complained  to Halifax as she believed the charges that had been applied to the account 
were excessive and she had been unable  to manage the account. 
In its final response letter  Halifax said as part of its process it was only required to look into 
charges applied within the past six years. It said as Ms Rs account was closed before this 
time it couldnt investigate  her concerns.  Halifax gave referral rights to this service indicating  
that we may not be able to consider the complaint as it may have been brought too late. Ms 
R was unhappy  with this so she brought  her complaint to this service.  
In his first view the investigator  said we cant consider Ms Rs complaint. Ms R provided 
evidence to this service that she had brought the complaint to Halifax in 2007. While  Halifax  
had acknowledged  the complaint at the time it wasnt a final response letter  and Halifax  was 
unable to confirm  that one was sent. So the investigator was able to look at the merits of Ms 
Rs complaint. Having done  so he didnt think Halifax needed to do anything further. 
Ms R disagreed and asked for a decision  from an ombudsman. She said at the time she was 
in severe financial  hardship and felt the bank  was punishing her with excess fees which 
made the situation worse. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our rules, which we are required by law to follow, say we cant normally deal with a 
complaint it its referred to us more than six years  after the event complained of; or, if later, 
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware or ought  
reasonably to have  become aware  that they had cause for complaint. 
Ms R has provided copies of two letters sent to her in 2007 by Halifax.  The first, sent in 
March, acknowledged  receipt of her complaint about  charges  debited to her bank  account.  
The second  was a holding letter sent a few weeks later informing Ms R that Halifax  was still 
investigating her complaint. Halifax hasnt been able to provide a copy of the final response 
letter so Im satisfied the complaint wasnt concluded and Ive been able to look at the merits 
of the complaint. 
I will have to disappoint Ms R however, as I find that Halifax  hasnt done anything wrong so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
As the investigator  has explained we dont  normally  look at the fairness of the level of fees 
charged by banks. This is because the Supreme Court has said the amount of any fees cant 
be challenged simply because a customer thinks they are too high. But I can look at whether 
the charges have been applied in line with the account terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN54639342Ive looked at Ms Rs bank statements  from 1 May 2001 to 18 May 2017 as well as the terms 
and conditions as laid out on the bank statements and in the terms and conditions document  
provided by Halifax.  
Between May 2001 and May 2003 Ms R kept her account in credit for the vast majority of 
time, only occasionally dipping into authorised overdraft  territory. From then on Ms Rs 
account remained in overdraft. On 18 September 2003 Ms Rs agreed overdraft limit went up 
from £700 to £1,000.  Within two days Ms R had used the full amount. She deposited some 
money but had reached the limit again  by 15 October. 
A debit  card transaction  debited  on 3 November on the same  day as charges  of £20 had 
debited. These are marked as notified on the statement, indicating  that Ms R wouldve 
received a separate communication telling  her about the charge and when  it would debit. 
These two debits caused her account to exceed  her agreed overdraft limit with her debit 
balance standing at £1,021.44. Ms R deposited some cash in the next few weeks which 
matched the amounts of standing orders she was expecting. This indicates to me that Ms R 
was monitoring her spending on the account. 
Halifax raised the overdraft limit again on 15 December to £1,200 and on 20 December the 
balance of Ms Rs account was £1,191.44.  On 31 December there was an interest  debit, 
again recorded as previously notified, of £15.28 which pushed her balance  over her limit to 
£1,206.72.
Halifax raised the overdraft limit again to £1,250 on 26 January 2004 and Ms R withdrew 
cash immediately taking  her balance to £1,250 overdrawn. The overdraft limit went down to 
£1,200 on 29 July 2004.
From January 2004 to 20 November Ms R received  a number of deposits  and transfers  into 
her account  and kept within  the overdraft limit. On 26 November a cheque  was presented to 
her account  for £700. This took her account  to £1,199.80 overdrawn. The next three debits 
were interest payments, as previously notified,  on 30 November, 31 December and 31 
January 2005   each debit took the balance further past the agreed overdraft limit. 
Between January and August 2005 Ms R largely  stopped using the account except to make 
a few small deposits. But the account  stayed in the unauthorised overdraft  territory.  And Ms 
R continued to have interest  and charges debited.  
Im satisfied the interest and charges have been  debited  in line with the account terms and 
conditions. On the statements each charge and interest debit is noted as being as notified.  I 
havent seen a copy of these letters but Ms R hasnt disputed that she wasnt notified  as all 
the debits are recorded as notified on the statements. So I think its likely Halifax  did notify 
Ms R as per the terms and conditions. 
Ms R has said at the time she was a student  and in severe financial hardship. She says she 
felt the bank was punishing her with excess fees by handling her account badly and unfairly  
which made her suffer even more financial hardship.  She said this was her first bank 
account and she was nave to believe there was any help available such  as the ombudsman 
service. Ms R also disputed she knew what she was doing  and it was unfair to assume that 
of a student. She said she had trouble finding a job and yet was paying  excess charges 
amounting to thousands and left with no money  to live on. She said one time she paid £500 
as a one off fee payment  which was excessive. 
Ref: DRN54639343Im not disputing that Ms R was in financial  difficulty at the time. Indeed Im very sorry to hear 
this was the case and that she had difficulty getting a job. Banks  are required to respond to a 
customers financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.  But they are not obliged to 
refund or suspend  charges or take any specific action.  
Halifax has provided a summary of Ms Rs account.  It details the total amount of money that 
came into and was withdrawn from the account. It also details the amount of interest  credited 
and debited and the amount of fees paid. Over the period her account  was operational Ms R 
paid a total of £343.80  in interest and £142  in fees and charges. This is a total of £485.80. 
So I dont  agree that Ms R wouldve paid a one of fee of £500. Im not disputing that Ms R 
has made such a payment but it wasnt with Halifax on this account. 
There are no contact  notes available from Halifax which may indicate what  kind of 
communication occurred  between Ms R and Halifax at the time. Clearly  there  was some 
because the overdraft is raised  on a number of occasions. But Im not able to say whether or 
not Ms R informed Halifax that she was in financial difficulty. And Ms R hasnt indicated  if 
and when she did so. Although Ms R operated the account in the overdraft territory she did 
make regular deposits and anticipated standing orders by depositing money in order  to cover  
them. So Halifax  would not automatically  be aware  she was having trouble managing the 
account. Halifax would only be able to help Ms R if it was aware or ought reasonably to be 
aware that she was in financial difficulty.  And I havent seen any evidence to support either.
I notice a pattern  of spending where Ms R would spend up to her limit so demonstrating  that 
she was monitoring her spending but that on a few occasions she did not take into 
consideration the fees or charges  due which pushed her over the limit, for example in 
November 2004  when £700  was withdrawn by cheque. Using  or exceeding the overdraft 
limit is not automatically a sign of financial hardship.  As Im satisfied that Ms R was likely 
pre-notified of the charges and neither party has presented evidence  that Halifax  was aware 
that Ms R was in financial difficulty I cant fairly say that Halifax  has done anything wrong so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463934