K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) and life and critical illness  cover  with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Miss B took out a mortgage  protection plan (TMPP) which was designed to protect 
her existing BoS mortgage (the mortgage started  approximately two years earlier) in the 
event she couldnt  work  because  of accident, sickness  and unemployment. The plan also 
protected her mortgage in the event of her death or upon diagnosis  of a critical illness.
The policy cost around £51 a month.
At the time Miss B was employed  and says she was entitled to sick pay  although she cant  
recall the exact  terms. She says she had several thousand pounds in savings  at the time 
and was in good health. Miss B also told us that she had a second job  a casual  job  at the 
time which provided her with an additional income  of about a third of her permanent jobs 
income.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary they said 
they thought Miss B chose and agreed  to take out the cover.  And there was nothing  to 
indicate the plan as a whole was unsuitable  for her given her circumstances at the time.
Miss B disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Miss B was hoping  for, Ive decided  not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Miss B know  she had a choice about PPI?
BoS needed to make sure it presented PPI as being optional.
BoS hasnt been able to provide  all of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  But it has 
provided us with examples of the kind of paperwork that it says was used  in sales  such as 
Miss Bs. And from this I think its likely it was made  clear that PPI was optional.
But in any event and in this particular case,  Miss B took out PPI at a different time to taking 
out her mortgage.  Her mortgage started  in 2007, but it wasnt until 2009 that she took out 
TMPP. Because things  happened at different times, I dont think  Miss B wouldve been under 
the impression  that she had to have the policy. 
Ref: DRN58050752So overall, I think Miss B chose to take out the cover and did so without undue  pressure.
did BoS provide advice?
Its not disputed  that BoS provided advice  and recommended TMPP to Miss B. So it had to 
ensure the cover was suitable for her. And it had to give her enough clear and timely  
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about  whether to go 
ahead with the recommendation.
the advice
As I said above, BoS hasnt provided all of the paperwork Miss B wouldve likely seen at the 
time of the sale. But from what it has provided   including a demands and needs document  
which the adviser appears to have used during the meeting  it appears the adviser  took 
some steps  to ensure the cover was suitable for Miss B. For example it appears  she was 
asked questions about her health and whether she already held insurance cover.
But the evidence  doesnt tell me that BoS took all reasonable steps  including asking 
questions about  Miss Bs sick pay entitlement, or other means she could use to make  her 
mortgage payments  such as savings. So I accept its possible BoS didnt do all that it should 
fairly and reasonably have done when  it provided advice to Miss B.
However, Miss Bs circumstances  at the time suggest that the recommendation for her to 
take out TMPP was ultimately suitable, so it wasnt wrong for BoS to have recommended it. I 
say this because:
The PPI element (accident, sickness and unemployment)
Miss B was eligible for the cover.
she was employed  and in good  health at the time, so she doesnt appear  to have 
been affected by the significant exclusions to and limits on the cover.
Miss B says she had a second  job at the time  a casual role which shed had for a 
number of years. But Im mindful that Miss B only appears to have declared her 
income from her main / permanent  job  this is whats  recorded on the paperwork 
from the time - so its not clear  to me that she told BoS about this. Notwithstanding 
this I can see that Miss B also said that she ceased this casual employment shortly  
after taking out the policy and I think this was likely her intention at the time, so I dont 
think this impacted the suitability  of the cover.
Miss B was likely entitled to some sick pay and she said she had some  savings at the 
time. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and for longer if 
necessary allowing  her to preserve  her savings or delay the need for her to call on 
them. Also she was taking  out a not insignificant amount of debt secured on her 
home, so I still think she had a need  for cover  - I think it wouldve played  a useful part 
in helping to meet  her mortgage  payments should  the insured risks have become a 
reality.
the policy appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make  it unsuitable.
the life and critical illness elements
the life cover was of the level term type, which was appropriate because Miss Bs 
mortgage was interest  only rather than a repayment mortgage. The term and the 
amount of cover were not out of line with that of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN58050753Miss B told us her partner was living with her (I can also see the mortgage was 
guaranteed by a family member)  so I think there was a need for cover  given the other 
parties interest in the asset.
Miss B didnt have  other similar policies  she couldve used to protect her in the event 
the insured risks became reality.
I can see that Miss B has raised a couple  of specific points questioning  the suitability of the 
cover (in particular the life cover element) which I will address later on. 
the information
I can see that Miss B received some  information  about the policy after the meeting  and this 
included its cost. I find it unlikely Miss B wouldve agreed to go ahead  with the policy  without 
knowing something about it. And given she was told the cost in paperwork she received after 
the policy went live, if this was at odds with her understanding  based  on what she was told at 
the time,  I think she mightve  queried it with BoS. 
But the evidence  doesnt tell me whether BoS told Miss B everything she needed  to know  
and in a timely manner  before she made her decision  to take the policy out. For example  I 
cant see that BoS sufficiently highlighted the significant exclusions and limitations of cover. 
So I accept  its possible there were failings here.
But as Ive explained above,  Miss Bs circumstances  at the time show  that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for - she was eligible for its benefits; she wasnt caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover; and it couldve played a useful part in helping  
her to protect her mortgage and ultimately  her home in the event the insured risks became a 
reality - notwithstanding any employee benefits  and other means she had. And in those 
circumstances, I think  more likely than not that Miss B wouldve still taken out the policy  had 
BoS done anything more.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss B has said  including what  shes said about her 
partner not being a party to the policy; and the fact that she wanted a fixed  level of cover for 
a term longer than her mortgage but was told this wasnt  possible.  But these things dont 
change my decision.
As the adjudicator told Miss B, it wasnt possible for Miss Bs partner to be a party  to the 
policy because he wasnt a party to the mortgage   this was part of the policys eligibility  
criteria. I can see Miss B says that when the adviser explained this, she took it to mean  that 
it wasnt possible to have  any policy of this type  not just this particular BoS policy. But Im 
not persuaded that it was reasonable for Miss B to have believed  this. I say this because I 
think BoS paperwork made  it clear  that its advice  was limited to its product range and the 
advice was only in relation to the mortgage.  
Similarly, in answer to Miss Bs point about  her wanting a fixed  level of cover for a longer 
term than her mortgage  BoS provided advice  solely in connection  with her mortgage. This 
was not more general financial advice  and I dont think BoS misled Miss B that it was. On the 
basis that BoS had a suitable product in its range that met Miss Bs needs at the time, it 
wasnt wrong for it to have  recommended  the policy to her. It was not under any duty to tell 
her that there might be a more suitable  product elsewhere.
Ref: DRN58050754final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5805075