K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains Aviva Insurance  Limited incorrectly made a payment to him in relation to his 
contents insurance policy, and that repaying it will cause  him inconvenience.
background 
Mr G had a contents insurance  policy with Aviva,  and it included personal belongings cover. 
In March 2019, Mr G accidentally damaged his mobile phone.  So he made a claim on his 
contents policy, and Aviva appointed loss adjusters to process the claim.  As the loss 
adjusters were acting  on Avivas behalf,  Ill refer only to Aviva from now on to avoid 
confusion.
Aviva accepted Mr Gs claim and thought his phone was damaged beyond economic repair. 
So in April 2019  Aviva  told Mr G it would  provide  him with a replacement phone, which  it 
then sent to him shortly after. 
Aviva called Mr G about two weeks later to say it had valued the cost of a replacement 
phone at £329.95, and it offered to pay Mr G this amount.  Mr G agreed and gave Aviva his 
bank details, and Aviva made the payment to him.
A few weeks  later Aviva realised it shouldnt have paid the £329.95  to Mr G because  it had 
already sent him a replacement phone   so it had settled his claim twice. Aviva  called Mr G 
to explain this and to say hed need  to pay back the £329.95.
Mr G didnt think he should have  to repay  it, so he complained to Aviva.  In its final response,  
Aviva again  said it had mistakenly  settled Mr Gs claim twice,  and that hed need to repay  
£329.95. 
 
Mr G disagreed so he brought his complaint to our service. He told us hed thought Aviva 
had offered him £329.95 because it was the difference in value between  his old phone  and 
the new phone it had sent him. Mr G said he hadnt  asked Aviva  for this payment and that he 
was in a difficult  financial position, so it would  be hard for him to repay it. Mr G said he was 
willing to repay some  of the £329.95, but he wanted  to be compensated for the 
inconvenience Avivas  mistake had caused him.
At this point Aviva offered  Mr G £50 compensation, but Mr G didnt think  this was enough to 
reflect his inconvenience.  After looking into things, our investigator  thought  £50 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. And she thought  it was fair that Mr G was 
willing to repay Aviva,  as it wasnt money he should  have had in the first place. 
Mr G still thought £50 wasnt  enough  to reflect his inconvenience, as he said hed now have 
to budget and work  overtime to repay the £329.95. So his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Ref: DRN54407132Its not in dispute  that Aviva made a mistake in settling Mr Gs claim twice. And I dont think  
its unreasonable for Aviva to ask Mr G to repay  the £329.95 it mistakenly paid him. I note 
Mr G is now willing to repay  Aviva and has contacted it to make  arrangements,  so I wont  
comment further on that here.
Whats in dispute here is what would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for 
the inconvenience caused by Avivas mistake. 
I dont think Avivas mistake caused  Mr G a financial loss. I say this because  in fact Aviva 
overpaid Mr G by mistakenly settling his claim twice, and Ive not seen  any evidence to 
suggest this mistake caused Mr G a financial loss. 
But I think Avivas mistake  caused Mr G some inconvenience. It incorrectly offered this 
money to Mr G and hes explained why he initially thought he was entitled to it. So I think  he 
was upset and disappointed to learn  this was money he couldnt  keep. And Mr G has 
explained that his financial circumstances mean he cant easily  repay it and will have to 
rearrange his financial  affairs  in order to do so.  
I think Aviva  has taken  this inconvenience into account, and so I think  its offer of £50 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore I wont be asking Aviva 
to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5440713