K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) defaulted her account 
without notice.
background
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr W. In July 2018  Mr W was made 
bankrupt. Mr and Mrs W had a joint account with Halifax, which was overdrawn. As a result 
of Mr Ws bankruptcy, Mrs W became solely liable for the overdraft. In August the bank 
closed the account and recorded a default  on Mrs Ws credit  file. It is not in dispute that the 
bank did this without  serving Mrs W with a default  notice,  and without demanding repayment  
of the overdraft. Mrs W discovered what had happened in October,  when she checked her 
credit file, and she complained.
Halifax apologised and offered Mrs W £250 for not serving a default notice. It also refunded  
about £39 in late payment fees incurred since  July. But it did not agree  to remove  the default 
from her credit file unless she first repaid  the overdraft in full within  60 days,  being  the notice 
period to which she had been  entitled. Mrs W did not accept this offer.  She insisted that the 
default should be removed immediately, as it was making it harder for her to obtain credit  
and this was causing her financial  difficulty (and making it harder to repay the overdraft). She 
also said that £250 was not enough compensation, and she asked for the overdraft balance 
(about £2,550) to be reduced  by half. Halifax  did not agree, and so Mr W brought  this 
complaint to our Service, on behalf of his wife.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She thought that Halifax  should  remove  the default 
immediately, with the caveat that it could record a new default if the overdraft was not repaid 
in full within 60 days. She persuaded Halifax to increase its offer of compensation to £450,  
which she thought  was fair. But Mr W did not agree that this went far enough: he asked for 
compensation equal to the entire overdraft balance, to be set off against the debt. And 
Halifax did not agree to remove the default  until this complaint had been fully resolved  it 
wouldnt do it as an interim measure while the level of compensation was being worked out. 
So this complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional 
decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will uphold it, and I will explain why.
It is not in dispute  that an overdraft is repayable on demand, and that no demand was in fact 
made. It is also not in dispute that before an account can be defaulted, a default  notice  must  
be served first, and that this was not done.  Mr and Mrs W have not argued that Halifax would 
have been wrong  to demand full repayment within 60 days, or to default  the account  on 
service of proper notice. Their complaint is solely that these preliminary actions were not 
taken, and so as a result  the default was wrongly  recorded on Mrs Ws credit  file. (Until then 
she had had a good credit score.) That in turn resulted in various  financial difficulties which 
could otherwise have been avoided. They say that Halifaxs  offers  of compensation did not 
go far enough, and that  more importantly   the default should have been  removed  as soon 
as Halifax realised it had been wrongly  recorded without notice. Instead, the default has 
remained on Mrs Ws credit file for months,  while the parties  have been  waiting  for this 
complaint to be resolved  which, as I write this, has been  more than a year.
Ref: DRN59165892I dont think that it was reasonable of Halifax to leave  the default  in place, once its error had 
been pointed out, and to offer to remove the default only once  the overdraft balance  was 
repaid. It doesnt make  a difference that the 60 days deadline was extended by a month  
shortly afterwards. The default should  not have been there at all, because a default  notice 
had not been served,  which was a necessary step before the account  could be defaulted. By 
leaving the default in place, Halifax may have made it harder for Mrs W to borrow money she 
could then have  used to repay her debt. But even if that was not the consequence, once it 
was recognised that a default  notice  had not been served and the default  had been 
incorrectly recorded, there was no excuse for allowing it to remain  in place for a moment  
longer. So I agree with our adjudicators opinion that Halifax  should have removed the 
default straight away. (That, of course, would still have left Halifax free to serve  a default 
notice and record a new default if Mrs W failed to repay the debt in good time.)
So for that reason, I will uphold this complaint. I will order  Halifax to remove  the default 
forthwith. If it wishes to default the account again, it must serve  proper  notice first, and only 
record a new default against Mrs W if she fails to repay the debt by the deadline in the 
notice. And if, in those  circumstances,  Halifax does record a new default, then it would not 
be fair for that default to remain on Mrs Ws credit file until 2026, because that would be later 
than the original default would have expired, if it hadnt been removed as a result of this 
complaint. So I will say that if Halifax registers a new default,  it must backdate  it to 
December 2018,  so that it will expire in 2024.  I have chosen December  2018  because that is 
two months after Mrs W learned about  the original default.
Turning to compensation, I dont think that compensation equal  to half, or all, of the debt 
would be proportionate to Halifaxs error. If Halifax had removed the default immediately, 
then I would have  said that its original offer of £250 was fair. If it had removed the default 
some time later than that, then I would  have agreed  that £450 was fair. But it has now been  
in place for 16 months (counting from when the updated credit  file was published in 
September 2018), so I think  that more compensation  is warranted.  I also take into account  
that Mrs W has not (as far as I know) reduced  the debt significantly since the account  was 
defaulted. The adverse effect on her credit file would have  been  alleviated a little, if she had 
paid back the debt in the meantime, because then the debt would have been recorded as 
settled. But the default marker  would still have been  there.
I wont fix a monthly rate and then multiply it by 16. I will just decide on a figure which  
I think fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience  experienced overall. I currently  think  
£750 is fair.
Mr W has also asked  for his wife to be reimbursed for consequential loss arising  from 
obtaining credit  (to buy a car) at a less favourable rate than would otherwise have been the 
case. Im not minded to do that, because there isnt evidence from the lender of how much 
difference the default made. Also, I dont actually know whether Mrs W could have repaid the 
overdraft in time to avoid  the default,  if she had been given due notice in 2018.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties  by the date below, I intend to order Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to:
Pay Mrs W £750,
Remove the default from her credit file,
Ref: DRN59165893If Halifax wants to register a new default, it must serve  Mrs W with a default notice 
first, and backdate the default  to December 2018.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr W did not agree with my provisional decision.  He said that before he was made bankrupt, 
he had contacted Halifax twice to discuss the overdraft, and had been assured  that the 
account would be passed to its collections department. He suggested that if a new default is 
registered in future, then it should  be backdated to the date of the original default (August), 
instead of December 2018. He objected to my comment about  Mrs W not paying  back the 
debt since the default was registered, because doing so would not have got rid of the 
default, and also because it would have been impossible as the account had been  closed 
and he says Halifax was not communicating with her. He asked how I had arrived at my 
figure of £750,  and said it was not enough.  He said I should  infer that the default was the 
reason why Mrs W could not get a car at a better rate, because that is an obvious  
consequence of a default. He said I should  not speculate  about whether his wife could have  
repaid the debt in time to avoid the default,  because this case  is not about her ability to 
repay the debt,  but about Halifaxs actions.
Halifax said it would accept my provisional decision if Mrs W did too, and it has already 
made arrangements to delete the default marker. But Halifax  said that it only issues formal  
demands, not default notices, for overdrafts, and asked me to amend my decision 
accordingly. And it argued that it was unfair  of me to increase the compensation just 
because the default had remained  in place since the adjudicators  decision,  because after a 
final response letter is issued it is normal practice  to leave things as they are until a final 
decision is received  (if a resolution is not agreed  between the parties  earlier).  Halifax  asked 
for reassurance that the usual practice  had not changed, and pointed out that the delay  
since the adjudicators decision had only happened  because Mrs W had not agreed with it. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I have not significantly changed my 
mind, except about the date for backdating a new default (if there is one).  I will explain why.
I will begin with Mr Ws arguments, in the order they are set out above. I accept that he was 
in touch with Halifax about the debt before he was made bankrupt, and that he did not wait 
until after that before trying to resolve  the matter of the overdraft. However, that does not 
change the fact that an overdraft is repayable on demand, and that Halifax was still entitled 
to ask for it to be repaid  in full, at any time it liked, provided that it gave the 60 days  notice 
required by its own terms and conditions.
If a new default  is registered  against  Mrs W in the future, it should not be backdated to 
August 2018,  because  if Halifax  had given the required 60 days notice, that period  would  
not have expired by then. Mr W only became  bankrupt  in July. Halifax closed  the account on 
10 August, so if it had asked for repayment of the overdraft instead then the earliest the 
default could have taken place is in late October. I originally settled on December instead, 
because that was 60 days after Mrs W learned  about the default. But on reflection, I think  it 
would be fair to backdate any new default to October 2018, because  that would put Mrs W in 
the position she would have been  in if Halifax had given her proper  notice.
Ref: DRN59165894I suggested that Mrs W should have repaid the overdraft  by now because  complainants have 
a duty to try to mitigate their losses  that is, to take such actions as they can reasonably be 
expected to take to reduce the impact  on them  of whatever has gone  wrong.  (I dont think  it 
would have been impossible to contact  Halifax about paying the debt just because  the 
account was closed.)  I did not mean  to be understood as saying that if Mrs W had repaid the 
overdraft, then the default marker would disappear. In fact, I specifically said the opposite:
But the default marker would still have been there.
My point was that a defaulted debt which is reported  as having since  been settled in full 
looks better on a credit  file than one which remains outstanding. I recognise that it would not 
have solved all of Mrs Ws problems, which is why I still proposed increasing the 
compensation. Indeed, my main  purpose in making this point was to anticipate Halifax 
making it, and to deal with it in advance by making it clear that I had already considered it. It 
wasnt meant as a criticism, but Im sorry if it came across that way.
I will not speculate about Mrs Ws ability to repay the debt, but it is not a moot point. It is 
relevant to her claim for consequential loss. I accept of course that a default will certainly  
make it harder to get credit, and that it will affect the interest rate at which credit is offered. 
But if in fact Mrs W could not have avoided the account being  defaulted,  then that would 
mean that Halifaxs error has not been  the cause of any consequential loss, because if the 
default had been correctly  applied  then the loss would still have happened anyway. And if 
she could have avoided  the default   I make no finding about the likelihood  of this either way 
 then the point would still remain that the loss cannot be quantified, because I dont know 
how much  difference  it made to the lenders decision.
The figure of £750  was not calculated according  to any particular  formula, but was simply 
arrived at based  on my experience of assessing  compensation for non-financial loss in 
various cases working at the Financial Ombudsman Service.  I think  it is in line with what we 
would typically award. I realise it is far less than Mr W was hoping for, but I remain  firmly  of 
the view that it would not be proportionate or reasonable to compensate his wife by telling 
Halifax to write off half or all of the debt.
I now turn to Halifaxs comments.  I did not increase the compensation to penalise  Halifax for 
not removing the default marker earlier, and if it came  across that way then I didnt mean  it 
to. But I still have to make an award  which (in my view) reflects the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs W by the default  marker remaining in place, as this is an 
ongoing problem  for her. It is not compensation for Halifax failing to remove  the marker  in 
2019 or 2020, but for registering it in the first place in 2018. The longer it remains  in place, 
the greater the impact  on her. I appreciate  that the marker would have been removed some 
time ago if Mrs W had accepted the adjudicators opinion,  and then the impact on her would 
have been less. But she had the right to ask for an ombudsman to look at her case, and it 
wouldnt be fair to penalise her for exercising that right by capping  her compensation at the 
level which  was appropriate at that time.
Although an overdraft is repayable on demand, I still think a default  notice should normally 
follow a failure to comply  with the demand  before an account is defaulted. However, I wont  
quibble about  that here,  since in the circumstances of this case  I think  the order below will 
give Mrs W fair and sufficient notice.
Ref: DRN59165895my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
to:
Pay Mrs W £750, and
Remove the default from her credit file.
If Halifax wants to register a new default, it must first serve Mrs W with 60 days 
notice, and not register a default  if she clears the debt within that time.  If it does  
register a default, Halifax must backdate it to October 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W (or Mr W on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5916589