K820x#14Complaint
Miss M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd restricted and then closed her account.
Background
Miss M has an account with Monzo. On 3 June 2019, Monzo blocked it until 6 June 2019. 
This meant she wasnt able to use her account  during  that time. Once Monzo had completed 
its review it allowed Miss M to access her account  again, but it didnt explain what had 
prompted the review.  
Following its review Monzo decided to close Miss Ms account.
Miss M says that as a result of the block she was left without any money for weeks  and 
wasnt able to pay her bills. Shes explained  that she has a young  child,  so the block made 
things particularly stressful  for her as she was worried  about being able to provide  food due 
not being able to access any funds.  
Manzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to review Miss Ms account. 
However, it noted that it had taken longer than the 24 hours  it normally takes to complete a 
review. And acknowledged  that this had caused  Miss M some  trouble and upset.  So, it 
apologised and offered Miss M £200 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss M didnt accept  the 
banks offer and brought her complaint to our service. She said £200  doesnt reflect the 
amount of upset she suffered.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ms complaint. He said Monzo hadnt done 
anything wrong  when it had reviewed Miss Ms account and he thought Monzos  offer was 
fair. Miss M disagreed. And asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Im satisfied first of all that Monzo  was within its rights to review Miss Ms account and that it 
was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. Monzo also werent  obliged  to tell 
Miss M why it was carrying out a review of her account  as much as shed like to know. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this complaint, Monzo were also entitled to close  
Miss Ms account and did so in in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. So, 
whilst appreciate this caused  Miss M inconvenience,  I cant say Monzo have treated Miss M 
unfairly when it decided to close her account.
Monzo says it normally takes  24 hours to complete a review  of its customers accounts. It 
has accepted  that it took longer than usual to complete its review of Miss Ms account. 
Monzo apologised and offered Miss £200  as a gesture  of goodwill. I know Miss M says that 
this is not enough to reflect the trouble and upset she suffered whilst her account  was 
blocked, but Ive thought about  Monzos offer and I think it is fair in the circumstances. So, 
Im not going  to ask Monzo  to do anything more. And I will leave it to Miss M to decide 
whether she wishes  to accept that offer.
Ref: DRN50132442My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Monzo  Bank  Ltd to do anything more  to resolve 
Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5013244