K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his wife Mrs C that Santander  (UK) plc trading as Santander 
Consumer Finance  (SCF) didnt make it clear  what type of loan Mrs C was taking out to 
finance a car. Mrs C would like SCF to acknowledge it cannot confirm or deny  if it  mis sold 
the loan. And compensation  of £350 as a contribution towards an unexpected  sum she had 
to pay when she ended her contract.
background
Mr C says Mrs C took out, what she believed to be, a personal loan with SCF in February 
2015 in order  to purchase a used car. He says Mrs C had little time to read the contract, the 
details of which ,were not explained to her.
He says when  Mrs C looked into trading in her car she realised  she had signed a Conditional 
Sale Agreement. He says she didnt realise the finance was attached to the car so when she 
came to sell the car in March 2019 she had to pay off the outstanding amount of £1,182.28 
on the agreement  in order to get her new car. 
Mr C says as a restful there was a three  day delay in Mrs C getting her new car which 
caused a lot of stress and inconvenience.
SCF said it contacted  the supplying  dealership for more information.  Unfortunately none  of 
the original sales  team worked there any more so it wasnt able to get any information  from 
anyone directly connected with the sale. The dealership said it followed a robust sales 
process; it gave sufficient time for any queries to be raised and always  gave a paper copy of 
any documentation. 
SCF concluded there was insufficient evidence to support Mrs C claim the agreement  had 
been mis sold to her. And it felt from the agreement  she signed that Mrs C was aware of 
what she was agreeing to.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He found that by signing the agreement 
Mrs C confirmed she had read and understood it. And the terms of the agreement were  
clearly set out.
Santander Consumer  Finance accepted this view but Mrs C didnt.
Mr C asked if our investigator had checked and reviewed supervision, training and record 
keeping of staff as he had requested.
Our investigator considered this point. He said he had requested  any documentation from 
Santander Consumer  Finance that was relevant to the sale and that would assist with his 
complaint. He added  that he wouldnt have expected training and other  such  personal 
records to be supplied.  He noted  that there  may well be data protection  issues  with 
supplying such information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57555282Mrs C feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate  she is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
I think it is always difficult when consumers rely on conversations at the point of sale of a 
finance agreement  to support their complaints . Its very hard for them  to evidence  what was 
said.
In this case I think SCF has done  its best to investigate Mrs Cs complaint. It contacted  the 
supplying dealership. Its unfortunate that the sales team present when  Mrs C took out her 
contract no longer  work there. So it has had to rely on documentation  Mrs C signed at the 
time. Thats no unreasonable given it had no other information to work  with.
Despite SCF explaining  all of the documentation  that Mrs C would have  seen and where 
applicable signed  such as an explanatory document explaining what  a Conditional  Sale 
was and if it was suitable  for her and the pre contract information sheet which would have 
stated the contract  type it has only be able to give us a copy of the Conditional Sale 
Agreement Mrs C signed. We have  asked if there  is any other documentation for me to 
consider but there isnt.
So on that basis I can t be sure  Mrs  C saw, or signed the other documentation SCF referred 
to. It is however standard  documentation that is usually given to consumers.
So the only information I have to go on is Mrs C version of events  which she was rushed 
and the contract  wasnt explained to her. And the contract she signed. 
Ive looked at the contract. It does clearly state  on the first page that it is a Conditional Sale 
Agreement. I think if Mrs C thought she was taking out a personal loan she might have 
queried this since  it is clearly visible on the first page. 
The contract also states the right of withdrawal from the contract  within 14 days  so if Mrs C 
didnt have time to read the paperwork at the time she could have  done  so later on and 
exercised the withdrawal  option.
The contract also states what the position is if Mrs C were to end it early.  So from that she 
could have been aware that she would owe half of the sum due on the contract if she ended 
it early,  if she had already  paid half of the sums due on the contract  she would have had 
nothing further  to pay assuming she had kept his car in good condition.  
The contract also states that until goods are fully paid for the finance company owns the 
goods. 
So I am persuaded that Mrs C had sufficient information to be aware of the type of 
agreement she entered into. And as I have found  no evidence of mis sale I cant  reasonably 
ask SCF to pay the £350 compensation she has requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ref: DRN57555283Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5755528