K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in July 1997. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs H bought the policy in July 1997.  The PPI was sold to her when she applied  for a store 
card by filling in a leaflet  while in a store.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs H says she wasnt given an option  of having  the store card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  the option,  she would  have declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional  information  Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Hs credit agreement. This shows that Mrs H was 
asked to select whether  or not she wanted  Account Cover which  included  PPI. Under the 
section protect your account now, Mrs H was asked  to place a tick a box if she wanted the 
cover added to her account.  
Looking at the credit agreement  which  Mrs H signed, I can see a tick was placed  in a box 
next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect  my Principles Account with Account Cover 
(subject to eligibility).  Please debit my Account with the relevant premium until further  notice. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Mrs H would have understood 
the Account  Cover,  was optional. And I dont think she would  have selected  the cover  and 
signed the credit agreement  if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Ref: DRN54282772Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs H chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mrs H has told us she would have received three months sick pay from her employer if she 
was too unwell to work.  Shes  also told us that she had some savings, life cover, and could 
have relied on her partner  and family  to help with her store card repayments.
Having thought about what  Mrs H has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means she wouldnt have  found the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs H would have received from her employer and would 
have paid out for longer.  The PPI also would have paid a benefit  if Mrs H was ever made 
redundant and would have enabled  her to use her savings for any other  financial 
responsibilities she may have had.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs H has said about her life cover.  Looking  at the policy  she 
purchased, the main  benefits were accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  So, I dont 
think that having life cover in place shows she had no need for the PPI. And given she had 
life cover in place before she took out the store card, its likely she would  have had this in 
place for other reasons,  not to cover the outstanding balance  of her store card.
Finally, Ive thought  about what Mrs H has said about the fact that she could have relied on 
her family and partner  to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant  that 
the PPI wasnt useful for her. While  Mrs Hs partner and family would want to help, their 
financial situation could  change and so this help couldnt always  be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs H could have  found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5428277