K820x#14complaint
Mr L says that Barclays Bank  UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside a credit  card in 2003.  
Mr L originally took out the credit card with a company called  Egg, which  also sold him the 
PPI policy. Barclays has accepted responsibility for the way Egg sold the policy and for 
handling the complaint, so Ive referred to Barclays  when  talking about  the complaint and 
Egg when discussing the sale itself. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ls complaint.  The adjudicator didnt think  
that Egg had mis-sold the policy.  Mr L didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman  to review 
his case, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account here and Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I explain why below.
In the early part of our investigation, Mr L told us that he applied for the credit card and 
bought the PPI policy during a meeting  with one of Eggs advisers. However, Barclays  has 
sent us evidence to show that Mr L applied for his credit card and bought  the PPI policy 
online. Mr L seems to have accepted this. Hes gone  on to tell us that although  he took out 
the card on the internet, Egg added PPI to his account without any explanation and didnt 
give him a choice to take the card without PPI. 
The policy was optional and Egg had a responsibility to make  this clear to Mr L. Its well over 
ten years  since Mr L applied for his card and took the policy and not surprisingly neither he 
nor Barclays  have  been able to send  us fully detailed personal  notes  from the time of his 
application. However, I have seen an extract from Eggs records  which  show  when  Mr L took 
out the policy and example screenshots of the type of application  Egg says Mr L would have 
completed online.
Egg called its PPI policy Card Repayment Protection and the screenshots show that its 
online application process gave customers a very brief description of the policy and then 
offered them  the choice  to press one of two buttons. The text alongside the first button said:
Yes, I want to protect my repayments.
And the text by the second button  said:
No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or 
lose my job.
I think its highly likely  that Egg followed its normal process with Mr L, that it offered him PPI 
in this way, and that he chose to take it by pressing the Yes  button. I fully accept that Mr L 
may no longer  remember these details, but I think its unlikely that Egg added PPI to his 
account without  giving  him a choice. 
Ref: DRN51086462Mr L initially told us that Egg recommended PPI to him and advised  him to buy it. However,  I 
find it very unlikely that Egg would have made a personal recommendation during an online 
sale. I think its more likely  that Egg sold PPI to Mr L on an information only  basis. This 
meant that although  Egg didnt need to check that the policy was right for Mr L, it still had to 
tell him about  it fairly and clearly  so that he could decide if he wanted it. 
Mr L has told us that Egg didnt tell him about  the policys exclusions or describe its cost 
clearly. I accept that Egg may well not have explained things properly. So Ive looked at the 
policys features and considered what I know about  Mr Ls circumstances when he took the 
policy to see if there  was anything about the policy which was likely to have stopped  Mr L 
from buying it if Egg had been clear. 
The policy had eligibility rules which Mr L met and he doesnt seem  to have been caught by 
the policys main exclusions and limitations.  He also seems to have been able to afford the 
monthly premiums for the policy. As Egg didnt recommend the policy to Mr L, it was up to 
Mr L to decide  if he wanted or needed  the cover it offered.  But I dont think  there was 
anything about  the policy which would have stopped  Mr L buying it even if Egg had 
explained its features  properly.  
I dont think Egg mis-sold  PPI to Mr L, which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to him. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L 
because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium), so it shouldve told Mr L about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mr L, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium,  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5108646