K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Close Brothers  Limited refused to let him reject a faulty caravan.
background 
In April 2017 Mr N bought a second  hand caravan from a dealer I will call M. It cost £9,000  
and was funded by a conditional sales agreement with Close  Brothers. He says it was sold 
as category C because  it had a replacement sunroof which  had been fully repaired. A 
category C caravan is one which has been  written  off by an insurance company and is 
defined as write off, the vehicle  is repairable  but the costs exceed the vehicles value. Can 
reappear on the road. 
About a year later he decided to sell the caravan and a prospective purchaser had it 
inspected and discovered it was category D vehicle. This is defined as write off, repairable,  
but the repair costs  are significant compared with the vehicles value including the delays to 
source parts. Can reappear on the road. Mr N undertook some research and discovered  the 
caravan had been sold by an insurer to a salvage company which presumably repaired it 
before selling it to M.
Mr N complained to M and to Close Brothers that he had been misled  and he also pointed 
out the caravan hadnt been registered  in the Central Registration & Identification  Scheme 
(CRIS) for caravans. M offered to carry out a National  Caravan  Council  (NCC) engineers 
report which would allow the caravan  to be registered. Close Brothers said the caravan had 
been sold on the basis it was a category C write off and as this was deemed to be a worse  
category than D. It said the CRIS  registration  should be done  by the new owner of a 
caravan.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted that the caravan  could  be put 
back on the road legally and category C vehicles  tend to have more  serious  damage  than 
category D ones and so she didnt think Mr N had been materially  misled.  He had suggested 
that the salvage yard hadnt  completed  the sale to M before he bought  it, but our adjudicator 
didnt agree. She said that it seemed that the salvage yard hadnt banked  the cheque  for 
some months after the sale. 
She thought  the offer by M to carry out the NCC report which would allow  Mr N to carry out 
the CRIS  registration  was fair. Mr N didnt agree and said the caravan  had been  advertised a 
category C vehicle with a minor defect of a replaced  sunroof. He believed  he had been sold 
an unroadworthy caravan. He added  that he was told that the caravan was CRIS registered,  
but the number he had been given was the chassis number. He also said he had signed  one 
contract and been  sent a second one showing different dates of manufacture. Finally he 
noted that as the vehicle needed an inspection  to have it CRIS registered M had misled him 
that it had been properly  registered.
Ref: DRN54882082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a caravan, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is clear that Mr N was aware he was buying a caravan  that had suffered damage and it 
would appear  that the price he paid reflected that. He says he was told the damage was to 
do with the sunroof and I have seen nothing to show that was incorrect. What  was wrong 
was the category given by M. However, I cannot see that this would have had any impact on 
Mr Ns decision  to buy it. If anything M suggested  it was in a worse category that it turned 
out to be.
I can see there has been some confusion  over the CRIS  registration,  but I gather  this needs 
to be done by Mr N as the new owner.  For this to happen there needs to be a NCC report 
which M has offered to provide. I appreciate that Mr N says he has lost confidence in M, but I 
dont think the offer is unreasonable. It is visual inspection and will allow  the caravan to be 
registered. I dont  think it necessary  for this to be done elsewhere.  I know Mr N has said he 
hasnt used it much since he has been worried about it being safe, but I have seen nothing  
that would  suggest it isnt roadworthy or usable.
Finally on the issue of the two contracts, it seems that a second one was sent with an 
incorrect date of manufacture on it. That doesnt  invalidate the one signed by Mr N and I 
dont consider it grounds to unwind the contract.
Ref: DRN54882083my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5488208