K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Gain Credit  LLC, trading as Lending  Stream, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about an instalment loan Lending Stream provided  Mrs M in July 2012. 
Mrs Ms loan details  are as follows:
LoanDate taken 
outDate DueDate  
RepaidLoan amountHighest 
Instalment
1 19/07/2012 03/01/2012 04/10/2012 £465.00 £232.50
Our adjudicator thought about  Mrs Ms complaint and felt Lending Stream had lent to her 
responsibly, so he didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M disagreed on the basis that she felt 
Lending Stream shouldve  verified  her expenditure and it shouldve been aware of other loans 
that were visible  on her credit report.  So, the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mrs M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN56265192I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mrs M could sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether  the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
why I think Lending Streams checks were proportionate for Mrs Ms loan
For Mrs Ms loan she needed to repay an average  of £170.50 per month, and a maximum of 
£232.50 during  the term of the loan. 
Ive seen a record  of the information Mrs M provided when she completed her loan 
application. Mrs M said she had a monthly income of £2340.00 and she had regular monthly  
outgoings of £800. This left her with a disposable income of £1540. So, it looked like she had 
enough disposal income to make  her payments under this loan agreement.
At this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable of Lending Stream  to have 
relied on what Mrs M told them  about  her expenditure. It is of course possible that had Mrs 
M taken further lending  then Lending  Stream, as a reasonable lender ought to have carried  
out further, more  in-depth checks. But considering Mrs M only took one loan,  I dont think  it 
had yet reached the stage where Lending  Stream needed to carry out further checks, such 
as verifying this information.
Ive thought about Mrs Ms comments about  what her actual credit  report may have shown at 
the time  that she had other outstanding  lending.  But what I have to consider is the 
information that Lending Stream  may have obtained from the credit reference  agencies, and 
whether this information ought to have  led Lending  Stream to make  further enquires, or 
indeed decline the application. But what I would add at this point,  is the information Lending 
Stream saw wasnt exactly the same as what Mrs M may have  seen on her full credit report. 
 
The information Lending Stream may have  obtained from the credit reference is unlikely to 
have been as detailed or as up to date as Mrs Ms full credit  report,  but Lending Stream  was 
entitled to rely on the information  given  to it by the credit reference agencies.  And, as Ive 
mentioned above,  I dont  think it had reached  the stage where it needed  to verify the 
information that Mrs M had provided  or had made  further enquires with her to establish  
whether she had any existing short-term credit  commitments. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Lending Stream  was made  aware 
of any financial problems  Mrs M mightve been having.  Or anything  that wouldve prompted  it 
to investigate Mrs Ms circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending 
Stream to rely on the information it obtained.
Ref: DRN56265193So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Lending Stream did for Mrs Ms 
loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for Mrs Ms loan was reasonable. So, 
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment for Mrs M, but I want  to assure her 
that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available  to me. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5626519