K821x#15complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the customer service she received from Tesco Personal Finance Plc. 
background
Mrs Rs account has been overdrawn by £795  since June 2018. In October 2018 her father  
transferred £400  into Mrs Rs account  in error.  Hed meant to send it to someone else.  Mrs R 
got in touch with Tesco  promptly to ask them to refund the money to her father. His bank 
also made a payment recall, but Tesco  declined  it. The money wasnt sent back to 
Mrs Rs father until January 2019. 
Mrs R explained that this put a lot of strain  on her relationship with her father and her family. 
She explained hes disabled and suffers from depression.  The situation led to a very 
stressful Christmas  and caused disputes within the family, which  was very upsetting  for her. 
In their final response letter Tesco said theyd followed the correct process as any money  
paid into the account will automatically reduce any negative balance.  They  didnt uphold  the 
complaint but did send  the money  back to Mrs Rs father. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended  Tesco  paid Mrs R £100. He 
said it had taken around nine weeks to send  the money back and he thought  this was too 
long in the circumstances. Tesco didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. They said they could only return funds  which were  available and in this case there 
hadnt been available funds. Tesco said they shouldnt be penalised  as theyve returned the 
money as a gesture of goodwill.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a payment  is credited to the wrong  account the sending payment services provider 
needs to contact the receiving payment services provider within two working days. As long 
as the money  is still available, and the recipient doesnt dispute what happened,  the sender 
should get the money back within 20 working  days.  If its not possible to get the money back,  
for example if its been spent, the sender should  be told this within  the same time period. 
Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint and directing Tesco to pay her £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  I say that because:
Mrs R contacted Tesco promptly to explain what had happened. And her fathers  
bank also contacted Tesco to say the money had been  sent in error. So I think there 
was clear evidence  of a genuine  mistake and Mrs R didnt  dispute  what  had 
happened. She made it clear she wanted the money  returned  to her father;
Ref: DRN56642972I dont think Tesco acted fairly or reasonably  when they declined  to send the money 
back to the sender.  Mrs Rs account  was £795 overdrawn before the money was sent 
to her. I see the point Tesco is making  about  the fact the money was used to reduce 
what was already owed. But I dont think its fair to say that she spent this money  
as she didnt have  a choice as to how the money  was used when it reached her 
account;
I can understand why Tesco applied this against  the outstanding debt, but I have to 
balance this with the fact that Tesco had been  made  aware that this was an error and 
that Mrs R wasnt the intended  recipient of the money. So I dont think  it was 
reasonable to decline  to return the money.  I think the money shouldve been returned  
much sooner than it was. Instead, it took several  weeks.   
Tescos refusal to refund the money led to difficulties in the relationship  between  
Mrs R and her dad. And it caused  issues within the family over the Christmas period. 
I can appreciate this was upsetting for Mrs R, especially  when shed done what  she 
could to get the money back to her father. So Im awarding £100 to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs R by the delay in returning the money and 
the impact this had on her. The compensation should be paid directly to Mrs R rather 
than applied to the outstanding debt. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint against  Tesco  Personal Finance Plc and directing them  to 
put things right by paying Mrs R £100  compensation for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5664297