K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax)  acted unfairly 
and unreasonably when dealing with their mortgage.  They want the balance  of the mortgage 
written off.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Halifax which  was coming  to the end of its term. Mr S 
said that he contacted Halifax on the phone and was given incorrect information  about the 
amount outstanding in January 2019. Mr and Mrs S paid £467.92 towards the balance  and 
then found out that they owed more. They werent happy with the incorrect  information or the 
service given by Halifax.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax. It said that Mr S had told it that he had been  given 
incorrect information over the phone in February  2019 and it couldnt  find any record  of a call 
where Mr S was told the balance was £467.92.  Halifax didnt accept any incorrect  
information had been given as a result. It pointed out that the yearly  mortgage statements 
told Mr and Mrs S how much was due, as did an arrears letter  in January 2019 which  said 
£8,794.07. Halifax  found that several  calls occurred in February  2019  and Mr S was given 
correct information  each time. It said that it was clear that a payment of £467.92 wouldnt be 
enough to pay the mortgage  off in full. Halifax paid £14 for Mr S call costs  trying to resolve 
matters but without admitting any fault.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us and provided evidence that calls were made on the date in 
February given by Mr S to Halifax. Halifax confirmed that most of the calls were  made  before 
the mortgage team was open for business  and that the information given was correct. The 
investigators view was that she couldnt  find that Mr S had been given incorrect information 
on the basis of the evidence  available  and she didnt uphold the complaint. She pointed out 
that Mr and Mrs S had in January 2019  been sent a letter with the correct balance set out, so 
in any event she thought that they knew the correct balance.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that Halifax did give incorrect information. The 
investigator explained that there wasnt enough evidence to justify such a finding by this 
service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It isnt my role to punish businesses for 
making mistakes; my role is to put consumers back into the position that theyd have been in 
all along if the mistake hadnt been made. For example, if the money  due under a mortgage 
was legally due (as in Mr and Mrs S case), then it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Halifax to write that money  off simply  because it made a mistake.
But I have to decide whether the evidence available  to me shows  that its more likely than 
not that Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S incorrect information. Mr S says that it did. But Halifax  
denied it and its records show  that Mr S was told correct information several times in 
February 2019, and theres no evidence supporting Mr S position. The calls made on the 
date in question  dont show that he was given incorrect information. I cant find that Halifax  
has given incorrect information as, taking into account all the evidence,  I dont think its likely.
Ref: DRN52165292And I think its relevant  that in any event, Mr and Mrs S had been given the correct 
information in writing in January 2019  and in the yearly mortgage statements. If Mr S was 
given incorrect information  over the phone, I think it wouldve been sufficiently obvious that 
the much  lower figure  of £467.92  was incorrect compared to £8,794.07 owed only the month 
before.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5216529