K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained to A J Bell Management Limited about the charges in his self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  A J Bell made a single charge  to his SIPP in March 2018,  covering 
annual drawdown  administration charges for 2015,  2016, 2017 and 2018. Mr S said;  had 
they applied the charges as agreed  he would've  been prompted to move  to another  pension  
provider several years  earlier. 
background
Mr S held a SIPP  which  was administered by A J Bell. In January 2014, he started to draw 
benefits from his existing plan. At the time of arranging the drawdown of benefits, A J Bell 
confirmed the relevant  charges as: 
 'A one off charge of £75 plus VAT for the setup of benefits will be deducted from your SIPP. 
There will also be an annual  drawdown  administration charge of £100  plus VAT due annually  
in advance.'
In addition, the 'SIPP pension provider fees' document stated:
'The A J Bell administration  fee is £125  + VAT p.a. for a SIPP and £67.50 + VAT p.a. for a 
Child SIPP each year This will be charged quarterly or part thereof in January, April,  July 
and October'
At the start of arranging  the drawdown, A J Bell debited Mr Ss SIPP  account for the 2014  
annual drawdown  administration change on 6 January  2014.  No further annual drawdown 
administration charges were paid until 15 March  2018 when four yearly payments were  
taken.
Mr S complained to A J Bell stating  if they charged him correctly  he wouldve been  alerted to 
their high costs and moved his pension several  years earlier,  saving  him both the annual  
drawdown administration charges and administration fees.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ss complaint and didnt  recommend it be upheld.  He said he 
appreciated that seeing a large deduction from the SIPP bank account wouldve been  a 
surprise. However, he believed the fees had been clearly explained and agreed at the outset 
of the drawdown.
The charges  were applied when they fell due in 2014 and this didnt prompt Mr S to change 
pension provider at that time. On balance if the agreed fees were taken when they were due, 
he wasnt persuaded that Mr S wouldve moved  his pension.
Mr S disagreed; he said A J Bell had made an error. They incompetently managed his SIPP 
and the documentation referred  to charge being  taken at the appropriate time. He said other 
providers have lower  charges  and he wouldve moved his pension elsewhere.
Ref: DRN52152712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear AJ Bell made an error in not collecting the charges due annually  in advance as 
agreed. The level of the charges were set out in the documentation  in 2014. It also says that 
the transaction charge  will be collected only when applicable and that the administration  
charge will be collected annually in advance. Mr S has argued  that the failure by AJ Bell to 
take the charges at the correct time nullifies its right to be paid. 
It is not my role to make findings on legality,  but rather, on what is fair and reasonable. Mr S 
has agreed to pay a set sum for the services provided by AJ Bell. It has provided  those  
services. Should it be denied payment because it failed to collect the sums  due at the correct 
time? I dont  think it should be denied payment. 
I appreciate that if the payments had been  collected  at the correct times it may have 
prompted Mr S to move his funds. However,  I have to take account of the fact that he had 
been informed  of the annual charges  at the outset  and he had paid the first one so it is 
reasonable to assume he was aware  they were  payable. Therefore I cannot say that he was 
ignorant of the annual  charges and I dont believe it is reasonable to conclude that the failure 
to impose of those charges at the correct time denied him the ability to make  an informed 
choice.
I agree  that they charge may have  acted as a useful  reminder, but no more  than that. There  
was also some onus on Mr S to manage his pension and to have not been solely  reliant in 
the charges being made on time to cause  him to act. 
I agree  that it would have been better had the business written  to Mr S in 2018  to explain 
what had happened  and to say that it was planning to collect  the outstanding sums. 
However, I dont consider  that failure to be enough to allow me to require it refund any of the 
charges.
I cannot say if Mr S may have moved his funds earlier than he did, though I can see the 
reasons why the adjudicator took that view.  But I dont consider the delay in making the 
charges is a reason why the business should forgo  them.  I appreciate Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I dont believe the actions of the business as such  that it 
allows me to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
18 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5215271