K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ms W took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2004.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered  her mortgage  payments for up to 12 months at a time if she wasnt  
able to work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. It also provided a sum to cover 
other mortgage related expenses.
Ms W says that she wasnt aware  the PPI was optional. She says she was made to feel she 
had to have it to get the mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. Ms W disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ws 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Ms W doesnt say she didnt agree to take the PPI, but she says that she wasnt  aware it 
was optional. She thought she had to have it to qualify for the mortgage.
Ive looked at the documents Lloyds has provided. I can see that the page  in the mortgage 
application where PPI would  usually  appear is missing. However, I have seen other  
mortgage application forms used by Lloyds  at this time and they make it clear that the PPI is 
optional. I think its likely  to have been  the case here. 
So, on balance, on the limited information  I do have,  I think its most likely  Ms W bought the 
PPI knowing she had a choice about  it. Although I understand why Ms W might not 
remember this so many years later.
Lloyds advised  Ms W to buy the PPI, so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was 
suitable for her. Looking at her circumstances at the time I think  that it was. I say this 
because:
Ms W was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which  mightve 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
self-employment or existing medical conditions;
Ms W didnt have  any sick pay from her employer, so if she was too ill to work I think 
shed have struggled to meet  her mortgage  repayments and other  expenses, 
especially as she was solely responsible for the payments;
Ref: DRN57937852Ms W was likely entitled to a small amount of redundancy pay if she was made  
unemployed. But I dont think this wouldve been  more  than the equivalent  of a few 
weeks wages. The PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  at a time if she was 
involuntarily out of work, so I think it offered a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. I havent seen anything to  suggest it was unaffordable for Ms W.
The policy was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without penalty.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Ms W all the information she ideally shouldve  had before 
making her decision. For example its not clear how the cost was disclosed.  But I dont think 
more  or better  information  wouldve changed her mind  about buying it because  the cost 
was reasonable  and the policy was suitable for her as Ive already described.  
So I dont  think Ms W lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold so Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5793785