K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc is persecuting  him about a debt and would like it to 
stop.
background
Mr S took out a business loan in 2009.  The loan was secured on his house. Mr S didnt 
maintain payments and the loan was refinanced in 2011. The monthly payments for the new 
loan were lower as the loan had a longer term. The new loan was also secured on Mr Ss 
house. Mr S didnt maintain payments and the loan account was transferred to Lloyds 
recoveries team in 2012.
Mr S raised complaints and Lloyds put collection activity  on hold until the complaints were  
resolved. Lloyds says it instructed solicitors to start possession proceedings as it was unable  
to reach  an arrangement with Mr S to repay  the loan. Mr S disputes that Lloyds tried to reach 
agreement with him.
Mr S took legal advice  and agreed  a settlement agreement with Lloyds in 2018. He says he 
finds the agreed payments unaffordable and would  like to reduce the monthly payment. 
Lloyds declined. Mr S says Lloyds continues to threaten  him despite him making payments. 
He says this has made him unwell.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said as the loan 
is secured on Mr Ss property its not unreasonable for Lloyds to see this as a way to recover 
the debt. While Mr S finds this upsetting, theres no evidence Lloyds acted  unreasonably.  
Mr S took legal advice  before signing the settlement  agreement and the information  Lloyds  
had suggested  the repayments  are affordable. It was for Lloyds to decide  whether to accept 
lower monthly repayments.  
Mr S didnt agree, saying:
the adjudicators  view contradicts previous decisions  of this service  about the sale of the 
loan and related  payment protection insurance.  
Lloyds sought  to distress the loan. Mr S says hes received nearly 300 calls from Lloyds, 
starting at 7.30 in the morning to 10pm at night. He says Lloyds infringed his human 
rights and wants to steal his assets.  He says hes had advice this is harassment.
he tried to settle with Lloyds. He said he offered monthly payments of £750 but as soon 
as he said hed seek legal  advice Lloyds refused to deal with him and appointed its own 
solicitors. Mr S said this happened  again  when the settlement agreement  was reached, 
unfairly increasing his costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN59782912Mr Ss previous complaints
Mr S said our investigators recommendations werent consistent with this services previous 
decisions. Ive looked at Mr Ss previous complaints.  Im satisfied that the matter  Im dealing 
with here  whether Lloyds acted fairly in trying  to recover the debt owed to it by Mr S  is 
different from the subject  matters of the previous complaints.
what happened?
Mr S took out a business loan in March 2011 for about £39,000. The loan was secured by a 
second charge  on his house. The loan refinanced Mr Ss previous loan from Lloyds.
The loan was in arrears from May 2011. Lloyds served a formal demand  in 2012 and 
transferred the loan to its recoveries team. 
Mr S raised complaints with Lloyds and with this service. Mr Ss complaint that the loan was 
mis-sold wasnt  upheld by this service  (March  2017). His complaint  about the sale of PPI 
was upheld (May 2017)  and Lloyds  paid compensation.
In June 2017 Lloyds instructed solicitors to start possession proceedings.
In August  2018  Mr S and Lloyds signed  a settlement agreement. Mr S agreed  to make a 
lump sum payment and a payment of £750  on the first day of each month until the loan was 
repaid. The agreement says the amount of the monthly payments shall not decrease.
In September  2018 Mr S asked  Lloyds  to accept reduced monthly payments. Lloyds said it 
wasnt prepared to renegotiate  the terms of the settlement agreement.
the settlement  agreement
Mr S provided income and expenditure information which  Lloyds used to assess  how much 
he could pay each  month. This suggested  he had enough disposable  income to meet  the 
agreed monthly payments (or a higher amount). Lloyds provided a copy of an email  from 
Mr S to its solicitor in which Mr S says I can therefore offer the £20,000 immediately and 
£750 a month as a suitable  compromise. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to assess the 
payments in the settlement agreement as affordable.
The settlement  agreement says Lloyds can recover its legal costs.  Mr S agreed  to this when 
he signed the settlement agreement.
Lloyds agreed  not to pursue Mr S in respect of the debt and not to recover  contractual  
interest applied  during  a specified period. Mr S agreed that certain  events (including  not 
making a monthly  payment on time) would release Lloyds from its agreement. Lloyds would 
then be entitled  to seek to recover all contractual interest and take steps to recover the debt 
from the sale of the property or other assets.
Mr S had legal  advice before signing the settlement agreement and his solicitor assisted him 
in negotiating the terms of the settlement agreement. So I think its reasonable for Lloyds to 
assume he understood the terms of the agreement when he signed it. 
Ref: DRN59782913Lloyds recovery action
Mr Ss business loan was secured by a second  charge on his house.  When security  is given 
for a debt and the borrower doesnt pay the debt when due  as is the case here  the 
lender can seek to recover the debt from the proceeds of sale of the secured asset.  
Here, Lloyds didnt  continue with possession proceedings: it agreed  to Mr S repaying the 
debt on the terms  set out in the settlement agreement. 
Lloyds provided  evidence Mr S hasnt  always  made the monthly payment on the first day of 
the month  as required by the settlement agreement. I dont think  its unreasonable  for 
Lloyds to contact  Mr S when he doesnt  make the agreed payments. 
Mr S says he cant afford to make the monthly repayments he agreed in the settlement 
agreement. Its for Lloyds  to decide  whether a lower  monthly repayment is acceptable. 
Lloyds contact with Mr S
Lloyds says it tried to contact Mr S about reaching an agreement to repay the debt. Its 
records support this. 
While Mr S says Lloyds  contact amounts to harassment, I havent seen evidence to support 
this. I think its reasonable for Lloyds to contact  Mr S about the debt  for instance  when 
Mr S doesnt  make  agreed  payments on time.  And, while I appreciate  it can be upsetting, I 
think its right for Lloyds to explain the possible consequences of missing payments.
I think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to appoint  solicitors. In 2017  Mr Ss solicitor  wrote to 
Lloyds raising a number of points, including that Mr S disputed owing the debt to Lloyds and 
questioning the security. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to appoint solicitors to advise on 
the settlement  agreement. Mr S agreed  to pay the costs of Lloyds solicitors. 
Overall, I dont  think the available evidence here suggests Lloyds has acted unreasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978291