K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  did not carry out his 
instructions to downgrade his Additions Active account in April 2014.  This account was 
migrated to a Tech  pack and a Travel pack in January 2017.  Mr V would like the account 
fees that he paid after this point  refunded  to him.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked into this account already, and they concluded that Mr V did not 
actually suffer a financial loss due to the account  not being downgraded.  This was because  
the cost of the account and packs were  outweighed  by the savings that Mr V made on his 
overdraft facility due to holding them.
Mr V did not agree  with this outcome and asked  for it to be referred  for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
This decision will only be looking at Mr Vs request to downgrade his account: it is not 
looking at the sale of the account or packs themselves.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should explain how this service  works.  Briefly, when we think that a financial 
institution has done something  wrong, we aim to try to put the consumer  back  into the 
situation that they would have been if things  had not gone  wrong.  So that means  putting  
things right where a businesss  mistake  has caused  a consumer to lose out.
The upshot  of that approach is that I therefore  dont think that it matters whether Barclays 
failed to action  Mr Vs request to downgrade his account or not. I say this because Barclays 
have provided  me with calculations that demonstrate  that had Mr V not held the account  and 
packs then he would  have  paid significantly more in daily overdraft fees. So if Barclays has 
made a mistake,  that mistake has saved Mr V money, and he hasnt lost out.
To explain, when  an overdraft is used on a normal Barclays  bank  account  there  was at the 
time a 75p a day usage fee for overdrafts of up to £1,000. Whereas, if you held the Additions 
Active account, or the two packs, there was no daily fee on accounts overdrawn by less than 
£200. From  the statements that I have been  provided Mr V did use his overdraft frequently,  
and within  the £200 fee free limit that came  with the accounts. And therefore I am satisfied 
that the account remaining as an Additions Active account and then being  migrated to the 
two packs actually saved  Mr V money.
Mr V has argued that it is unfair to speculate  what wouldve happened  had the account been  
downgraded. From  that, I take it that he is suggesting he wouldnt have used an overdraft at 
all. But Mr V has said that he was under the impression that the downgrade had been  
actioned  and yet he continued  to use the overdraft. So the evidence  in no way suggests 
that he wouldve  acted  differently in how he managed his account had he known he was still 
paying a fee for it.
Ref: DRN54513772Overall I dont think that Mr V has suffered a loss and therefore  I do not think that Barclays 
owes him any money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5451377