K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that she was misled by National Counties  Building Society  (the business) 
about interest payment from her ISA being paid into her designated account. 
Shes subsequently  asked  for her ISA to be transferred to another business,  but is unhappy 
about the Early Access  Charge (EAC).
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
The investment  literature made reasonably  clear  how and when  interest would be 
paid.  
The terms and conditions also make  clear that interest  would be added to the ISA 
account and if there  were any withdrawals thered  be an EAC, so, making clear that 
no withdrawals  whether capital  or interest   would be possible.  
There was no suggestion that funds within the account would be treated any 
differently. 
There may have been ISA products  that treated interest and capital funds  differently. 
But if that was the case here, the business  would  have made it clear. 
The business asked  Miss S to read all the documentation in order to make  sure that 
the ISA was suitable for her, so the onus was on her to make sure the product  was 
what she wanted. 
The business refusal to transfer  the ISA without the EAC was fair and reasonable 
and in line with her terms and conditions. 
Overall the business hasnt acted unreasonably. 
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusion. Shes asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In summary  she maintained:
The summary page clearly states interest calculated daily and paid annually  on 1 
October. So her interpretation  is that interest is paid not accrued .
Income was the main  reason  for her transferring  her ISA.
The business confirmed that she would  receive  interest from account opening until 1 
October. The following year interest  would be applied for a full year and be paid on 1 
October. Maturity would be 5 years from the date of opening."  There  was no mention 
of the interest  being accrued.
The terms and conditions required details of where she would like the interest  and 
maturity funds to be sent.  
She feels theres scope for confusion under the terms which werent  clear  because 
maturing funds arent usually paid out as this would result  in the loss of the tax 
wrapper. Therefore the reader  would assume the interest payments were going to be 
paid into the consumers account.   
She hopes the business will take some responsibility for her misunderstanding. 
Having considered the additional points the investigator wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said:
Ref: DRN52590932Whilst there may have  been other products  on the market that led her to assume that 
the situation with be the same with her investment, looking  at the policy  
documentation on its own there  was nothing to suggest that interest would be paid 
out to her designated account.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss S says Im not going  to uphold  
this complaint. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ss strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by her and the business,  and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
The summary page of the application form says that the interest  is calculated  daily and paid 
annually on 1 October.  It doesnt say that the interest would be paid into Miss Ss nominated  
account. So its not entirely  clear on what basis shes  drawn  this conclusion. 
I appreciate Miss S was asked about nominating an account, and just assumed thats where  
her interest payment would be made. Ive no doubt  she genuinely held that belief and relied 
on the interest payment as income. But despite what she says, Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me that the policy literature  would reasonably have led her to believe that the 
interest would  be paid directly to her nominated account  and/or that she could  have access 
to the interest  as and when she needed it. If that was the case, l think  the business would 
have made  it expressly clear.  
Having considered her comments  about  the clarity (or lack thereof) of this statement in the 
form, Im unable  to safely say that the business is responsible for Miss Ss erroneous 
assumption. If there was something  she didnt understand or was unsure about, which she 
evidently was, she ought to have  sought clarification from the business. 
Different businesses operate in different ways. Just because one business does something,  
doesnt make it reasonable to assume  that another business would do the same. 
Ref: DRN52590933Furthermore, if the business  had done something wrong, and as a result  of that mistake Miss 
S wanted to move  to a different provider, I might  expect it to wave the early exit fees. But 
where its done nothing wrong, I wouldnt expect it to waive its early access / exit fees. 
On balance Im satisfied Miss S made an incorrect assumption  she didnt have what  she 
thought she had  I dont  think I can blame the business for this. 
I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed  Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration,  Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Miss S 
what she wants. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5259093