K820x#14complaint
Autonet Insurance Services Limited, a broker, arranged a motor insurance policy for Mr M 
and he complains that it charged him a fee of £35 when he changed his car. 
background
In November 2016, Autonet arranged a motor insurance policy for Mr M. In August 2017, 
Mr M phoned Autonet and told it hed changed  his car. Autonet charged Mr M a fee of £35 in 
relation to the amendment to his policy. 
Mr M says its unreasonable  for Autonet to charge him £35 for changing  his car. He wants  a 
reduction in the fee. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Autonet had treated Mr M unfairly. She said that when Mr M 
took out the policy, Autonet sent him information  about fees,  which showed a charge of £35 
for amendments to his policy. The investigator  said that Autonet also explained what  Mr M 
had to pay when  he phoned to make  the changes. She said that Autonet  had charged  Mr M 
in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He said that he didnt receive a list of fees from 
Autonet when he first took out the policy. Mr M said he accepted  the charges, as he had no 
alternative as hed bought  a new car and needed insurance to drive  it away. He says he 
wasnt fully aware of the fee at the outset. 
The investigator said that Autonet wrote to Mr M before his policy started  and the information 
it sent included  information about  charges.  She said that when Mr M phoned to change  the 
policy he could have  taken out insurance  with another insurer but would have had to pay the 
cancellation fee. The investigator  didnt  think that Autonet was wrong to charge Mr M in 
accordance with its terms, to which Mr M agreed.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the charges  made  by Autonet, it had to make sure that Mr M had enough 
information to decide whether its service was right for him and to communicate in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading. I think  it did that here and Ill explain why.
Before Mr Ms policy started,  Autonet  sent him information about  payment for its services. 
One of the things it charges for are amendments  to the policy,  for which theres a charge of 
£35. That was clearly  set out in the information  Autonet sent to Mr M. 
Ive listened to the phone call between  Mr M and Autonet when he told it hed changed his 
car. Autonet  was clear  about the charge.
Ref: DRN58325402I dont think Autonet  acted  unfairly  when it charged  Mr M in accordance with the terms of its 
agreement with him. It was entitled  to make the charge. I think the level of the fee is in line 
with the costs Autonet are likely  to have  incurred in administering  Mr Ms policy. When  
theres a change of car on risk, Autonet is obliged  to deal with the insurer  about the change  
of risk and update its records and external databases. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but there  are no grounds on which to direct  Autonet  to reduce 
its charge.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5832540