K821x#15Complaint
Miss H complains Novitas Loans  Ltd (Novitas) has treated her unfairly in relation to a loan 
she took out to fund legal proceedings.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings  on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
I will however  provide a brief summary of my provisional decision before I go on to consider 
the responses from both parties to the complaint.
Summary of the provisional  decision
Miss H entered  a credit agreement with Novitas,  regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
(CCA) in November 2014. The loan was intended  to fund legal proceedings and costs 
connected with Miss Hs separation from her ex-partner, P, and was arranged by a firm of 
solicitors (X), through one of its partners (Mr C). 
Miss Hs complaint about the loan was focused  on the following points:
Mr C, and X, had acted in a fraudulent  manner.  They had misappropriated the loan 
funds, which had not been  used  to fund her legal matter. They had then sought  to 
cover up their wrongdoing by deliberately delaying the legal proceedings and 
refusing to disclose  the existence  of the Novitas loan.
Novitas had been at least negligent  as it had failed to act on what  Miss H considered 
to be clear warning signs about Xs activities.
Novitas had not checked whether she could afford to repay the loan, and had lent to 
her irresponsibly.
In my provisional findings I considered  the basis for Novitass liability to Miss H for Xs 
allegedly wrongful actions, and its obligation to Miss H to lend to her responsibly. I found  that 
Sections 56, 75, and 75A of the CCA  may all give rise to potential connected lender liability 
for Novitas. I concluded Miss H could  bring a claim  against Novitas in respect of breaches  of 
contract or misrepresentations by X. 
On the question of Novitass  decision to grant the loan facility  to Miss H, I didnt think  its 
affordability checks had been proportionate to the circumstances of the borrowing, as 
required by the regulations which applied  at the time. Further  checks  ought to have been 
carried out. And I thought that had Novitas made  further enquiries into Miss Hs financial 
circumstances or the nature of her legal claim, it would  have  appreciated there was a 
substantial risk shed  be unable to repay the loan in a sustainable manner and it would not 
have agreed to lend to her. I concluded that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Miss H to 
have to pay interest fees or charges on the loan. I noted the loan funds had not been paid to 
her  they had been paid to X  and that I therefore needed to consider whether  (taking  into 
account the principles  of connected lender liability) she had benefited from the loan principal 
and should fairly pay it back.
Ref: DRN51327542In order to do so I investigated Xs dealings with Miss H. Having done so I found X:
Pressured Miss H into signing up for the Novitas loan.
Took actions which obstructed mediation  between Miss H and P, including  refusing 
requests for mediation, with no reasonable explanation.
Provided incorrect information to the barrister it had instructed for Miss H.
Provided incorrect information to Novitas about the progress of the legal matter.
Failed to update Novitas, and likely  Miss H, on the progress of the legal matter.
Delayed in making a court application, with no reasonable explanation.
I concluded X had been dishonest in its dealings with Miss H and had breached its contract 
with her, and that Novitas could be held jointly liable for the latter.   
In terms of putting things  right, I carried out an analysis of what I thought would  have likely  
happened had X not breached its contract  with Miss H. I considered  that had things gone as 
they should, Miss H would probably have ended up going to mediation  with P and incurred 
costs of up to £1,745.  I said I was minded to direct Novitas to take the following steps with 
respect to Miss H:
1.End her loan agreement and remove any reference  to it on her credit file.
2.Cap her liability for any debt which arose under  the loan agreement, to £1,745. If she 
has already paid this amount then any overpayments must be returned  to her with 
8% simple interest  per year added, calculated from the date she made the 
overpayments, to the date she is refunded. If she has not yet paid this amount then 
Novitas must attempt to arrange an affordable plan for repayment  of the outstanding 
debt.
3.Pay her £300  compensation (in respect of its handling of the matter).
4.Reimburse reasonable costs incurred  by her in completing the mediation arranged  by 
X for November 2017, upon receipt  of evidence of her having paid these costs. 8% 
simple interest per year should be added to any reimbursed amounts, calculated as 
per point  2 above.
 
The responses to the provisional decision
Neither party to the complaint was in complete  agreement with the provisional decision. 
Novitas said that it disagreed with a number of findings, specifically:
It considered my analysis of the operation and purpose of its lending  product, and of 
the policy and safeguards it had in place to ensure responsible lending, was 
inaccurate. It noted that its product was designed to allow access  to justice to people  
of limited financial means and that this should  be factored into a decision.
It thought the remedy I was minded  to direct it to put into place  failed to take account  
of the value of the legal advice Miss H had received  and which  was required  before 
her case  could have  proceeded to mediation. In other words,  I had arrived  at too low 
a figure  for the amount Miss Hs liability should  be capped  at.
On the other hand, Novitas said it had considered the fraudulent  and dishonest actions of X 
and accepted Miss H had not received the legal  service she had been  entitled to expect.
Ref: DRN51327543Miss H, for her part, was broadly in agreement with my provisional  decision. She noted 
however, that I had referred to her having  had independent legal advice about the loan and 
this wasnt strictly accurate. She said X had chosen  and paid the solicitor who gave her 
independent advice. She did not feel that such advice could be truly considered  
independent. Miss H also provided some evidence of the costs she had incurred and which  I 
had referred to in paragraph 4 of my intended  directions to Novitas.  More  recently,  Miss H 
said she wanted to highlight another couple of points: that Novitas  had taken nine months to 
respond to a subject  access  request and had not responded at all to her (new) solicitors  
when they wrote to Novitas with a complaint on her behalf back  in March 2018.
Novitas had said it intended  to provide further detailed representations on the points it 
disagreed with which I outlined above. A deadline was set for Novitas to provide these 
representations, which has now passed. Our investigator wrote  to Novitas to ask if it was still 
planning make  further  comments, and it replied that it had nothing further to add. The case  
has now been returned to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  to the complaint appear to accept (or at least have not disagreed  with) the 
analysis in my provisional decision  regarding the acts and omissions of X and Mr C, and 
what this means for Novitass  connected lender liability  to Miss H. So I will say no more 
about that, other than to confirm that my findings remain the same  as they were in my 
provisional decision. 
Miss H did raise a minor point regarding the independent legal advice she received not being 
truly independent  because  X had chosen  the solicitor and paid for the advice. She supplied 
a copy of an invoice  from this solicitor which showed X had been billed for the advice and 
not her. In my provisional decision I said that Miss H was required as part of the 
arrangements for the loan, to receive  independent legal advice about it. I also said that I did 
not think that having had this advice necessarily cancelled out any wrongdoing by X in 
respect of the loan application or discussions of the legal fees.  I therefore  didnt find it 
necessary to determine whether the advice was genuinely independent,  and I remain of the 
view that it isnt necessary  to make a finding  on this. It follows  that I make no further  
comment on it.
Regarding Miss Hs other points about  delays  in responding  to her subject access request 
and failing to respond to her complaint, I did not consider  the delays in responding to the 
subject access request as part of my provisional decision. I consider this to be a separate  
complaint about  something which happened  after the complaint I am considering was made. 
Miss H should, if she wishes, raise the complaint  about the delay in responding to her 
subject access request directly with Novitas. 
I took a holistic view regarding the remainder of Novitass  handling  of Miss Hs dispute, 
which I concluded had been poor, but I particularly considered  that Novitass  unyielding  
position on the matter had led to Miss H having  to go to great lengths to argue her case  and 
this had caused her inconvenience and frustration. Having looked over the history  of the 
case again I think the amount of compensation I was minded to award is fair and so I wont  
be changing this.
Ref: DRN51327544Novitas did not provide  the further  representations  it said it would, so I do not know  exactly 
why it disagrees with my provisional findings  about  its decision to lend to Miss H, or what it 
thinks was inaccurate about  how I represented  its lending policy and the safeguards it had in 
place to ensure  responsible lending. I have  reviewed again my provisional findings  against 
the evidence Novitas provided about the basis of its decision to lend to Miss H, and I havent 
seen a reason  to change those findings.  Novitas  did raise the point that its product is 
intended to facilitate access to justice to those  who might  otherwise not be able to afford it. I 
appreciate Novitas  considers its product  to fulfil a social purpose and that it believes this 
should be credited  in some way when assessing whether its lending  decisions are 
responsible. But Novitas hasnt elaborated on this, and without further submissions on this 
point there  is little more  I can add other  than to say that the rules  still required Novitas  to 
assess whether Miss H would be able to afford  to repay the loan sustainably.
Finally, Novitas  has questioned the cap at which I suggested Miss Hs liability  should be set 
for the loan. It has said Miss H did receive legal advice and this hadnt been taken into 
account and such  advice was required before proceeding to mediation.  It hasnt  suggested 
any alternative figure which it thinks is more likely to be accurate. 
I did take into account the potential cost of legal advice when calculating the cap at which  
Miss Hs liability should  be set. In my provisional decision, I noted that a website  the 
Government recommended people consult  for information about the costs of mediation,  said 
that £300 should be budgeted per person for legal advice. This was included in my 
calculation. I also considered the legal  fees involved in drawing up a formal financial  
agreement, which were estimated at between £500  and £600.  While I appreciate  the 
ultimate figure I came to was an approximation, Novitass  submissions have not given me 
reason to think this was an unfair  estimate  of how much Miss H might have had to pay, had 
X not breached its contract with her.
Having considered all the evidence again, along  with Miss H and Novitass further 
submissions, I see no reason to depart from the findings and redress  outlined in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things  right
I will be directing Novitas to take the same actions I set out in my provisional decision,  
namely that in respect of Miss H it must:
1.End her loan agreement and remove any reference  to it on her credit file.
2.Cap her liability for any debt which arose under  the loan agreement, to £1,745. If she 
has already paid this amount then any overpayments must be returned  to her with 
8% simple interest  per year*  added,  calculated from the date she made the 
overpayments, to the date she is refunded. If she has not yet paid this amount then 
Novitas must attempt to arrange an affordable plan for repayment  of the outstanding 
debt.
3.Pay her £300  compensation (in respect of its handling of the matter).
4.Reimburse reasonable costs incurred  by her in completing the mediation arranged  by 
X for November 2017, upon receipt  of evidence of her having paid these costs. 8% 
Ref: DRN51327545simple interest per year*  should be added to any reimbursed amounts, calculated as 
per point 2 above.
*In my provisional decision I omitted  to say that if Novitas  considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from this interest, it should tell Miss H how much 
its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Miss Hs 
complaint and direct Novitas Loans Ltd to take the steps outlined  above in the putting things 
right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN51327546COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss H complains  Novitas Loans Ltd (Novitas)  has treated her unfairly in relation  to a loan she took 
out to fund legal proceedings.
Background
Miss H had just left her ex-partner, P, and was seeking advice on child maintenance  matters and a 
loan she said she was paying on Ps behalf. In October 2014  she met with a solicitor, who Ill call Mr 
C, who was a partner in a firm I will call X.
X said it could  represent  Miss H and that if matters went to contested  court  hearings it could cost up 
to £45,000. After an abortive  application to another lender, X said it would apply to Novitas for a loan 
facility to cover the cost of the legal proceedings. Miss H agreed to go ahead and X organised the 
facility with Novitas with a borrowing limit of £45,000. The facility was regulated under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and was to be repaid from money received by Miss H as a result of the legal  
proceedings. In particular,  X noted on the application form for the loan that a property owned  by P 
would be sold and this was to be the repayment vehicle. The loan facility was not secured on land, but 
any losses incurred  by Novitas  if Miss H was unable to repay it were covered  by an insurance policy  
to cost 10% of the amount  of principal drawn down.  The loan was to run for 12 months from the date 
the agreement was signed,  and then become repayable  in full on 30 days notice from Novitas. The 
interest rate on the loan was 18% simple per year.
The loan agreement was completed on 6 November 2014 and shortly  after X presented Miss H with a 
document for her to authorise a drawdown of the full £45,000 available under the facility.  The 
document also outlined that an additional £4,500 would be added to the balance for the insurance 
premium and a £500 admin fee. Miss H signed the drawdown document and £45,000 was paid over 
to X by Novitas.
P also obtained legal representation and, over the next three years, no agreement  was reached 
between Miss H and P except  on some parenting matters. Early in November 2017  the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority (SRA) intervened into X and closed it down because there  was reason to 
suspect dishonesty  on the part of Mr C. Miss H instructed a barrister  who had already been working 
on her case  under Xs instruction, and a mediation  session was held late in November  2017.  I 
understand this resulted in Miss H and P coming  to an agreement on the outstanding matters relating 
to their separation.
Miss H, at around the same time, began investigating the situation with the Novitas loan. She 
communicated with a number of different  parties, including Novitas,  the solicitors appointed by the 
SRA to deal with the intervention  into X, the SRA,  and her barrister. A loan manager  at Novitas told 
Miss H that the funds from the loan facility had all been  released to X and she was liable  for the loan 
in full including fees and interest (which had been  accruing  for three years).  I will not narrate 
everything that happened after this point, but Miss H and Novitas  were unable to agree  on what, if 
anything, she should be liable  to pay. Novitas believed she was fully liable for the loan, in line with the 
terms and conditions  she had agreed to. Miss H didnt agree that she should  be held liable  for the 
loan at all. In broad summary Miss H has argued the following:
Mr C, on behalf of X, had essentially acted  fraudulently. He had drawn down  the full £45,000 
available under  the facility and not used that money to fund her legal  matter. She had not 
received any invoices. Mr C had sought to prevent this information  from coming to light by 
deliberately delaying  the proceedings between Miss H and P and refusing  or failing to 
disclose information  about Miss Hs loan to Ps solicitors  or even to the barrister  it had 
instructed to represent Miss H. This prevented the legal matter from moving forward.  When X 
was closed  by the SRA and the loan information was disclosed, everything had been resolved 
Ref: DRN51327547in a matter  of weeks.
Novitas had acted,  at best, negligently. It had failed  to act on signs that all was not well with 
X. This included approving the drawdown of the entire facility from the outset,  when no legal 
work would have  taken place; failing  to take action when X didnt respond to requests for 
updates for months  at a time, and not spotting there were significant  discrepancies in the 
information given by X, and that given  by Ps solicitors  (who were also funded by Novitas).
Novitas had not properly checked whether  there was any real prospect of her being  able to 
repay the loan in any event,  thus lending  to her irresponsibly. It had agreed to provide funding 
for a claim which was very unlikely  to succeed, and it had also not picked up on various  
issues with the loan application, including inaccurate  information about Miss H and Ps marital 
status.
Miss H couldnt  come  to an agreement with Novitas  and brought her complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. The most recent assessment issued by one of our investigators made  the 
following observations:
Novitas was liable under Section 75A of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 for any claim  Miss H 
had against X for breach of contract  in relation to the services funded by the loan.
Although there  was no clear written contract between Miss H and X, it was clear  enough  that 
shed agreed that X would represent her in the legal matters surrounding her separation  from 
P. There was an implied term in contracts for services that these would  be carried out with 
reasonable care and skill, within a reasonable  time and for a reasonable charge  (where this 
was not fixed). X had created unnecessary  delays and there was a lack of evidence  of the 
work X had been  doing. It had raised two invoices detailing professional fees of £36,037.50  
but these were vague and there was no evidence Miss H had received  them as they were  
incorrectly addressed.
There was some  evidence that X had not been acting on a fixed fee basis as Novitas had 
claimed, because it had paid invoices  at various points  during the case to pay for counsels  
fees and other disbursements.
The SRAs intervention agents had opined that a failure to raise and deliver invoices  to Miss 
H meant that costs were  not lawfully  owed by her to X, and had recommended to the SRA 
that she receive almost  full reimbursement from the SRAs compensation fund.
Overall it seemed likely X had failed  to provide some of the services it billed Miss H for, and 
hadnt carried  out those  services it had provided with reasonable skill and care, and it would 
be fair for Novitas to provide a remedy, bearing in mind  the provisions of Section 75A.
Novitas had been entitled during the loan application to rely on the recommendations and 
advice of X when assessing  the chance of her case succeeding.
Novitas should recalculate the credit agreement as though it had been for a principal amount  
of £6,687.50, this being the amount which X had paid in disbursements and which  could be 
verified, and the amount the SRAs intervention  agents had said Miss H should pay. It should  
also take a number of other steps including  removing adverse information  from Miss Hs 
credit file and working  with her to find a way to pay off any remaining  balance, and paying  her 
£150 compensation for delays in responding  to her.
Neither Novitas nor Miss H agreed with the investigators  findings  and recommendations. 
Miss H maintained  that she should have no liability at all for the loan. She said that X had procured  
the loan dishonestly and this is something  Novitas  should have discovered  because  P also applied  to 
Novitas for a loan a few days later, and the (correct) information  on his application  had been 
Ref: DRN51327548inconsistent with that submitted by X. Miss H also repeated that Novitas had turned a blind eye to 
evidence of Xs dishonesty throughout the protracted sequence of events  that had followed the loan 
application. She questioned Novitass judgement and motivation in allowing X to receive a drawdown  
of the full £45,000  within days of signing  the agreement, noting that such costs would not have been 
incurred so quickly, but that on the other hand interest was being  incurred  from the point of the 
drawdown. More broadly, Miss H expressed her concerns  about  the business model  of Novitas and 
its conduct both in relation  to her and Ps cases, and in general. She outlined the negative impact the 
events had had on her and Ps health  and lives.
Novitas, for its part, questioned  whether this service could deliver a fair answer  to Miss Hs case or 
investigate the matter  appropriately. It said it challenged whether the Financial Ombudsman Service 
had the necessary knowledge to determine a claim for negligence or breach of contract by a solicitor. 
It said it would have  expected  a legal  expert, such as a member of the SRA or the Legal 
Ombudsman, to determine a case like this.
Novitas also said there was not enough evidence  to show X had breached  its contract with Miss H, 
and for which  it could  be held liable  under the relevant section of the CCA, noting that no written 
contract appeared to have  been produced. It argued that it was difficult  to assess whether a breach of 
contract had occurred in the absence of the contract itself and that too many assumptions had been 
made by the investigator. Novitas thought it likely that more  than £6,687.50s worth of work had been 
done by X, and didnt think X had necessarily failed to discharge its services  to Miss H within a 
reasonable time. It said it had analysed its data on legal  matters like Miss Hs and found  the average 
time taken to settle a case from the point a loan had been agreed was 15 months.
Because neither  party has been able to agree a way forward, the case  has been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  for determining Miss Hs case
Novitas does not appear to challenge  the jurisdiction  of this service to determine  Miss Hs case, but in 
its response to our investigator it has said it takes the view that a different alternative dispute 
resolution (ADR) scheme with expert legal  knowledge would be better placed to resolve the 
complaint. Ive considered  this point carefully.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  makes the rules which govern how the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service must handle complaints. These are set out in the chapter of the FCA Handbook  titled Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints and are generally  known  as the DISP rules. 
DISP 3.3 gives the ombudsman  the power  to dismiss a case without considering its merits, and DISP 
3.3.4A and 3.3.4B set out the circumstances  in which  a case can be dismissed if it was referred  to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  on or after 9 July 2015. One such set of circumstances is where it 
would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a court or a comparable ADR  entity. 
Novitas is, in essence, arguing that Miss Hs complaint  should  be dismissed under  this rule. 
Its important to note that the power to dismiss a complaint is a discretionary one. It is not uncommon 
for there  to be some overlap in the types  of complaints  different ADR entities can deal with, and it 
could be the case that more  than one ADR entity  would be an appropriate arena for the resolution of 
all or parts of Miss Hs complaint. There could also be reasonable arguments that in at least some 
respects it would be more suitable for another ADR entity to deal with her complaint due to the 
expertise that other  entity  holds on certain subjects. 
Ref: DRN51327549But that does not mean I am bound to dismiss  the complaint. Ultimately,  I am required to make a 
determination based on what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. While I can understand  Novitass point of view that there may be other ADR entities with expert 
knowledge of legal matters,  I dont  think  this means Im unable to determine Miss Hs complaint fairly. 
Novitass responsibilities arising from the nature of its agreements with Miss H and X
Miss Hs credit agreement with Novitas is a consumer credit agreement regulated by the CCA. 
Specifically, it is a restricted-use credit agreement within the meaning of section 11(1)(b) of the CCA, 
and a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement within the meaning of section 12(b) of the CCA. 
Put simply, this means it is a loan made under pre-existing arrangements between Novitas and X, to 
fund Miss Hs dealings with X. Two other sections of the CCA apply to a loan of this nature and which 
come with some  relevant responsibilities for Novitas. I will outline these  below.
Section 56 of the CCA makes X the agent of Novitas for the purpose of the antecedent negotiations 
which took place between X and Miss H prior to her entering  into the credit agreement. This means  
anything said or done by X during this period is taken as having been said or done on behalf  of 
Novitas. It would cover, for example, misrepresentations made by X to Miss H.
Section 75A of the CCA is also applicable to Miss Hs agreement. This allows Miss H, if she has a 
claim for breach of contract against X, to bring that claim against Novitas instead,  so long as several 
conditions are met. One such condition  is that the supplier  (X) is insolvent, which is the case  here and 
as Miss Hs meets the other conditions,  I conclude  she would be able to bring a claim against Novitas.  
There are certain features of an agreement which  can cause section  75A not to apply  to it. These are 
where the agreement is secured on land, the cash value of the services paid for by the agreement  
does not exceed £30,000,  the agreement is for more than £60,260, or the debtor has entered  the 
agreement wholly or predominantly for business purposes. 
Im satisfied that the only exclusion which may apply is the exclusion  related to the lower threshold of 
the cash  value. I say this because,  although  X appears to have requested  £45,000 up front,  it told 
Miss H this was the highest  amount she would have to pay, and that in reality  she would probably end 
up paying significantly less than this and be refunded  the difference. One email,  for example,  
suggests a cost of £12,000-£15,000  was quoted to Miss H. If it is indeed the case that the cash price 
of the services was £30,000  or under,  then section 75 of the CCA would  apply instead,  which would  
allow Miss H to bring the same claims  against Novitas in respect of breaches of contract  by X, but 
also for misrepresentation by X. Because section 56 already provides for a route by which Miss H can 
claim against Novitas for Xs alleged misrepresentations, I dont need to subject this issue to further 
analysis.
Novitass duty to lend responsibly
Miss H has expressed concerns over the decision  of Novitas to lend to her. At the time Novitas lent to 
Miss H the FCA had recently made new rules regarding responsible  lending, set out in its Consumer  
Credit Sourcebook (CONC). These rules were for the most part based on, and frequently referred  to, 
the Irresponsible Lending  Guidance  (ILG) issued in 2010 and 2011 by the previous regulator of 
consumer credit  activities, the Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT). In many  respects therefore, CONC 
simply codified into rules what had previously been guidance for the sector.
As far as Novitass responsibilities were concerned  as a lender, CONC  outlined what it was expected 
to do before agreeing  to lend to Miss H. 
CONC 5.2 dealt with the assessments Novitas needed to carry out before making  its agreement with 
Miss H:
CONC 5.2.1  R
Ref: DRN5132754101) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake an assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the customer.
[Note: section  55B(1)  of CCA]
(2) A firm carrying out the assessment required in (1) must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is aware 
at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph  4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph  4.3 of ILG]
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from:
(a) the customer, where appropriate; and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
[Note: section  55B(3)  of CCA]

CONC 5.2.3  G
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon  and proportionate to factors  
which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customers credit  history,  including  any indications that the customer  is experiencing or 
has experienced  financial  difficulties;
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in respect of 
other credit agreements, consumer  hire agreements,  regulated mortgage contracts, payments 
for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water and other major outgoings  
known to the firm;
(7) any future financial  commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances  which  could  be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer,  in particular  where the firm understands  the customer has 
some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects  this to be so because  the 
customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity limitation (see CONC  2.10).
[Note: paragraph  4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4  G
(1) To consider all of the factors set out in CONC 5.2.3  G in all cases is likely  to be 
disproportionate.
[Note: paragraph  4.11 of ILG]
(2) A firm should  consider  what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of the credit being  sought and the potential risks to the 
Ref: DRN513275411customer. The risk of credit  not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph  4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
(3) A firm should  consider  the types and sources of information to use in its creditworthiness 
assessment and assessment required by CONC  5.2.2R (1), which may,  depending on the 
circumstances, include  some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
[Note: paragraph  4.12 of ILG]
(4) A high level of scrutiny in the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1) would normally be 
expected before the lender  enters into a regulated  credit agreement  secured  by a second or 
subsequent charge on the customers  home.
[Note: paragraph  4.17 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 provided further guidance on what Novitas should have taken into account  when making  
its assessments,  and made rules on what it considered were unfair  business practices  in relation to 
lending:
CONC 5.3.1  G
(1) In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph  4.2 of ILG]
(2) The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable  steps  to assess the customers ability  to meet repayments  
under a regulated  credit  agreement  in a sustainable  manner without  the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph  4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
(3) A firm in making its creditworthiness  assessment  or the assessment required by CONC  
5.2.2R (1) may take into account future increases in income or future decreases in expenditure, 
where there is appropriate  evidence of the change and the repayments are expected  to be 
sustainable in the light of the change.
[Note: paragraph  4.9 of ILG]
(4) If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
(a) the firm should take account of actual current income  or expenditure and reasonably  
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate  to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable  that it will differ  from actual current income or expenditure over the 
anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure,  on a statement of those matters  made by the customer;
(c) its assessment should be based on what the firm knows at the time of the assessment.
[Note: paragraph  4.13, 4.14 and 4.15 of ILG]
(5) An example of where it may be reasonable  to take into account  expected future income 
would be, in the case of loans to fund the provision of further or higher education,  provided that 
an appropriate assessment  required by this chapter is carried out and there is an appropriate 
Ref: DRN513275412exercise of forbearance in respect of initial repayments, for example, deferring or limiting the 
obligation to repay until the customers  income  has reached a specified  level. Any assumptions 
regarding future income should be reasonable and capable of substantiation in the individual 
case and the products should be designed  in a way to minimise the risks to the customer.
[Note: footnote 21 to paragraph 4.9 (box) of ILG
(6) For the purposes of CONC  sustainable  means the repayments  under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end  agreement, 
within a reasonable period;  and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets;  and
unsustainable has the opposite  meaning.

(11) Where a firm requests  information from a customer for its creditworthiness assessment or 
its assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) and the information provided by the customer is 
false and the firm has no reason to know this is the case, the firm should  not contravene CONC 
5.2.1 R or CONC 5.2.2 R.
[Note: paragraph  4.10 of ILG]

CONC 5.3.2  R
A firm must establish and implement  clear  and effective policies and procedures to make a 
reasonable creditworthiness assessment or a reasonable assessment  required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph  4.19 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.3  G
Under the procedures required by CONC 5.3.2 R a firm should take adequate  steps, insofar  as 
it is reasonable  and practicable to do so, to ensure  that information (including information 
supplied by the customer)  on an application  for credit relevant to a creditworthiness 
assessment or an assessment required by CONC  5.2.2R (1) is complete and correct.
[Note: paragraph  4.29 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.4  R
A firm must not base its creditworthiness assessment, or its assessment required  under CONC 
5.2.2R (1), primarily or solely  on the value  of any security provided by the customer, but this 
rule does not apply in relation to a regulated credit agreement under which the firm takes an 
article in pawn and the customers total financial liability  (including capital, interest and all other 
charges) is limited under  the agreement to the proceeds of sale which would  represent the true 
market value  (within the meaning of section 121 of the CCA) of the article  or articles pawned by 
the customer.

CONC 5.3.7  R
Ref: DRN513275413A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the 
firm knows  or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application  in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant  to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1).
[Note: paragraph  4.31 of ILG]

To summarise very briefly  the rules above as they apply to this case: Novitas had to assess Miss Hs 
application for the loan facility, to check if she would be able to afford  to repay  it in a sustainable way. 
Its assessment had to be proportionate to the circumstances, taking into account the characteristics of 
the lending being proposed,  and Miss Hs financial situation. In order to be sustainable,  repayments 
would need to be able to made  on time and out of income or savings and without having to realise 
security or assets. Novitas had to assess whether  the commitments  Miss H was signing  up to were 
likely to adversely  impact  her financial  situation.  In doing the above,  Novitas could  take into account  
potential future increases in income so long as any assumptions made  about  these were  reasonable 
and capable  of being substantiated with appropriate  evidence.
Novitass decision  to lend to Miss H.
The regulatory expectations  thus set out, I move on to the checks Novitas  carried out prior to lending  
to Miss H. Based on the evidence  I have before  me, it appears Novitas relied  on the following 
information:
The results of a credit check carried out by a third-party lender,  which emailed  Novitas to say 
it was fine to lend.
A self-declaration  from Miss H in relation to her being free of insolvency and adverse credit 
history.
An application form which appears to have been completed by X, outlining the anticipated 
vehicle for repayment  of the loan, the strategy for the legal case and any risks foreseen  for 
repayment.
An assignment (described as a security)  of Miss Hs rights to any proceeds from her legal  
proceedings against P, which it was anticipated would  come from Miss H gaining a share in 
Ps property which would  then be sold.
An insurance policy  taken out for Novitass  benefit but paid for by Miss H in the sense that it 
was added to the loan balance. It appears this would repay to Novitas the capital  it had lent if 
Miss H defaulted  and certain steps had already been taken to recover the monies owed.
It doesnt  appear that any efforts were made to ascertain Miss Hs income or expenditure,  or the level 
of any savings  she may have had. I do not find this surprising because  its apparent from the evidence 
that Novitas did not contemplate  that Miss H might end up in a situation where  she would have to pay 
back what she owed from her income  or savings. 
Novitas has essentially explained that it expected Miss H to gain a share  of Ps property,  which  was 
said to have  £780,000  in equity (this doesnt appear to have been verified at the time), and on sale of 
the property  the loan would  be repaid. 
CONC states that repaying a loan is not considered  sustainable if to do so requires realising security 
or assets. It also states that basing an assessment of creditworthiness primarily or solely on the value 
of a security is an unfair  business practice.
Ref: DRN513275414It appears that Novitas based its assessment of creditworthiness primarily  on the value  of Ps property 
and the chance that Miss H might gain some equity in it. And this was not a security in the sense that 
it was something  Miss H was guaranteed to be able to fall back on: it was conditional on her being 
successful in her legal  matter against  P. So there was a chance  she might have  no means  of repaying  
what was a very substantial loan, at all. 
Novitas has told this service that in 2018 it presented its lending model  (which it says was unchanged 
from the time it lent to Miss H) to the FCA, which  had not raised any concerns about  it. I was not privy 
to these discussions  and I dont know exactly what was shown to the FCA,  however from my 
experience in considering cases involving lending decisions, Im aware  that lending models do not 
always operate in practice as they do in theory. And from a copy of Novitass lending policy  which I 
have seen, I note there appears  to have been considerable discretion  for it to approve applications  for 
borrowing which did not satisfy the criteria  set out in the policy. Miss H, for example, does  not appear 
to have satisfied  the criteria but her application was approved. So I dont think the FCAs supposed 
acceptance of Novitass lending model  is something which I can attach much weight to here.
Novitas has referred to accepting the expert opinion of X regarding the chances of success of the 
legal matter,  and on the proceeds being enough to repay the loan. Novitas appears to have accepted 
Xs opinion  uncritically. I can understand why it might be, in some  circumstances, acceptable to do so. 
While a solicitor approaching  Novitas for funding would of course have  an interest in painting  an 
optimistic picture of their chances of success, on the other hand Novitas would  be entitled to assume  
the solicitor was acting in the best interests of their client. There is evidence now to suggest X was not 
acting in Miss Hs best interests, but that doesnt  necessarily mean  Novitas ought  to have known this 
at the time.
Nevertheless, this was an application for a substantial  loan at a not insignificant rate of interest.  The 
terms of repayment were such that a very large lump sum would have been required to repay it. And 
the information provided  to Novitas by X to support the application was, in my opinion,  rather  lacking 
in detail. Given  the amounts  involved, I dont  think  Novitass checks here were proportionate.
Miss H has suggested Novitas were  unaware she and P were unmarried, and that X was pursuing  a 
legal claim  (TOLATA) with much less certain prospects of a settlement than if she and P had been 
married. There is some  evidence to suggest Novitas was indeed under the impression Miss H and P 
were married. For example,  some of her loan paperwork refers to P as her spouse, and internally  the 
loan appears to have been classified  by Novitas as being related to a divorce. Ps solicitors also 
intimated in an email  to X that they had spoken  to Novitas and been told it was against its policy  to 
lend in support of a TOLATA claim and that they were therefore very surprised Novitas had done so. 
So I can see how Miss H would think Novitas must have mistaken the purpose of the loan X had 
applied for on her behalf. I asked  Novitas to clarify  its position  on this, and it explained  that it didnt 
see any difference between divorce proceedings  and a TOLATA claim, as far as its lending policy was 
concerned. Ultimately, I dont think either possibility assists Novitas  here. If its policy was not to lend 
in support of a TOLATA claim then it appears it went against its policy either by accident or exception. 
If its policy was that it would  lend in support of a TOLATA  claim and saw no difference in risk between  
that and a divorce, then this calls into question its creditworthiness assessment. 
In light of the above, Im unable  to see how Novitass  decision to lend to Miss H was in line with what  
was required of it from a regulatory point  of view.  Indeed,  it appears possible to me that Novitass 
approach in Miss Hs case falls into the category of an unfair business practice as defined  in CONC. 
Had Novitas  enquired further into Miss Hs financial circumstances or the nature of her legal claim,  I 
think it would have reached the conclusion  that there was a substantial  risk shed be unable to repay  
the proposed  loan in a sustainable manner. Ultimately, I dont think it would have agreed to lend to 
her, had it carried out proportionate  checks, and I am minded to conclude that it was therefore wrong 
to do so.
In my view it would not be fair or reasonable for Miss H to have to pay interest,  fees or charges on a 
loan which was lent irresponsibly. So my starting point is that Miss H should have to pay back only the 
Ref: DRN513275415loan principal  she has received. But Miss H hasnt received any money  it was paid to X  so Ive 
needed to go on to assess whether Miss H benefited from these funds and should therefore fairly pay 
them back. When doing so, Ive considered the principles of connected  lender liability I outlined earlier 
in this decision.
Potentially relevant  considerations regarding X
Before going on to consider whether Miss H may have a valid claim against  Novitas in respect of its 
connected lender liability, I think it would  be useful  to set out what is currently known about X and Mr 
C and which are relevant background to Miss Hs case.
As Ive already indicated, X was the subject of an intervention by the SRA. This intervention took 
place due to the SRA suspecting that Mr C had been dishonest. X had also been rebuked by the SRA 
for irregularities in accounting for client money, prior to the intervention. 
I am aware  that further irregularities have since been discovered. This included large  deficits  relating 
to client  money and I understand  the SRAs compensation fund has needed  to pay more than £1.8m 
in connection with the intervention. It seems that some money which  should have been held on 
account to pay for client legal matters, was instead transferred out of X to another entity Mr C had an 
interest in, which I will call X1. 
X1 went into administration not long after X was closed by the SRA, and it was found  by the 
administrators that Mr C had drawn  money from X1 amounting to a six figure sum. Mr C has 
subsequently gone bankrupt and agreed to a bankruptcy  restrictions  undertaking  (BRU). According to 
the Insolvency Service,  a BRU is put in place to protect the public, due to dishonest or blameworthy 
behaviour leading to the individuals  bankruptcy.
This all paints a most  unflattering picture of Mr C. While  there appears to a body of evidence to 
suggest that X and Mr C have been  dishonest,  it does not necessarily mean that they were dishonest  
in their dealings with Miss H. However,  the evidence of this dishonesty  has been a relevant 
consideration when I have weighed  up the rest of her case.
The actions of X prior to the conclusion  of the credit agreement and initial drawdown
Miss H has provided some further evidence since  our investigators assessment of the case, of the 
discussions which took place before she entered the credit agreement  with Novitas. 
The first documentary evidence  of discussions between Miss H and X is dated 29 October 2014. This 
is an email  from Mr C which set out the terms on which  Miss H would  be dealing with X. Mr C said he 
was going to wait to hear from P, and would apply  to the court in respect of property and parenting 
matters if he heard nothing, while seeking a mediated  settlement. On the subject of costs and fees,  
Mr C said he thought  it would  cost around  £45,000  to pursue her parenting and property disputes all 
the way to contested court hearings. He noted that X expected its costs to be met at the outset. Mr 
C also said the following:
Interest accrues on the loan at 1.5% per month but during the course  of the loan we make that 
monthly payment for you so that the loan is not a financial  burden to you. The loan and interest is 
repayable when the property  is sold from the proceeds of sale.
He went on to say:
I should record that If the matter settles and there are no contested  hearings you will not be
charged the full amount  of the fees and our fees will be calculated on a time basis.  Any costs
not incurred will then be refunded.
At this point in time X appears  to have had in mind another  lender  L  to fund the legal 
Ref: DRN513275416matter and indeed it asked Miss H to sign a credit agreement  with a £5,000 limit and 36 month term. 
Curiously, Mr C said you will see the agreement shows a credit limit of £5,000  for illustrative 
purposes only but the application is for the full amount of the fees.
Miss H returned  the application form for L, and received an email from Mr C on 31 October  2014 in 
which he said L had made an error  and he would be making an application  via Novitas instead.  He 
clarified some points for Miss H, including  that the £45,000 covered everything  that we do  
telephone calls,  emails,  meetings, court hearings   everything [emphasis in original].
Miss H replied  to this email  with further questions about the £45,000 fee and referenced  a 
conversation she had with one of Mr Cs colleagues, who had apparently said £45,000 was a worst-
case scenario  if the case ended up in court,  but she could  expect to pay much less in the case  of a 
mediated settlement.  It doesnt appear Mr C replied to this email.
X also sent Miss H a terms of business which referred to an initial time estimate of 12 to 16 weeks,  
or 6 to 9 months if court  proceedings were necessary. The document confirmed the nature of 
instructions as TOLATA  Claim and that a fixed fee had been agreed. After this point the Novitas 
loan application took place as Ive described above. Mr C emailed Novitas while  it was considering 
the application to impress upon it the urgency of the matter, referring to an emergency application 
which needed  to be made to the court. I will note here that Xs statement that it would pay the monthly  
interest on the loan appears to have referred only to the prospective  loan with L (which would have 
required monthly  payments of interest), and not the Novitas  loan. 
Although it is common for solicitors to agree a fixed fee for a particular package  of legal services, Xs 
agreement with Miss H for her legal  costs was rather unusual in that X was to take a £45,000  fee up 
front when it had said it did not believe it was likely all this money would be needed.  It would  only be 
necessary if the matter went to contested court hearings, which would have been a long way off (at 
least 6 to 9 months  even  by Xs estimate). My understanding is that the normal  practice is for 
payments to be taken in stages as a legal matter progresses.  This is a logical way of doing things  
because it allows payments to keep  in step with the actual costs being incurred by the solicitor. 
To take a fee at the outset which covers every conceivable  expense  which could occur up to the point 
of contested court hearings does not appear to be logical.  Xs decision to require payment in this way 
is all the more  puzzling  in light of its knowledge that it was arranging for Miss H to borrow the money  
at a significant rate of interest,  which  would  begin to accrue  from the date of drawdown.  By insisting 
on the maximum, hypothetical fee being taken up front,  X was aware that it was putting Miss H in a 
disadvantageous position  which would  cause her to pay significantly  more in finance costs, for no 
good reason that I can see. It would  be difficult to argue that such an arrangement was in her best 
interests, and it invites the question of why X insisted  on it.
While I am aware  that Miss H was required  to take independent legal  advice in relation to the Novitas 
loan and how it worked,  I dont think this necessarily cancels out any wrongdoing by X in respect of 
the loan application or the discussions over fees and drawdowns. I note that in his email of 29 
October 2014 Mr C did not present any other funding options  to Miss H, and asked her to complete 
and sign the paperwork  so it could be processed by Friday, which  was in two days time. Miss H has 
said she felt pressured by X and being  led to believe this was her only option.  She has referred  to 
being in a vulnerable state at the time, which  I accept that she was, having  just left P and the home  
she shared  with him, with her infant child. 
The actions of X after the conclusion of the credit agreement and drawdown
Mr Cs email to Miss H explained what it was that X was going to do for her, though this did not go 
into a great  deal of detail:
We will expect now to hear from P (or solicitors acting for him) in relation to the occupation of the 
house and will of course  let you know when  there  are developments. If we hear nothing we will begin  
the process of (1) applying  to the court in respect  of the property (2) applying in respect of [your 
Ref: DRN513275417child]s entitlement and (3) continue  to seek a mediated settlement of the claims we envisage, if 
there is no settlement,  that it will be necessary to make two applications  to the court in respect of your 
interest in the property and [your child]s entitlement to support  from her father.
It would seem therefore that X had agreed to seek a mediated settlement between  Miss H and P, and 
make two separate applications to the court in respect of child and property  matters.
Xs terms of business did not hold X to any particular standard of service to be delivered  to Miss H. 
But at the time Miss H entered her agreement with X, the relevant law which applied to a contract for 
services was the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 (SGSA). This says that where a supplier 
acts in the course of a business, there is an implied term in the contract  that the supplier  will carry out 
the service with reasonable care and skill. What constitutes reasonable  care and skill is not defined, 
however it has generally been taken to mean the level of care and skill which would  be exercised by a 
competent practitioner of the service in question. Because  X was a firm of solicitors dealing with 
family work (and holding itself out to be a specialist  in this area), Ive taken into account  relevant 
guidance from the SRA and the Law Society when thinking about what would constitute reasonable 
care and skill in the way X conducted matters.
The SGSA also provides that where  a time for a service  to be carried out is not fixed  by the contract, it 
is an implied term that the supplier will carry out the service within a reasonable time.
Its clear that the issues  arising  from Miss H and Ps separation were  not resolved quickly or without 
difficulties, given it took three years for a full agreement to be reached. Miss H (and P) have  laid the 
blame for this at Xs door.  Without  what they view as a combination of Xs incompetence  and 
dishonesty, they are sure that their separation could  have been resolved much more  quickly via 
simple mediation  and at a much cheaper cost. They point to the fact that in November 2017 when X 
was removed from the picture, they held a mediation  session and everything was resolved.
Miss H and P are of this opinion now, some years after their separation, but I have to bear in mind 
that at the relevant time its possible they held quite  different  views and it may not have been as easy 
to come to an agreement  as it was in November  2017  after some time had passed. Ive taken this into 
account when considering the impact of Xs acts or omissions.
A few aspects of Xs representation of Miss H stand out as being relevant to the question  of whether  it 
exercised reasonable care and skill in representing her, whether it acted  in an honest way in its 
dealings with her, and whether it did what it said it would  do in its initial email.
X appeared to have obstructed attempts  to mediate between Miss H and P
Mr C explained in his initial email to Miss H email that he would be pursuing  a mediated settlement.  
This is consistent with what would be expected of a family  solicitor in these circumstances, exercising 
reasonable skill and care.1 But Xs actions afterwards appear to have been inconsistent with this 
stated aim. 
Ps solicitors informed X that P was proposing to work with a number of named mediators including 
one I will refer to as T. T subsequently contacted  Miss H on 3 December  2014 to invite her to an 
initial mediation meeting  (MIAM) separate to P. Miss H passed on the email to X asking  for their 
advice. X described  the email as a cheap manoeuvre and said they would deal with it. X then 
replied to T in a somewhat  hostile manner, stating  that Miss H was not interested in your services 
and demanded to know  who T was, who regulated them, and how they had obtained Miss Hs details. 
Miss Hs emails to X didnt suggest that she was against  mediation, and X had told her it would  seek  
to mediate, so I dont understand  Xs approach here. It appears to have served  to delay and obstruct  
efforts to mediate  between the parties.
1 In April 2014  it became  a requirement for an initial  mediation meeting (MIAM) to be attended by at 
least the potential applicant, before any court application could be made, unless specific exemptions 
applied. I have not been made aware  of any exemptions which would  apply to Miss Hs case.
Ref: DRN513275418No mediation  was arranged until November  2015, despite (it seems)  much urging  by Ps solicitors. X 
said that P and his solicitors  then pulled out of this mediation,  days before it was due to take place, 
without good reason. Ps solicitors, on the other hand, informed Novitas that there had been issues 
with disclosure which had prevented the mediation  from going ahead. Specifically, the solicitors said it 
was Miss Hs Novitas loan which had not been disclosed until just before the mediation  was due to 
take place. 
It was a condition of the Novitas loan that its existence was disclosed  to P. While the terms of the loan 
indicated that it was Miss Hs responsibility  to disclose the loan by serving a form  of notice  on P, it 
appears that in practice Novitas expected this to be done by X. I say this firstly  because  Novitas sent 
Mr C a handwritten  slip with the loan documents in November 2014,  referring  to the form of notice and 
stating it was to be served on the spouse via their solicitor. And secondly, X was handling  
communications between Miss H and P and it would therefore have been expected it would  handle 
the disclosure of the loan too. Miss H says X advised her to keep the existence of the loan 
confidential. I havent seen  written evidence  of this although it seems plausible in light of the rest of 
the evidence. At the very least it does seem that X misled the barrister  it had instructed for Miss H, as 
to the existence of the Novitas loan. The barrister wrote to Miss H in July 2019, explaining:
I had no idea that you were in receipt of a Novitas loan until we prepared the case for the mediation 
[in November 2017],  by which time X were the subject of an intervention. I was always puzzled  as to 
how your case was being  funded and recall being told by Mr C that your parents were  helping to fund 
it I was kept as much  in the dark as you about the financial dealings of X 
I am inclined to trust the evidence  of the barrister  that this is what Mr C told her. The conclusion I am 
bound to reach  is that he was not telling the truth. It is extraordinary that X knowingly provided 
incorrect information to the barrister it had instructed for Miss H. This was bound to make it difficult for 
the barrister to represent Miss H effectively and in my view likely contributed to the delays in 
mediation taking place.  Overall, I find there were  several  occasions where X took actions which  
prevented Miss H and P from mediating.
X delayed  in making a court application and, in general, moving proceedings along
Some time after the SRA intervened in X, their intervention agents wrote to Miss H with evidence of 
disbursements which had been paid by X. One such disbursement was for a court  fee, likely related to 
an application, and this was dated to February 2017. 
Had there been an earlier  court application, I would  have  expected there to be further evidence of a 
fee being  paid for this. So it seems X didnt  make any applications to the court  between October 2014 
and February  2017. The fact an application was apparently only made two and half years after the 
loan was agreed  is inconsistent with what Mr C said in his October 2014 email to Miss H (in which  he 
suggested he would be making applications imminently), and his comments  to Novitas about  needing 
the loan to be processed  quickly so he could make an emergency application.
It isnt clear why there was such a delay  in making an application. While  there could be a good 
explanation, no evidence has been produced to suggest that there was one. It is also troubling  that Mr 
C appears to have given incorrect information to Novitas when it began pressing him for updates on 
the case. In April 2016  for example, he wrote to Novitas  stating, incorrectly, that a court application  
had been made.    
The barristers letter to Miss H also provides some useful insight on the question  of delays by X. She 
recalled the following:
your matter seemed  to take an inordinately  long time for X to prepare  and  it was done in fits and 
starts with a great deal of repetition and gaps of months between preparing the claim to be issued.
Ref: DRN513275419Novitas itself appears to have become  concerned about a lack of progress and repeatedly contacted  
Mr C, usually without a reply. When replies  did come, they tended to be notable  for their brevity  or, as 
outlined above, containing incorrect information.
Overall conclusions  regarding X
The submissions by the parties to this case come to about  2,000  pages. Even with such  a great 
volume of information, I have to acknowledge  that the evidential picture  is not complete. 
Nevertheless, I am able to come to a conclusion on the balance of probabilities in respect of Xs 
dealings with Miss H.
Specifically, I find that on balance, X:
Pressured Miss H into signing up for the Novitas loan.
Took  actions which obstructed  mediation between Miss H and P, including refusing requests 
for mediation, with no reasonable explanation.
Provided incorrect information to the barrister it had instructed for Miss H.
Provided incorrect information to Novitas about the progress of the legal  matter.
Failed to update Novitas, and likely Miss H, on the progress  of the legal matter.
Delayed in making a court application,  with no reasonable explanation.
Based on my findings  above I am minded to conclude,  on the balance of probabilities, that X behaved  
dishonestly in its dealings with Miss H. But even if that isnt correct, at best Xs handling of matters 
was lacking  in reasonable  care and skill, and (or alternatively) X breached the express term of its 
agreement with Miss H that it would work  towards a mediated settlement with P.
I think  this is clear enough that one does  not need  to be an expert in legal matters  to reach this 
conclusion fairly. I conclude that X breached its contract with Miss H.
As outlined  earlier in this decision, under section 75A (or alternatively section 75) of the CCA, Novitas 
would be jointly liable to Miss H for this breach of contract. Ive thought  about  this when  considering 
what, if anything, Novitas should do to put matters right for Miss H.
Putting things right
Our investigator was guided by the opinion  of the SRAs investigation agents  when determining  what 
Novitas should do. The opinion of the intervention agents was that the SRAs position is that if no 
invoices were  raised and/or  delivered to you then no costs will be lawfully due to X. Because X had 
failed to invoice Miss H, the intervention agents intended to recommend to the SRA that Miss H did 
not have to pay Xs legal fees.  The intervention agents noted that the SRA could disagree  with their 
recommendation. They  also were of the view that any disbursements should  be deducted from the 
£45,000 which would  otherwise be refunded  to Miss H.
The opinion  of the intervention agents appears to have been based on the failure of X to comply with 
the SRAs rules on accounting for money paid to it by or on behalf of clients,  as opposed  to an 
analysis of the impact  of any breach of contract by X. Im limited to considering the latter, so I have  
gone on to consider what  the consequences  were for Miss H of Xs breach of contract in failing to 
exercise reasonable care and skill in providing  its services to her.
My starting point is that Miss H should be put in the position, as far as is practicable, she would have 
been in had X not breached  its contract  with her. Ive concluded already  that X didnt act with 
reasonable care and skill, so Ive thought about what would have been considered  reasonable care 
and skill in the circumstances, and what would  likely have resulted  had this been exercised. The 
Resolution Good Practice Guide for Family Lawyers2 says the following:
2 The Law Society Family Law Protocol asks that solicitors follow  the Resolution codes.  
https://resolution.org.uk/resolutions-good-practice-guides/good-practice-guide-for-family-lawyers-working-
Ref: DRN513275420Clients must be given information about MIAM sessions and that they are compulsory in all cases 
unless one of the limited exceptions apply.  If a client is unwilling to attend a MIAM they cannot  be 
forced to do so, but they should be aware of the risk of the court adjourning the proceedings and 
directing that alternative dispute resolution  is attempted  before the case continues. Many judges will 
want to know why mediation  hasnt been attempted  and may ask your client to explain their position: it 
could be embarrassing if the client tells the Judge  that their lawyer didnt think  it appropriate. If issuing 
court proceedings,  the pre-action  protocol  should be followed.
So it seems  exploring mediation  as X said it would do  would have been the reasonable and 
expected course of action. Based on what is known about Miss H and Ps attitudes at the time from 
their and their solicitors correspondence,  I think it is likely  that they would  have agreed to go to 
mediation, and this would have been successful. Ive gone on to establish  what  this is likely  to have 
cost Miss H.
The Government,  on its webpage about mediation  for childcare  arrangements, recommends people 
visit a particular website3 for information about mediation and its expected  costs. This website gives 
some idea of the typical costs per person.  It says an initial meeting would cost £70-100, with 
subsequent sessions costing  £120-150. Where child and financial issues are involved,  they estimate  
up to six sessions would be needed with between £500-600 to formalise the financial agreement  in a 
court order. It also says £300 should be budgeted for legal advice. This suggests  a course of 
mediation for Miss H and P would have  cost between £1,590  and £1,900 each including legal  advice. 
The mid-point between these figures is £1,745. I think its likely this is approximately what  Miss H 
would have had to pay had X supplied its services to her with reasonable skill and care.
Im currently  minded therefore, that Miss H should pay no more than £1,745 to Novitas.  Miss H 
appears to have had some  savings at the time she first contacted  X, so I think its likely she could  
have afforded  this without having to borrow money. So for that reason, and because  Ive already 
concluded Novitass decision to lend to her was irresponsible, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable for her to have to pay any interest or other fees or charges on this amount.
Miss H has referred to additional costs  she incurred after X went out of business. She says she had to 
continue paying costs associated with the mediation  X had arranged for November 2017,  such  as the 
barristers fees and the cost of room hire. They appear to have been incurred as a direct result of Xs 
breach of contract, so if Miss H can quantify and evidence these costs then Im also minded to say 
that Novitas must reimburse her for these as well. 
I think  Novitass handling  of the matter has been poor. It has drawn matters out by refusing  to accept  
that X is likely  to have done anything wrong  in respect of Miss H, and as a result failing  to examine its 
responsibilities to her which flow from Xs wrongdoing.  It has maintained this position despite being 
aware of broader evidence concerning Xs activities. As a result, I think Miss H has had to go to 
extensive lengths to argue  her case   and this has caused her a significant  degree of inconvenience  
and frustration. 
Miss H has also referred  to significant negative effects on her health which  have been caused by the 
stress of these past few years.  I was very sorry to hear of this, but the root cause  appears to have 
been Xs actions, and Im unable to make an award  of compensation against Novitas to Miss H for her 
non-financial losses  caused by X. That is because losses of this type are not generally recoverable for 
a breach of contract, as Ive concluded has happened here.
Finally, Miss H has complained about Novitas agreeing to the £45,000 drawdown  at the beginning of 
the agreement, and not intervening earlier when it ought to have suspected X was behaving 
dishonestly. I dont  think  this is something I need to make  a finding on in her case as it would not 
with-clients/   
3 The name  of this website appeared in the original provisional decision. It has been removed from the 
final decision  to ensure proper anonymisation.
Ref: DRN513275421change my recommendations on how Novitas should put things right for her. Ultimately, I think Miss H 
should pay no more  than she would  likely have done, had Novitas  not lent to her irresponsibly, and 
had X exercised reasonable  skill and care. 
However, taking into account the impact of Novitass  poor handling of Miss Hs concerns overall, I am 
minded to award an additional £300 compensation  to Miss H.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined and explained  above, I intend  to uphold this complaint and direct Novitas 
Loans Ltd to take the following steps with respect to Miss H:
5.End her loan agreement and remove any reference  to it on her credit file.
6.Cap her liability for any debt which  arose under the loan agreement, to £1,745. If she has 
already paid this amount  then any overpayments  must be returned to her with 8% simple 
interest per year* added, calculated from the date she made  the overpayments, to the date 
she is refunded. If she has not yet paid this amount  then Novitas must  attempt to arrange an 
affordable plan for repayment of the outstanding debt.
7.Pay her £300 compensation.
8.Reimburse reasonable costs incurred by her in completing the mediation arranged by X for 
November 2017, upon receipt  of evidence of her having paid these  costs. 8% simple  interest 
per year*  should be added  to any reimbursed amounts,  calculated as per point 2 above.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to let me have any additional evidence  or arguments they 
would like me to consider.  I would ask that they provide  this by 5 June 2021, though in light of the 
lengthy history of this case I will consider  reasonable  extensions to this deadline. Once  all further 
submissions have been received,  I will consider the case again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5132754