K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his father  Mr A about issues hes experienced with a mobile  
phone supplied under  an agreement with Telefonica  UK Limited.
background
Mr A was supplied with a new mobile  phone and entered into a finance agreement  with O2. 
The agreement was for a term of 24 months.
Shortly after the term ended the phone stopped working. Mr A reported  this to O2, who 
offered to meet 50% of the repair costs.  Mr A took the phone in for repair  but the 
manufacturer said it wasnt possible to repair it and said it would swap it for another one but 
because it was out of warranty  this would  be at Mr As own cost.
Mr A complained to this service. He doesnt think the phone  was of satisfactory  quality 
because it only lasted  2 years.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that because  Mr A hadnt experienced 
any issues with the phone  for the first 2 years, and because she hadnt been  provided with 
any evidence to show that the phone  was faulty at the point of supply, she wasnt persuaded 
that the phone was of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr A didnt agree. He said there  was no damage  to the phone and that it had simply stopped 
working. He said that similar models from 2010 were still working and he thought  the phones 
were made to last. Mr A also said the phone froze  periodically during the first 2 years but he 
didnt know whether this was the cause of the problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant law theres an implied  term that the phone is of satisfactory quality  and fit 
for purpose.  Phones are of satisfactory  quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable 
person would expect,  taking  into account  things such as the price paid and the description of 
the goods.
Id expect a brand new phone, such as that supplied to Mr A, to be in very good  condition 
and free from minor  defects.
Mr A used the phone  for approximately 2 years  before it stopped working. He said that the 
screen froze sometimes but that he resolved this by switching the phone  off and on again.
Ive thought about this but if the screen froze as regularly  as Mr A has said then I would have  
expected him to report this to either O2 or the manufacturer. I cant see that hes done this. 
Nor is there anything to suggest that the screen freezing is related to the current problem.
Ive thought about whether its reasonable for a phone to stop working after 2 years. In cases  
like this, its difficult to know what caused  the issue. The report from the manufacturer 
doesnt really help here, except to confirm that it isnt water damage. I dont think its likely 
that the phone was faulty at the point of sale because with something like a phone  which  is 
Ref: DRN56771992in daily use, I wouldve  expected the fault to present itself sooner. But in this case, the phone  
has performed as expected for over 2 years.
I appreciate Mr As disappointment  but Im unable to say that the phone isnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Its frustrating  for Mr A that the phone  cant be repaired but I dont  think  O2 acted unfairly 
when it offered to meet 50% of the repair costs. Its not O2s responsibility that the 
manufacturer isnt able to repair the phone.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5677199