K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that a car supplied  to her under a finance agreement with 
First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss M bought a used car in May 2018.  The car had covered 111,901 miles at the point of 
sale and was around 13 years old. The car cost £2508 which  Miss M financed with an 
agreement from FRF.
In January 2019 Miss M complained to FRF that the car had developed  a number of faults 
and was now uneconomical to repair. Miss M provided a report from a garage which set out 
the faults with the car.
FRF responded that as there was no evidence  that these faults were present at the point  of 
sale it was not responsible and so Miss M brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think FRF had done anything wrong. Having looked at the age and 
mileage of the car and the miles  travelled  by Miss M and taking into account the faults 
described by the garage he wasnt able to conclude that the faults  were  there at the point  of 
sale.
Miss M didnt agree and replied to say in summary  that the car had numerous faults and 
wasnt fit for purpose at the time of supply. Miss M asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Miss M and the 
financial and mechanical difficulties she has had with her car.
FRF, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality at the point Miss M bought it. Whether or not something is of satisfactory quality 
depends on a number of things such as the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it. In Miss Ms case the car was thirteen  years  old and had covered 111,901 
miles. The car cost £2508. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time but again 
that will depend on the age of the car and the amount  of miles covered.
This car had covered  a significant amount of miles before  Miss M bought it and so I would 
expect that components would be wearing out and needing replacement. I can see that Miss 
M had the car for around 8 months and had travelled just over 3000 miles before the faults  
appeared. 
If the car had had these faults  at the point of supply I would  expect Miss M to have had 
problems starting the car and noticing  smoke before January 2018. If the car had significant 
electrical faults that were there or developing at the point of sale, again I would have 
expected these to have  been evident  within the first few months.
Ref: DRN57352622I have looked  at the list of faults  outlined by the garage.  I can see that the injectors  are 
showing signs of wear  which is to be expected  in a car of this age and mileage. I am unable 
to say that hey were  not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  I sympathise with Miss M 
that the cost of replacing the injectors is likely to be more than the car is worth but I dont 
think this is enough  to say that the car isnt of satisfactory  quality.
In order for me to be persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality I would have to 
be satisfied that the issues  as set out by the garage were  there  or developing at the point of 
sale. I dont have an independent inspection report to help me and I cant say on the basis  of 
the information I have seen from the garage  that the issues outlined were there or 
developing at the point of sale given  the overall age and condition of this car. I think it is 
more likely that these  issues  developed  over time and were  as a result  of wear and tear. So I 
cant say that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point of sale.
I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  Miss M was hoping for but in these  circumstances I 
cant ask FRF to do any more. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5735262