K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his personal accident insurance claim.
background
Mr S has a personal accident insurance  policy through  his bank. Aviva is the insurer.
Mr S says in mid 2017 he injured his back when  driving over an uneven surface at work. He 
says his back pain was made worse following a car accident in autumn 2017 and he now 
has permanent back problems meaning  hes not able to work. He made  one claim for both 
accidents.
Aviva declined the claim. It says theres  no evidence that Mr S injury  resulted from 
either the workplace  accident or the road accident.  It says the medical  evidence  shows Mr S 
has a degenerative condition, which isnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr S complained to us that Aviva  used the wrong  basis or wrong information to decline his 
claim. He wants Aviva  to pay his claim.  Hes represented by his daughter  but for simplicity Ill 
just refer to Mr S.
Our investigator thought Aviva acted  fairly  in declining the claim.
Mr S then provided a further medical  report  from November 2017 and a letter  from his GP 
dated January  2018.
We sent the new evidence to Aviva  for its comments. It noted that the 2017 medical 
evidence said Mr S was expected  to make a full recovery  within  6 months  of the 2017  report  
date. Further investigations showed  he had degenerative changes. So Aviva  said Mr S didnt 
have a permanent  injury due to the accident/s  and it still declined  the claim. 
Our investigator explained why she still thought Aviva fairly declined  the claim.
Mr S wants  an ombudsmans  decision.  He said he might be able to get new medical 
evidence to support  his claim. But at the time of making my decision weve received no new 
evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S. I understand he has continuing  back  pain and isnt working. But 
I have to decide whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably  in declining  the claim, and on the 
evidence I have I think it did. 
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN57043902The personal accident policy says:
This insurance is intended to cover an insured person against injuries or death which 
is a direct result of an accident only. It does not provide  cover  in the event of injury or 
death caused by illness or disease.
The policy defines  accident as:
a single, unexpected, unforeseen and unintentional  incident and is not a symptom of 
a disease or illness.
So for Mr S to make a successful claim under the policy he has to show he had an incident 
which meets  the definition  of an accident.  He also has to show  the accident/s  caused him 
injury thats covered by the policy. 
Mr S says he had two accidents in 2017. From  the evidence I have I think  both incidents 
meet the policy definition  of an accident  in that they were  unexpected, unforeseen and 
unintentional. 
But Mr S still needs to show the accident/s  directly caused an injury which  was covered by 
the policy terms.
Although the policy terms say the injury has to be a direct result  of the accident only, on a 
fair and reasonable basis we also consider whether theres evidence  that the accident 
significantly contributed  to the injury. If we think the accident did significantly  contribute  to 
the injury we may tell an insurer to pay a proportion  of the policy  benefit.  
The policy table of benefits sets out what the policy covers. I understand Aviva considered 
the claim under two policy sections.
Section D  Break, burns and dislocations  of the policy covers a spine  injury  but only if 
there has been a broken bone or a fracture.  
Mr S was seen by neurosurgery specialist, who Ill refer to Mr R. His June 2018 report  says 
theres no evidence  of any fracture  from the trauma (Mr S) stated he had.
As Mr Rs report says theres no evidence Mr S had a fracture from the two accidents I think  
Aviva fairly declined the claim  under Section  D of the policy.
Aviva also considered the claim under Section  B - Permanent Bodily  Injury  of the policy  
which says:
If an insured person  suffers an accident which directly results in permanent injury 
that is not covered elsewhere under this insurance  and this entirely  prevents  them  
from following any occupation  suited  to their education, experience  and capability, we 
will pay the benefit shown  in the table  of benefits for other permanent injury.
Aviva said the medical evidence doesnt show Mr S permanent back problems are due to 
injury covered by the policy but due to Mr S having a degenerative  condition.
Ive looked at the medical evidence including the new evidence Mr S sent. The medical 
evidence is:
Ref: DRN57043903records from Mr S GP (who Ill refer to as Dr B) from June 2017 to October 2018 
which detail Mr S treatment 
findings from a July 2017  MRI scan which show Mr S had some  degeneration in two 
lower lumbar discs  and a mid disc bulge  causing  slight stenosis 
a report dated  November 2017  from a doctor  (who Ill refer to as Dr J) which appears 
to have been prepared on behalf  of other  insurers in support of a claim following 
Mr S road accident. Dr J says he apportions Mr S time off work  due to his injuries as 
70% due to the road accident  and 30% due to the work accident.  Dr J also says he 
would expect Mr S to have a full recovery from his lower  back pain over the 
following six months (from November 2017)
Dr Bs letter of January 2018  which says Mr S had had lower back  pain since  an 
accident at work in mid 2017  which got worse since the 2017 car accident. Dr B says 
Mr S hadnt been seen in the surgery for back pain before  mid 2017 
an occupational  health report from April 2018 following a doctors assessment 
arranged by Mr S employer. That doctor says I cannot apportion the cause of 
(Mr S) back pain in any percentage  to the incident at work  or to the road traffic 
accident in regard to causation
Mr Rs June 2018 report. He says Mr S has a natural history of lumbar spondylosis , 
Mr Rs report also says I have explained  to him that his low backache and leg pain is 
radiated from the degenerative changes in his lumbar  spine. There  is no neural 
compression to address surgically 
a physiotherapists  letter of April 2018  which says Mr S has a diagnosis  of lumbar  
hypomobility
another physiotherapists letter of July 2018 which says Mr S is a complex patient 
and I am unable to find a definite reasons for his ongoing severe pain
Dr Bs letter of July 2018 which says the MRI scans  of Mr S back  in 2017 showed 
degenerative changes and a July 2018  scan on his neck  shows  some disc 
degeneration and stenosis. The July MRI 2018  record says Mr M has mild foraminal 
stenosis. The letter also says Mr S back degeneration and neck stenosis is 
permanent and he is unable to work  due to back and neck  pain. 
Ive also seen a report from November 2018 from a pain management clinic Mr S attended 
which records what Mr S says about how his back pain happened  so that isnt independent 
medical evidence.
I think the medical evidence shows several  things contributed to Mr S back  problem which  
include:
his accident  at work in mid 2017, and
the car accident  in autumn 2017, and
his degenerative medical condition which is referred to in the physiotherapists letter 
of April 2018, Mr Rs report, Dr Bs July 2018 letter  and the MRI scans.
Ref: DRN57043904Theres no medical evidence that Mr S ongoing  back pain is solely  related  to either or both 
of the accidents,  as the policy terms require.
I have considered whether it would be fair for me to award a partial settlement based on how 
much of Mr S ongoing back pain is caused by the accident/s and how much by his 
degenerative medical condition.
But the policy terms say for the benefit  to be payable  the injury  must be permanent. The 
accident/s need to have  caused (or partly caused) that permanent  injury.
Theres no medical evidence that shows Mr S permanent  back  pain was caused  by the 
accident/s:
Dr Js report  says he expects Mr S would make  a full recovery  from his lower back 
pain after six months from November 2017  
the occupational health report says Mr S wont be able to work for the next three 
months from April 2018, maybe longer but theres no suggestion that his injuries  
would be permanent   
Dr B's July 2018 letter  says Mr S is unable to work due to back and neck  pain. But 
his comments in the letter are evidence that Mr S permanent back problems are a 
result of degenerative  changes and not due to the accident/s.
On the medical  evidence  I have I think Aviva fairly declined  the claim. 
Mr S now says hes spoken to the hospital which said they didnt know about the accident 
when he had the first MRI scan so they said the problem was degenerative. I havent seen 
any medical evidence  to confirm the MRI scan showed the accident  as the cause of his back  
pain. Also, theres other  medical evidence that Mr S has a degenerative  medical  condition  
which has caused his permanent problem.
If Mr S does get new medical  evidence which he thinks supports his claim he'll need to send 
it to Aviva who should reasonably assess the new evidence.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5704390