K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs N complain that NRAM Limited  should  refund part of consent to let fee that 
they paid when they changed lender.
background
Mr H and Mrs N asked NRAM if they could  let out their property. At that stage they were  
paying two mortgage and wanted to let out this property. NRAM sent them  an illustration  on 
13 June 2018  with a consent  to let pack. Mr H and Mrs N completed the application which 
was successful so that they could let the property for a year and paid a fee of £1,250. In 
October 2018 Mr H and Mrs N sold the property  and believe they should get a refund given 
that they hadnt let the property out for a year.
NRAM said that Mr H and Mrs N were  aware  of the fee before they made the application  and 
that it was non-refundable. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as he felt that NRAM had done  nothing wrong. Mr H and Mrs N disagree saying in 
summary that NRAM would have  known that they were going  to move lender as they had 
got poor service  from them in the past and previously NRAM had only charged  £250 for a 
consent to let application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Mrs N had a residential  mortgage with NRAM on a property which they wanted  to 
let out. NRAM gave them a consent to let which effectively amended the mortgage 
conditions that had prevented letting out and allowed them to let their property for 12 
months. For NRAM  to do that, Mr H and Mrs N paid £1,250 which  was the fee NRAM 
charged for granting  that permission.  When NRAM gave its consent, it had performed its part 
of the bargain   it had granted the application  - and was entitled to the payment of £1,250.  
As things  turned out, Mr H and Mrs N didnt let out the property for a year but sold it. But that 
was their own choice. As NRAM  had already  done  what it said it would  do, I wouldnt expect 
it to refund  the agreed fee. There was no provision in the agreement  for NRAM to refund  part 
of the fee if for example Mr H and Mrs N couldnt  let out the property or, as here,  decided  to 
sell it. In case there was any doubt I see that on the documentation provided to Mr H and 
Mrs N it says that the fee paid was non-refundable. But I dont believe that in any case, given 
that NRAM had done  what it said it would do that Mr H and Mrs N could reasonably require 
NRAM to refund this fee. 
Mr H and Mrs N say that they paid a smaller  fee for a consent to let before. That may be true 
but of course  they might in the past have had to pay a higher rate of interest  for a consent to 
let. But in this case they knew what the cost would be and accepted it. I note that Mr H and 
Mrs N have had other  issues with NRAM. I can only look at the complaint in front of me and 
for the reasons set out above  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN55517612my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5551761