K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited led him to believe, from 2012  on, 
that one of his with-profits plans was likely to pay out far more at maturity  than was the case. 
He also queried  how the terminal bonus could have fallen so significantly in the final two 
years.
background
An adjudicator at this service  acknowledged  that Aviva had accepted it had led Mr C to 
believe that the terminal bonus  was likely  to be higher than it turned out to be  and that it 
had offered him £350 in lieu of the trouble and upset this had caused.
He explained  that the first plan, set up in 1972, was initially set up on a non-profits basis  and 
wasnt altered to a with-profits one until 1978.  Aviva, however, wrongly estimated the 
terminal bonus on the basis that it had always been a with-profits policy.  He said Aviva  had 
always offered the correct  estimates  for Mr Cs second plan, set up in 1975. 
He noted that in 2012 Aviva Life quoted a terminal bonus of 110% on the first plan. 
Thereafter, up until May 2018, quotes varied  from 102% to 116%. So he understood why Mr 
C had been so disappointed with the eventual maturity bonus.
That said,  he pointed out that any terminal bonus rates quoted were never guaranteed and 
Mr C would have known  that the rate applicable  on the 1975  plan reduced from 90% in 2016 
to 59% by May 2018  (just prior to maturity).
He also noted  that from 2015 the 1975 plan terminal bonus quotes started to reduce 
significantly compared to the 1972  plan. A letter  from Aviva  in 2016 quoted a surrender value 
of less than the ultimate maturity sum. So he felt Mr C should have been aware for the past 
three years that the maturity sum was likely to be far less than indicated earlier.
He recognised that Mr C was expecting to receive £3,650 more than was the case but he 
said he was never entitled  to this. He also felt Aviva  Life had made a genuine effort  to 
resolve his complaint speedily, and did so before  the plan actually matured on 19 June 2018.
He said Mr C received a letter of 16 May 2018 confirming the correct  terminal  bonus  rate. If 
he was told the incorrect terminal bonus  rate again  on 29 May 2018  then it appears this was 
rectified straight away as he was able to make a complaint the next day.
He explained  that terminal bonuses for policies with terms of more than 44 years  were 
proving significantly  higher  than those with shorter terms. This explained why the bonus 
quoted in recent years for a 44 year term was so much higher  than for a 40 year term.
He said this service cannot investigate concerns relating  purely to investment performance 
or how a business  decides on the terminal bonus  for a particular with-profits plan. Aviva Life 
was able to make decisions about  terminal bonus rates on its with-profits  plans at its own 
discretion, in his view.
Mr C did not agree, and said:
Ref: DRN52811792He was misled by Aviva for about six years about the value  of his plan. His loss of 
expectation was more than £3,500 and he doesnt feel an offer of £350 is fair or 
reasonable
It should meet his expectation, which was established through regular and consistent 
dialogue over many years, and honour the 109% basis of calculating the terminal  
bonus, and based  on its advice given  over the phone on 29 May 2018
So it should make  an additional payment of £3,640.40
It should also make a further payment  for the considerable trouble and upset caused 
by misleading him every year since 2012  and for the other failures  to provide clear 
communication
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Where a business has made a mistake we expect  it to put the consumer back  in the position  
they would  be in but for that mistake. So if Aviva  had calculated  the terminal  bonus 
incorrectly and paid out less than Mr C was entitled  to we would instruct  it to pay the correct  
amount. But in this case Avivas error  was to repeatedly give Mr C misinformation about the 
likely terminal bonus on one of his policies. What it should have done is give him the correct  
information based on his first policy  being set up initially on a non-profits  basis i.e. made 
clear that any bonus would  be based  on only part of the years  hed held the policy.
In other  words, Mr C was never entitled  to the higher projected final bonuses  that were  
quoted so I cannot instruct Aviva  to pay a sum which had never been accrued within this 
policy. This would  be to pay Mr C more than he was owed.
All I can do is assess the undoubted disappointment and upset this repeated mistake 
caused, something which led to Mr C to believe  for a number of years  that he was likely  
to get £3,000 plus more  than he eventually received.
I note that the adjudicator sent Mr C examples of the sort of awards this service typically 
uses in these types of situations. For the reasons he outlined,  I feel Avivas  £350 was a 
reasonable offer. 
I note Mr C and the adjudicator recently  also discussed other issues, including  a surrender 
request. These appear to have been  resolved, and I have seen no evidence to indicate that 
Aviva did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN52811793my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5281179