K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) failed to give sufficient  notice 
of her fixed rate mortgage product reaching  its expiry. 
background
Mrs K took out a fixed rate mortgage product with TMW in 2015,  which  was due to expire  on 
28 February 2018. 
Mrs K received a letter from TMW on 16 February 2018, reminding her to switch her account 
before her existing products expiry;  otherwise  it would be automatically transferred  to a 
managed rate as of 1 March 2018. Mrs K went online on 26 February 2018 to switch her 
account, but discovered that she was two days after the cut-off date for arranging another 
fixed rate product to begin on 1 March 2018.  This meant that Mrs K had to pay interest at the 
managed rate for four weeks as her new mortgage product was scheduled to take effect 
from 1 April 2018.
Mrs K complained as she had not been made  aware  of the cut-off  date for arranging  a new 
mortgage product.  But TMW  say they sent Mrs K a letter on 1 January 2018 which said:
you can apply to switch  to a new mortgage deal at any time  but if you want it to 
start before your Managed Rate kicks in on 1 March 2018, then your application will 
need to have been received and accepted by 24 February 2018. So please give 
yourself plenty of time to submit your application.
Mrs K says she never received this letter, and was only sent the reminder  on 
16 February 2018, which did not give any information about the cut-off  date outlined in the 
earlier correspondence. So she submits  that TMW should backdate  her new mortgage rate 
to 1 March 2018 and refund her the additional interest she had to pay under the managed 
rate. Mrs K also complained about  the poor service shed received, as she was often told 
she would  be called  back, but never received any contact.
TMW refused to reimburse  Mrs K the difference in interest, arguing that they were  under no 
regulatory obligation to remind their customers about mortgage products expiring, but that 
they had sent her a letter outlining this information  in any event.  TMW  accepted that the 
service Mrs K received  had, on occasion, fallen below standard, so they offered her £50 
compensation. Unhappy with this, Mrs K brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt it was likely the letter  had been  sent,  
but thought it wasnt  TMWs responsibility  to ensure  another  rate had been arranged prior to 
the cut-off date,  so she didnt think it would be fair to ask them  to repay  the difference  in 
interest. And with regards  to the service  failings, the investigator felt that £50 was fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
Mrs K disagreed, saying  she had been told by one of TMWs advisors that they were obliged 
to send such letters, and maintains that she did not receive  it. So the complaint has been  
passed to me.
Ref: DRN59032702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mrs K says she was told by one of TMWs  advisors that they were obliged to remind  
customers that their fixed rate product was coming to an end. But whether or not they were 
obliged to do so, I can see that theyve sought  to remind Mrs K in any event by sending  the 
reminder letters. 
I acknowledge what Mrs K has said regarding  the fact that she didnt receive the first letter 
that provided the cut-off date. But I can see that the first letter  was correctly addressed to the 
same residence in which the second  letter was eventually received. I appreciate  that letters 
can sometimes go missing or are misplaced. But I have account of the fact that the vast 
majority of mail that is correctly addressed is safely received. So although I cant say for 
definite whether  Mrs K did receive  the first letter, the fact that she received the second letter  
leads me to believe its more likely than not that the first letter  was also sent.
But in any event, the expiry date of Mrs Ks mortgage product was made clear within her 
mortgage offer. So it was her responsibility  to ensure she left enough  time to make 
alternative arrangements if she didnt  want her mortgage to revert to the managed rate upon  
expiry. In the circumstances, TMW required five days notice, which  I dont think is an 
unreasonable timeframe  in which to review and process an application  for a new mortgage  
product, and I note that this information is also available on their website. So I cant fairly 
hold TMW liable for something  which is ultimately Mrs Ks responsibility.
This leaves  the matter  of whether the compensation offered  for the poor service received is 
fair and reasonable. Mrs K doesnt feel that £50 is commensurate to the experience  shes 
had. Ive considered  the service Mrs K received,  and its clear that shes been  left frustrated 
and inconvenienced by the actions of TMW. I can see, for example, that she has had to 
chase up responses  on a number of occasions, and may have been given misleading 
information by the agent handling her complaint. But I have to consider whether, in the 
circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mrs K, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions 
of TMW have had a greater impact  than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant 
say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  frustrating for Mrs K, but I dont consider the 
actions of TMW to warrant any further compensation at a higher level.  And for the times 
when their service did fall below standard, I consider £50 to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances, which I understand has already been paid to Mrs K.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN59032703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5903270