K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with her home  insurance  
claim for fire damage particularly to her contents.
background
In 2013 Mrs C had a fire at her home, caused  by a faulty fridge freezer in her kitchen. The 
repairs to the building were agreed  and in 2014 she agreed a settlement of £76,000  for that. 
But Mrs C has been in dispute with AXA over her contents ever since. This relates to the 
original smoke damaged  items, other items  that were returned from the restorers damaged, 
items she alleges were lost and other items for which she is unhappy with the cleaning  
carried out. She has further refused  to agree the return of items  from storage  until they are 
fully cleaned/restored.
AXA has paid the following interim  payments:
£70,000 for the damaged beyond  economic  repair  contents.  This includes £8,116.29 in 
lieu of restoring a number of items.
£7,140 for damaged furniture.
£1,400 (paid  by the contractors) for damaged clothing.
Mrs C doesnt accept  that the payments  are sufficient.  She is claiming at least another 
£36,000. AXA has throughout the claim said its willing to revise any offers  if Mrs C can 
produce specific proof of value or details of labels/places of purchase.  This applies 
particularly to the clothes. As far as the items Mrs C alleges the restorers have damaged, 
they have confirmed that they believe their offer in respect of any such items  is reasonable. 
They dont accept  that they have  any liability for further compensation. At present they have  
a number of items in storage which wont be released until the storage charges are paid. On 
11 January 2018  the restorers wrote to Mrs C to warn her about  the storage charges and to 
say she would be liable personally for them from 1 February 2018.  So far Mrs C has refused 
to take delivery  or to pay any storage charges.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that AXAs  approach was reasonable and 
that its payments  were  fair. If Mrs C thought she was owed more  it was up to her to provide 
more specific information. He did however think that AXA had allowed the dispute over the 
contents to drag on for too long. So he said it should  pay £350 compensation which it agreed 
to (and has since paid). With regard  to the storage costs, whilst he could see that AXA 
shouldnt be liable for them, it should nevertheless pay them  and arrange  return  of Mrs Cs 
items. It would be up to AXA whether it tried to recover the storage charges from Mrs C.
AXA didnt agree in respect  of the storage  charges and return  of the items.  . It said that the 
restorers had written to Mrs C to advise she would  be liable for storage charges and that she 
had consistently  refused  either to pay them or to accept return  of her items. It had no control  
over the restorers, who wont  release  the items without  its charges being paid. Alternatively it 
suggested that Mrs C allow  the restorers  to sell the items. 
Mrs C also didnt agree  with the investigators  view. She felt that she had shown that her lost 
or damaged items were  worth a lot more than AXA was offering and that it was up to AXA to 
offer her a reasonable settlement for them.
Ref: DRN57805162I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although I agreed with most of the 
investigators findings I couldnt hold AXA liable for the storage charges after February  2018.
AXA said it had no further comment to make.
Mrs C disagreed with my decision.  She said:
The items were delivered to her new address so there was no question of them being lost in 
the move.
80% of her clothes furniture mirrors  and pictures  etc are not fit for the purpose they are 
intended for. Both restorers have paid a sorry compensation for the stress and nightmare 
she has been through.
She has asked for records and photos from the restorers but received no response.  She has 
done countless lists.
She doesnt agree that she is responsible for storage charges  she has never  received a bill 
and believes  this to be a matter between the restorers and AXA.
She is still missing a pair of designer  boots  and a designer handbag which  she says the 
restorers lost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
Mrs Cs complaints relate to:
Items  that were  smoke damaged in the original  fire.
Items  of furniture which werent  restored or were poorly restored.
Items  which were returned  damaged.
Items  which were lost.
Items  which were not cleaned properly.
She believes she hasnt  had a reasonable settlement  for any of those items.
smoke damaged items
AXA has paid Mrs C £70,000.  This includes £8,116.29 in lieu of restoring some items, which 
Ill deal with below.  So far as the bulk of the items  are concerned numerous lists have been  
exchanged and gone through with Mrs C. AXA has assessed the items for which it is liable 
and paid what was in my view a reasonable settlement.  I understand that Mrs C believes the 
items to be worth  more  than AXA has assessed. But Mrs C was asked on a number of 
occasions to provide  a detailed breakdown of the costs  she disagreed with and provide her 
own value, but she has declined to do this. I think AXA has tried to be as pragmatic as 
possible but it is up to Mrs C to provide the information it needs to justify  paying more.
Ref: DRN57805163items of furniture which werent  restored or were poorly restored
As Ive said AXA has provided  a payment  of £8,116.29 to compensate  Mrs C for items which 
havent been restored or which have been  restored  badly. AXA has confirmed as an 
alternative it was prepared to arrange  for the further  restoration of the items. So it would only 
pay what it would cost it to have the items restored. I think thats reasonable since it appears 
the items  in question  are capable of restoration. I havent seen evidence  from Mrs C that the 
cost to her of having the items restored would be such  as to justify  any higher payment. In 
particular AXA said that where items are deemed capable  of being repaired it isnt prepared 
to offer a payment  in respect of any depreciation in the value of the item.  AXA has confirmed 
that it would  be prepared to be generous if Mrs C were to provide it with specific evidence  of 
value. I think AXAs position is reasonable here.
items which were returned  damaged
This is a contentious issue, as a number of the items Mrs C alleges were  damaged  were  
inspected by the restorers  and issues  over them werent raised by her at the time.  The 
restorers arent prepared to offer any more  payment  or to carry out any further restoration. 
AXA has said that the restorers have carried out the repairs diligently and in accordance with 
policy liability. It further points out that Mrs C has moved home since  the claim so its quite 
possible items were damaged in the removal. This matter has been going on for a number of 
years which makes it all the more difficult to assess. AXA says the global settlement includes 
any items recognised  as damaged at the time. Ultimately without further evidence I simply 
cant say which side is right so unfortunately I cant make a finding about it.
items which were lost
Again I think its difficult to make an assessment about these.  The restorers have provided 
full lists to Mrs C of the items they have in storage. And a number of lists of the items have 
been circulated.  I understand  that Mrs C believes a proper record  wasnt  kept. But ultimately 
unless Mrs C is able to show  that she had the items  before  the claim its not going to be 
possible to say whether  AXA was responsible for losing any specific  items.
items which were not cleaned properly
This relates  to clothing cleaned by a contractor. Some items werent cleaned correctly  and 
other items couldnt  be cleaned. Mrs C was offered a total of £1,400.  Again the contractor 
asked Mrs C for details and sent out a representative to look at the items. It then sent her a 
spreadsheet to complete so it could  assess the value. Mrs C wouldnt complete  it expecting 
the contractors to carry out the research. AXA says it cant offer any more without further 
details from Mrs C. I think AXA has acted reasonably in this respect.
storage of items
It was proposed that AXA pay Mrs Cs storage charges to date and arrange return  of the 
items in storage.  AXA has explained  that it has no control over this process  so is unwilling to 
do that. And whilst I can see that it would  be a pragmatic solution,  Mrs C has had it 
explained to her that storage charges would start accruing from February  2018. I appreciate 
that Mrs C still regards  herself as being  in dispute with AXA over the items in storage. But as 
she has been told a number of times it is for her to show that the offers made to her so far 
have been unreasonable.
Ref: DRN57805164Theres also no guarantee that if AXA did pay the storage charges Mrs C would be willing  to 
take delivery of the items. My view is that as Ive not found AXAs position at the time of it 
telling Mrs C it wouldnt pay the charges any longer, to be unreasonable,  I cant  fairly  make it 
pay for storage  charges.  Mrs C will have to come to an agreement with the restorers  about 
the return of her items.
compensation
It does appear that this matter has dragged out for too long. I know  Mrs C took a long time to 
reply to requests  for information and essentially went  quiet for a couple of years up until 
2016. On the other hand AXA didnt issue its final payment until late 2017. I can understand 
its desire to allow  Mrs C to get back to it but the issues did keep repeating  themselves. But I 
think the payment  of compensation  of £350  is fair.
I appreciate what Mrs C says about  her items.  The argument that they might have been  lost 
or damaged when  moving home was just speculative, Ill accept what  Mrs C says in that 
respect. The overall point  in this case is that AXA, together with both restorers were  willing  to 
consider further  evidence  from Mrs C about valuation  or evidence about further costs to her 
of restoring various items. Although shes  said she has completed countless lists, the 
evidence, from considering AXAs copious file, is that she hasnt provided  the further 
evidence/details that AXA requires. Unless she is prepared to do that AXA cant review its 
payments.
With regard to the two items she has identified as lost, she will have to take those up with 
AXA. 
In respect of the items  stored Mrs C was made aware that storage charges would start 
accruing from February 2018. AXA paid the charges  up until then, but in the absence of her 
being able to show that the offers to her were unreasonable, I cant say that AXA should be 
liable for them. It is up to Mrs C to liaise with AXA over this. I would observe  that if she cant  
get a response  directly  from the restorers  she should  still be able to approach them  through 
AXA. 
I appreciate that Mrs C wants further records and photos from the restorers.  From what  Ive 
seen, those restorers have already supplied full lists of the items that were removed and 
returned. I wont make any further  direction in that respect.
Overall I remain  satisfied  by my provisional findings.  Those findings have now become final 
and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part but, as AXA has already paid the proposed compensation,  
wont make  any further award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780516