K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about an online payment made  from her sole current account and funded  in
part by transfers  from her savings account and a joint account. She says she didnt authorise
the internal transfers or the payment out of her current account.  Barclays  Bank UK plc has
refused to refund the payment of £468.
background
In the early hours  of 23 December 2017 two online transfers were  made  from Mrs As 
savings and joint accounts to her current  account. Shortly  after that, £468 was transferred  to 
someone elses account.
Mrs A says that she checked  her account  using  the banks mobile app the following morning 
and noticed the transactions that had taken place  several hours earlier. She called Barclays  
to say she didnt  recognise them, and the bank investigated what had happened.
The banks records showed that, shortly before the disputed  transactions  were made, the 
mobile number registered  to Mrs As account  had been changed. The payment had been 
referred by message sent to the (changed) mobile number, but released shortly afterwards. 
There was an attempt  to make a further payment a little later,  but that was declined  because 
there were insufficient funds in Mrs As account.
The banks investigations also showed that the device used to access Mrs As account had a 
different IP address  from the one she generally  used.  It appears that device was in or near 
Leicester, about  150 miles from Mrs As home in Southampton.
Mrs A says she was in bed asleep  when the transactions took place, between  about 1am 
and 2am. Barclays says,  however, that online banking  was accessed using one of its 
PINSentry devices with the card linked to Mrs As account and the correct PIN. Because of 
this, and because  it was unable to identify  any point of compromise of the card or PIN, the 
bank refused to make  a refund. It had managed to recover some  funds from the receiving 
bank, but returned these  when it decided that Mrs A should be held liable for the payment. It 
did, however, pay her £75 in recognition  of the way it had handled  the complaint.
Mrs A also said that she was later contacted by someone linked to the person who received 
the funds, threatening her because shed  reported  the matter.  She reported  that call to the 
police.
Mrs A complained to this service, and her complaint  was investigated by one of our 
adjudicators. He said he thought Barclays should  refund the money. He thought the payment 
hadnt been authorised  by Mrs A but that she might  have been  tricked into handing  over 
security information.
Barclays didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions  and asked  that an ombudsman 
review the case.  I did that but didnt  feel that I could properly reach  the same conclusion  as 
the adjudicator  had. I therefore issued a provisional decision so that both parties  but in 
particular Mrs A  could provide more information.  
Ref: DRN53445142In summary,  my provisional findings were:
It appeared  that the transfers had been  made  from a device in the Leicester area, a 
long way from where  Mrs A said that she (and her card) had been at the time. 
Whoever made the transfers  had enough information to be able to access Mrs As 
accounts online.  They also either  had her card and knew  her PIN or had been told the 
codes generated  by a PINSentry device.  
At the time of the transactions, Mrs A may have at home asleep, and she may have had 
her card with her; but both cannot have been true. 
The adjudicator had thought that someone might have persuaded Mrs A to provide the 
PINSentry codes to them. There was however nothing in Mrs As account of events to 
suggest that had happened.  
I couldnt  therefore reach the same  conclusion as the adjudicator, and I didnt 
recommend that Barclays refund  the disputed payment or do anything  further  to resolve 
the complaint.  
Mrs A didnt accept my provisional  conclusions. She said that she thought  this service  
should have looked at where the money had gone and repeated that the people who took it 
had threatened  her and her family. She didnt,  however, provide any more information about  
what had happened  at the time of the transfers or, importantly, how someone  150 miles  
away from her and her card could have  obtained the PINSentry  codes to facilitate the 
disputed transactions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent, however, found any reason to 
change my opinion  from that set out in my provisional decision. 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt believe  that, at the time of the disputed 
transactions, Mrs A could  have been  asleep  and have her bank card with her. It was used to 
generate PINSentry  codes at the time of those  transactions. So, either  she was generating 
those codes and passing them on or someone  else had her card and PIN. Im afraid though 
that her response to my provisional  findings hasnt addressed  that point. 
Mrs A said she thought this service  should  have looked more closely at where the money 
was transferred to. But my primary role in looking at her complaint is to consider whether 
Barclays was justified  in allowing  the transfer  and then in declining her request for a refund  
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable. I have no power to investigate the recipient of 
the funds. 
I do note however what Mrs A says about  the subsequent contact with the person who took 
the money, or with people known to them. Its extremely  unusual for someone  who has taken  
money in this way then to contact their victim.  That leads  me to believe that Mrs A may know  
who took the money from her account;  at the very least, I believe she knows more  than shes 
been prepared  to tell this service or Barclays.          
Ref: DRN53445143Thats not to say that Mrs A hasnt had money taken from her; I accept that she has. But 
without a full account of how that happened  which only she can provide  I dont believe it 
would be fair for me to require that the bank refund it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mrs As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5344514