K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how Barclays Bank  UK PLC dealt with Mr Ls attempt to 
request a new account card following a theft.
background
Mr L says that his account card was stolen and so he called Barclays  to arrange a new card. 
He says his wife was present when he called Barclays and that he made that clear  and 
asked her for the answers  to some of the security questions. Mr L says he couldnt  be 
expected to have known  the answer to some of those questions  such as the sort code and 
account number.  He says he wasnt told there was a problem and questions why Barclays  
would block his account but not order a new card for him. He also questions Barclays  
procedure for this type of problem and says its customer service was poor.
Mr L would  like Barclays to apologise  for what took place and answer the questions  he 
raised.
Barclays says its advisor  acted in line with its procedure and policies to protect an account 
where Mr L was being given  certain answers  by someone else. It says it gave Mr L the 
option of calling back or attending a branch with identification. Barclays says it could have 
told Mr L earlier during  the call that answers  needed to come from him and that its standard 
practice is to block an account  in those circumstances. It says it cant say why Mr L wasnt  
told that he could  order a new card via online banking.
Mr and Mrs L had brought  the complaint to us and our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. The 
adjudicator thought that Mr L had been prompted  during  the call and that the account terms 
and conditions say that Barclays in those  circumstances doesnt have to follow  instructions. 
The adjudicator accepted  that Mr L could have been  told earlier in the call about third party 
instructions or prompting but didnt  think that would have affected the overall outcome. The 
adjudicator didnt think it our role to tell a business what its security policies should be.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and says Barclays should have told him answers  needed to 
come from him and says it should have told him he could have ordered a new card online.  
He says its unreasonable to have expected him to have  recalled  that information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs L will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how long they have been waiting for a final 
decision on their complaint.
I accept there is a difficult balance when dealing  with these  sorts  of complaints. There is no 
doubt that it was Mr L that called Barclays and so I appreciate his frustration in not being 
able to pass security. And I accept it would be difficult to recall  such  details as sort codes 
and account numbers. But I also accept that Barclays has a duty to protect its customers  
accounts and money  from fraud and I have no reason to doubt  that is what  its intention was 
here.
I have listened  to the call and I can understand why Barclays had concerns, as it was clear  
that Mr L was being  given  answers by someone  else. I also accept  that Mr L was not able to 
provide details of his salary that was paid into the account. So I dont think Barclays acted 
Ref: DRN55279382unfairly by concluding that it had security concerns. I accept that Barclays  could have told 
Mr L earlier in the call about the prompting but I dont think  that would have changed  the 
outcome as it didnt  appear that Mr L knew the answer to some of the questions.
Im satisfied that its up to a bank or building society to determine what its security policies 
and procedures are when exercising its commercial  judgement. I would not expect Barclays  
to tell Mr L what those  policies and procedures are or to be able to reasonably answer  his 
questions in any more  detail than it has done. So for those reasons I cant fairly  ask Barclays 
to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint or to explain why it was 
prepared to block Mr and Mrs Ls account. I accept Mr L could have called Barclays back  
and not mentioned his wife was present. But I cant say what  additional questions  would  
have been asked and if Mr L could have  answered them.  In any event for the reasons I have 
explained I think its up to Barclays  to decide  how it deals with these sorts of security 
matters.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  has dealt  fairly  with this complaint. I accept Mr L is likely to 
have unanswered questions. But I cant fairly order  Barclays to answer those questions for 
the reasons I have  explained, as to do so would, I think, potentially reveal commercially 
sensitive matters.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527938