K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 with a 
credit card. Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited  (AmEx)  mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he didnt  realise he had PPI and indicated he thought he bought  it on the 
telephone. AmEx says Mr M chose to take it after completing a postal application form and it 
made the optional  nature  of the PPI clear.  Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide 
what I think is more likely  to have happened based  on the evidence available. This includes 
Mr Ms testimony as well as the documents  available.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms postal application  form from 2000. In it, customers had to tick a 
box to take PPI. There was nothing on this form indicating  customers had to tick this box. On 
Mr Ms form the box to take PPI has been ticked and hes signed the form. So based  on 
what Ive seen, although Ive thought carefully  about  what  Mr M has said, I think  its more 
likely AmEx made it clear Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think AmEx recommended the PPI to Mr M so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information AmEx gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable.
Mr M told us he had no sick pay provided by his employer  and no other means  to help him 
make his repayments should he have  found himself  unexpectedly out of work.  And this 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  if he was unable  to work because  of illness or 
injury. And it also wouldve provided up to 24 months of cover  for unemployment. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means AmEx doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Ref: DRN56517822But AmEx has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:  
AmEx  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  AmEx didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, AmEx has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited plc does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  plc does  have  to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5651782