K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the decision of Legal  and General  Assurance Society Limited  
(L&G) to decline a claim for incapacity  benefit  under his income protection  policy.
background
Mr P was employed by a particular company (which Ill call C in this decision) as an auditor. 
He was a member of Cs group income  protection insurance policy held with L&G. 
Under the policy, Mr P would be entitled  to a monthly payment if he was unable to perform 
his occupation  because of illness or injury. The benefit would start after a waiting period of 
26 weeks as long as Mr P met the relevant definition of incapacity  throughout.  
Mr P became absent from work  in July 2016,  and his employer subsequently  notified L&G of 
a claim in January  2017. Mr P completed the member statement and stated that the cause 
for being absent from work was work related stress and depression  and mentioned that 
there were ongoing grievances.  
L&G declined Mr Ps claim in May 2017.  It explained  that Mr P appeared to have 
experienced some psychological distress in relation to his perception  of work related issues. 
And the medical  evidence advises that the resolution of the work place issues would remove  
the barrier which  is preventing Mr P from returning  to work as an auditor. So L&G didnt 
agree that he had a condition of such a severity that he met the policy  definition  of an 
individual being unable  to carry out their own occupation.
Mr P appealed and complained to L&G. His GP wrote a letter in support on this. An extract  
from the letter is below.
Mr Ps absence from work is primarily because of stress and depression. The 
disagreement he has with his employer and the consequent grievances he has 
raised with them, have clearly contributed to this. However, all the medical issues  
and events referred to above have also been contributors to his stress and 
depression and therefore to his absence from work.
I feel that Mr Ps situation should improve when the dispute between C and Mr P is 
resolved, but resolution of the dispute  between C and Mr P may not be enough 
alone, as resolution  of the disputewill not remove Mr Ps back  pain,  sleep apnoea, 
Type 2 Diabetes,  high blood  pressure and nose bleeds. I feel these are contributors 
to Mr P not being  well enough to return to work.
L&G responded to say that a consistent  theme  in the medical evidence  was that Mr P was 
suffering from work related stress which would be resolved if the bullying and grievance 
issues were addressed by C, after which, hed be able to return to work.  So it didnt change 
its decision to decline his claim. L&G accepted that the letter  from the GP shows Mr P 
reports some ongoing  psychological symptoms and other health  concerns. But explained 
that it felt it was the perceived workplace issues that have  provoked  the long term sickness 
absence and which feature in most entries in the GP record from July 2016.  So it was L&Gs 
opinion that it wasnt the underlying conditions which prevented Mr P from returning  to work. 
As L&G didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, he came to our service.  He was unhappy  his claim 
had been declined. He felt L&G acted  unfairly   he said itd failed to take into account all of 
Ref: DRN52953192his illnesses and was influenced  by C when making  its decision.  To put things right, he 
wants an independent assessment of his claim taking into account all the medical facts. And, 
once his claim is paid,  hed like it to back dated  with interest being  added.
Since coming to our service, hes also told us that an employment tribunal made a ruling in 
2018 that he was disabled  by the cumulative effect of back pain, sleep apnoea, type 2 
diabetes and depression from June 2016. Hes also sent us evidence from his GP that he 
was pre-diabetic since at least September 2014. And Mr P points out that both of these are 
before the claim was made to L&G.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought L&G hadnt acted unfairly  in declining the 
claim. So he didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He explained that the terms of Mr Ps policy 
meant that in order to successfully claim,  hed have to be totally  unable to perform the duties 
of his occupation due to illness or injury. Mr P hasnt met the definition  of injury  or illness  
during the deferred period. This is because being off work  for work related stress doesnt 
meet the definition  of an injury or illness as Mr P wouldve been able to work  as an auditor  at 
C if the issues with management  were resolved.
Mr P disagrees and asks us to look into a number of matters such as why L&G told his 
employer it was considering a partial payment but didnt go ahead  with this, what  sickness 
reports L&G were sent by C and why L&Gs decision on his appeal  was delayed for a 
number of weeks when  hed been led to believe  itd be made  much  sooner. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr P that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Under Mr Ps policy, the relevant clause says cover is provided  where  Mr P is:
incapacitated by illness or injury  that prevents him from performing the essential  
duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred  period.
Mr Ps capacity  to perform the essential  duties of his own occupation  will be 
determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
As the investigator  has explained, the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy  mean that Mr P 
needs to be able to demonstrate hes totally unable to perform the duties of his occupation  
due to illness or injury.  And occupation, in this case,  means the generic duties of the role   
Mr P was undertaking  prior to him becoming unable to work, rather than his specific  job with 
his employer.
Ref: DRN52953193I need to decide whether L&Gs decision to decline Mr Ps claim under his policy was fair 
and reasonable,  based  on the evidence available  at the time of the decision.
I can understand why Mr P feels unable to work in his role with his current employer given 
the level of stress hes experiencing.  And I havent  disregarded the questions Mr P wants  us 
to ask L&G in response to our investigators view.  But my role here is to look at whether L&G 
has applied  the policy terms fairly.  Having done  so, the evidence doesnt persuade me hes 
unable to perform the generic duties of his role with C - if the issues  hes experiencing at 
work were resolved  or with a different employer. This is because Mr Ps testimony, and the 
available medical  evidence, suggests that the reasons  for Mr Ps absence  are very closely  
linked to the problems hes experiencing at C. Ill explain why.
Mr P has told us that hes suffering with stress caused by a difficult situation at work; 
including a grievance hes raised  and bullying. In the complaint form he sent to our service  at 
the outset of this matter  he said I have been signed off sick with work related stress and 
depression. Mr P also spoke to a specialist from L&Gs rehabilitation team in late February 
2017. The notes  from this review include the following,
Member reports  he is off work with work related stress and depression.  He reports  
work has been the sole cause of his symptoms.
Member reports  that leading up to his absence her felt unsupported  by his 
employer when he needed to take time off for health reasons. Member  reports his 
GP has since  diagnosed work related stress  and depression.
Under the section  perceived barriers to return to work it states,
Member has raised a grievance and is unsure what is going to happen. Member 
believes that his employer has caused his health  problems.
In May 2017, the rehabilitation specialist completes a further review with Mr P. This includes 
asking set questions  such as Diagnoses/reason for absence? The answer  given is stress 
and depression related to work. 
In the opinions and recommendations section of the review document,  she says the cause of 
Mr Ps stress are issues at work  and suggests  that, if these werent present, he could 
potentially make a return  to work. She also goes onto say that issues remain workplace 
related, but Mr P has said his symptoms are no better with treatment following further 
workplace related stressors.
Ive also reviewed Mr Ps medical  records from his GP for the period when he says his 26 
week period started  for him to make a claim - in July 2016  - up to July 2017. Having done so, 
I can see that the dispute he was having at work was the significant focus of these notes 
throughout this period. He was also signed off work for this period. Throughout the time he 
was signed off the sick certificates said that he was signed off due to work  related stress or 
a variation of this such as depression and work  stress, work related stress/depression, 
stress. There  was only one sick certificate which differed materially which was from July 
2016 which signed Mr P off work  due to stress  and chest pain. However, in the notes it 
refers to Mr P having had a recent  hospital check for chest  pain and says that Mr P now 
feels better.
Ref: DRN52953194It seems  to me that there is a clear account that Mr Ps inability to work during the period 
July 2016 to July 2017 relates to issues in his particular place of work. This also seems to 
me to be supported  by medical  evidence.
I appreciate the evidence  Mr P has sent us which confirms that he has been determined by 
an employment tribunal to be disabled from June 2016. But this isnt the same  as satisfying 
the test in the income protection policy he has for being able to claim under it. So, whilst I 
recognise this mustve had an impact  on Mr P, it doesnt automatically follow that being 
disabled means  that someone is incapacitated to such a degree  that he was prevented from 
performing the essential  duties  of his occupation .
Its for these reasons  that Ive not seen enough  evidence to persuade me that Mr P was 
unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role as an auditor with C - if 
matters were resolved  with it - or with another employer. 
For the reasons  set out above, I think L&Gs decision to decline Mr Ps claim was fair and 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Finally, I note that Mr P has referred to another income  protection claim for depression that 
he says was successful.  I think its important to explain that each complaint with our service  
is decided on its own facts and so this doesnt  have a bearing on my decision  in Mr Ps case.
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. And I can tell from what hes said to our 
investigator that things  have been incredibly difficult for him. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve  his dispute with L&G  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5295319