K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited declined  her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Mrs S had pet insurance for her dog, the insurer was Red Sands. Mrs S made a claim for 
L7-S1 Fracture Luxation  (dislocated joints) after unfortunately her dog was injured  by an 
accident on her property. She said her dog was in the garden/yard as usual and her father 
came home early, pulled  into where  the cars were parked and accidently ran over her dog. 
Red Sands  declined the claim. It said Mrs S dog hadnt been  in a secure place so the claim 
didnt meet the following  policy term:
You must ensure your pet cannot  escape  or stray  from your property and any area in 
which a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured 
and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent  escape...
Red Sands  also said Mrs S had businesses  on her farm so her dog was injured  on a public 
right of way.
Mrs S complained to us. She said:
her dogs are kept securely within her property,  which is fenced  with no access to the 
road or beyond her property
she lives on a small non working farm and she doesnt consider her home to be a 
public right of way
within the farm theres only a home office  which had no customers  and one small  
business which is separate  to the area where her dog was run over 
she wants Red Sands to pay her claim to the limit of the policy,  £1,000. The vet costs 
were more  than the limit.
Our investigator said Red Sands unfairly declined the claim and should  pay the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms  and limits.
Red Sands  disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said from the Google Maps 
images of the property,  which  it sent us, theres no indication that the yard where  cars are 
parked is secure  to stop the dog from being able to roam. It also said even if the businesses 
in the farm vicinity arent open for incoming trade it was a public road as deliveries would  be 
made to the businesses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined 
the claim,  and I dont  think it did. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered the policy condition Red Sands  used to decline  the claim. Mrs S dog hadnt 
escaped or strayed  from her property. The issue is whether the dog was in a secure area.
Ref: DRN57218622The Google  Maps images  of Mrs S property show a typical  small farm yard set up. Where 
the cars are shown  as being parked on the day the images were taken I cant see any 
obvious fencing to keep  the dog in. But I dont  know whether the images  show  the situation  
at the time of the accident.  Even  if they did, its clear the area where the dog was hit was on 
Mrs S property  within her yard set up. I think Mrs S reasonably understood the dog being  on 
her property in that set up was secure.  Even if thered been a fence around the yard Mrs S 
father would still have driven in. 
I dont need to decide whether the yard is a riskier place for the dog if there are active  
businesses or whether  Red Sands  can reasonably say theres  a public right of way just 
because deliveries may be made to Mrs S property.  Those  issue arent relevant to this claim 
because the dog was hit by a car driven  by a member of Mrs S family who had permanent  
access to the property and wasnt a member  of the public.
The policy covers vet treatment for an accident.  The claim circumstances meet the policy 
definition of accident; a sudden, unforeseen, and unintended event causing injury  to your 
pet.
In the circumstances its fair for Red Sands to pay the claim subject  to the remaining policy  
terms and limits. If Mrs S has already paid the vet costs Red Sands must add interest as 
detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to pay 
Mrs S claim subject  to the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mrs S has already paid the 
vet costs interest must  be added at 8% simple a year from the date Mrs S made  payment to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN5721862