K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  at the time as Halifax  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 168-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £47.49 
with the PPI costing  an additional £4.93 making  the total monthly repayment £52.42. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Miss M for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Miss Ms monthly  loan repayment  for up 
to 60 months in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Miss M was employed  as a civil servant. She has told us she was entitled to 12 
months full sick pay and death  in service benefit  worth twice her salary. She also told us she 
would be entitled  to redundancy pay. Miss M has said she had asthma for which  she took 
medication but had not missed any time off work. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the loan account closed in 2002.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Miss M about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss M and 
the impact they would have had on her chances  of making a claim;
Ref: DRN52549092Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN52549093Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  - and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable  
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN52549094Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Miss M told us in her questionnaire to this service that the PPI was just included as part of 
the package. 
Ive been provided  with a copy of the Personal  Loan Application  form and the Loan 
Agreement. Looking  first at the Loan Application, Miss M has signed the box to confirm she 
wanted the PPI. There was an equally  prominent no box to sign if she didnt want the cover.  
And Miss M has also signed the application. I think it likely she would have read the 
paperwork she was signing as she was taking on a new financial commitment and more 
likely understood that she had chosen  the option  to take the PPI.
The Loan  Agreement  sets out Miss Ms personal details and the financial information relating 
to the loan. On the agreement the monthly payment for the loan is set out as well as the 
monthly premium for the PPI and the total monthly  payment.  The agreement also states; 
You advised on your application form that you required Personal Loan Repayments  
Insurance. Therefore, you must pay the monthly premium of £4.93 on the payment date (this 
may be changed).  If she hadnt wanted  the PPI, she could have questioned it with Halifax  at 
any time. There is no evidence to say she did this.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Miss M says she took out the PPI at a meeting but that she wasnt  advised.  Halifax  says the 
PPI was taken in branch and this was an advised  sale. I cant say what  Miss M was told at 
the meeting but as an advised  sale it placed  more responsibility on Halifax for how it sold the 
policy and I will look at this as an advised  sale.
This means  Halifax had to advise Miss M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss M. It seems  Miss M cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Miss 
Ms financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Miss M would  have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Miss M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Ref: DRN52549095Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss M given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss M met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Miss M had a need for the policy  it seems likely  that Miss Ms ability  to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay benefits and redundancy 
pay she says she would have  been entitled to. Miss M has told us she would receive 
sick pay for 12 months. Although I have no doubt she has given me her honest 
recollection, this was a high level of benefit  even taking into account her job and the 
length of time she had been  employed.  Overall, on balance, I cant say she would 
have received full sick pay for the whole  period.  I think  it was more likely Miss M 
would have been paid full sick pay for six months  and a reduced amount after that. In 
any event I still think the PPI was suitable  as this policy paid out for up to 60 months 
if Miss M made a successful claim for accident or sickness - so it would likely have 
lasted for longer  than her sick pay and be paid in addition  to it. If she lost her job the 
policy paid for up to 12 months   likely longer  than her redundancy  pay would have 
lasted and in any event in addition to it leaving any payment she did receive for other 
essential living costs  if she wasnt working. Any death in service pay she received  
didnt provide the same cover as PPI as it would only be paid out in the unfortunate 
event of her death.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss M. There  
was nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Miss M has told 
us about asthma  she had in 1987  many  years before she took out the PPI. I still think 
the cover  was suitable. I say that as it seems likely  from what she told us her 
condition was managed and she hadnt taken any time off work for it. On balance, I 
dont think this condition would have been a likely reason for her to think  it would be 
something she might have to make  a claim for. 
-Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Miss M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy  to enable her to understand what  
Halifax was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss M was given  a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate  costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN52549096But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss M agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss M Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss M. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Miss M all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Miss M? To what extent  did Miss M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Ref: DRN52549097Miss M would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss M says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss M knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told her the exact premium at the point 
Miss M applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Miss M would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with her expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with Halifax at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss M would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Miss M would  get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss Ms 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her loan repayment)  were  significantly different  to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Miss M knew about or should  have known  about or for which  she received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date and which recurred within 24 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN52549098The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss M be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss M pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Miss M says she had a medical condition 
some time before the policy was taken out which might have been ongoing, I dont think  
better information about this exclusion would have put her off agreeing  to it. I say this 
because as I explained above it seems  likely  from what she told us her condition was 
managed and she hadnt taken any time off work  for it. On balance, I dont think  this 
condition would have  been a likely reason for her to think it would be something she might 
have to make a claim for. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss M 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss M from taking out the policy,  Miss M, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss M had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any paid work which  in the insurers view she 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into her thinking  about what  she 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although given Miss Ms 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would have been  interested in taking out the 
cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss M would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Miss M made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN52549099That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss M would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Miss M compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN525490910Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5254909