K822xcomplaint
Mrs C says that incorrect information recorded against her credit  file by Bank of Scotland  plc 
(trading as Halifax) has caused  her trouble  and upset  which  has continued  for a number of 
years. Mrs C is asking for compensation for this.
background 
This complaint arises from a previous complaint we were asked to look at where it was found 
that Halifax had reported incorrect information to credit reference agencies.  The information 
related not to Mrs C but to a completely different person,  a Ms H. Halifax had, in error,  
merged two customers mortgage profiles  that of Mrs C and Ms H  which  led to Mrs C 
being linked  to Ms Hs debts. Halifax  accepted this was a mistake  which  it needed to put 
right.
This current complaint  is that, because of the original error, Mrs Cs credit file has been 
affected for several  years due to the length  of time its taken for Halifax to put right its original 
error.
Our investigator asked  Halifax to pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs C. He was satisfied that, with one exception  a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) issued by a third party against  Ms H  there  was no further incorrect  information  on 
the credit  file. 
The investigator explained to Mrs C that Halifax couldnt remove the CCJ and that she would 
need to take steps to do this herself. He thought Halifax should pay compensation of £500 
for the trouble and upset  it had caused, in addition  to compensation already paid for the 
previous complaint. Halifax  agreed to do this. Mrs H didnt think this was sufficient, as shes 
since been contacted by debt collectors  in relation  to the CCJ.
As the complaint is unresolved, it now falls to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Halifax has acknowledged its been at 
fault in relation to the impact its error  has had on Mrs C. So the only issue  I need to decide  is 
what compensation is fair and reasonable for this error.
Having looked  at whats happened, Im satisfied that Halifax  has taken too long to sort out 
the errors  on Mrs Cs credit file. I think the compensation of £500  offered by Halifax is fair 
and reasonable for this. It is in addition  to £800 compensation already paid for the initial  
mistake of linking  Mrs Cs credit profile  with that of Ms H.
Ive looked at Mrs Cs credit file, and I can see that the only outstanding issue is the CCJ 
from a third party in Ms Hs name, about  which Mrs C has now been contacted  by debt 
collectors. Im satisfied that this has happened  as a result of the initial mistake made by 
Halifax in linking Mrs C with Ms H. 
I agree  with the investigator that Halifax is unable to do anything about  removing this CCJ, 
and that Mrs C will need to take steps to sort it out. But I think that if Mrs C is put to expense, 
Ref: DRN57549132time and trouble in doing so, it is only reasonable for Halifax to compensate  her for this, 
given that she is only being linked to this debt because of Halifaxs  original mistake.
I am not dealing with the CCJ in this current complaint, but I think  it is only fair to put Halifax  
on notice that there  is still an outstanding issue which may require its attention  in the 
foreseeable future.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I order  Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mrs C £500 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5754913