K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with Cofunds Limited  as their financial adviser isnt able to 
access performance data thats  needed for a review of their investments.
background
Mr and Mrs G have investments held on Cofunds platform. Last year they were  concerned  
about how their investments were performing, so they asked their financial adviser for help. 
The adviser tried to access a report on Cofunds website  this should have given 
performance information for the previous six months. But a technical issue  meant Mr and 
Mrs Gs adviser  couldnt view the particular report. 
They made a complaint  to Cofunds  and were told that although the technical  problems 
remained unresolved,  there was a workaround for the adviser to get the information they 
needed. But Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy  and asked for our help.  
Their concerns were  looked into by one of our investigators, but he didnt think Cofunds had 
done anything  wrong. He said problems  do occur from time to time and seeing as the 
agreement Mr and Mrs G have with Cofunds is only administrative and that the valuation 
could be obtained  by other  means, he couldnt  hold them to providing the specific report. 
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy  they said Cofunds hadnt replied to them directly, their 
adviser didnt have the expertise to explain the losses and that they needed our help, in the 
hope that they could  recover some of the lost money  which  was always set to bolster their 
pensions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs G but Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator,  for broadly the same 
reasons.
Cofunds provide  a custody and dealing service for Mr and Mrs G  they host the platform  
which electronically holds  their investments. Cofunds can take a variety of different 
instructions from either the couple, or anyone else appointed to administer their account, 
such as their financial adviser. Cofunds will be expected to report  on things  accurately,  such  
as the value of the investments. And theyll handle administrative things like contributions,  
withdrawals, transfers too. But thats  about as far as Cofunds involvement goes here  
theyre not in charge of what investments Mr and Mrs G have, they dont  give them any 
advice and theyre not accountable for the performance of the investments. 
Ive thought about the information  Mr and Mrs Gs adviser would like to see. While there isnt 
a certain type of report available due to technical  problems,  I have  seen the data is available  
through other means   the online account  has a summary page  and its possible  to go back 
through previous performance using  the Platform  Valuation Report button. This would allow 
the financial adviser to enter a valuation date and review Mr and Mrs Gs investments at any 
point in time  if theyd  like to go back further than the system allows,  they could call or email  
Cofunds to ask. 
Ref: DRN59779762Because of this, I dont think its fair to say that Cofunds current inability to share a certain 
type of report is preventing Mr and Mrs Gs adviser from doing their job in reviewing  the 
investment portfolio.  
I note that Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly about  this as they have been relying on their 
investments to do well and supplement their pension income. But I think  its important to 
mention that even  if Cofunds were able to share  the type of report the adviser wanted, this 
wouldnt necessarily help bolster their funds  as theyd like  all the report would have done is 
show the valuation  of each fund, holding  and portfolio overall. So it will always  be for Mr and 
Mrs Gs adviser  to interpret this performance data and  bearing  in mind their personal and 
financial circumstances  advise them  as to what alternatives might  be considered in order  
to mitigate any losses. 
Cofunds inability  to provide the report hasnt affected Mr and Mrs Gs investment 
performance. And given the workaround  option,  it also wouldnt be fair to say the absence  of 
the report prevented  the adviser  from reviewing  the performance either. For these reasons, I 
dont uphold the complaint against  Cofunds  as I dont think theyve fallen short of their 
obligations to Mr and Mrs G. 
my final decision
As explained, I dont  uphold  this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 
22 August 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5977976