K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  and subsequently closed his account 
without giving him a reason. Mr A said this prevented him from accessing his funds,  and only 
about half of his funds were  returned to him.
background
Barclays blocked Mr As account in November 2016  and said it needed to do this while  it 
reviewed Mr As account. In January 2018  Barclays allowed Mr A to access  some of the 
funds in his account, other funds were returned to sending banks. 
Barclays asked Mr A to explain the source of his funds. Mr A said he provided  the bank with 
the information it required. However, Barclays said that Mr A didnt  provide  it with the 
information it needed concerning all of his transactions and it closed his account over a year 
after it was blocked.  Barclays  said if it carried out Mr As transactions it wouldnt satisfy its 
legal and regulatory responsibilities  and would risk claims  or legal actions from third parties.  
Mr A said by not releasing his funds he has lost out on opportunities to make money and pay 
his bills and he feels that Barclays  is trying to destroy his business.
The investigator recommended  Barclays pay Mr A £250 compensation for the time it took to 
return some  of his money and close his account.  He said Barclays  has legal and regulatory 
obligations and it wasnt wrong to block and then close Mr As account with notice  when it 
didnt get information. He sent a copy of Barclays  letter  to Mr A requesting the information 
and said he would forward  this to Barclays if Mr A sent it to our service.
Mr A said his withheld funds should be returned.  He said hed given Barclays  information 
and hadnt received a further  request but would provide anything  the bank may require. Mr A 
didnt accept the £250 compensation and requested an ombudsman review  his complaint.
Barclays agreed that the block  on Mr As account  had been applied  longer than it should 
have been and agreed with the recommended compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at Barclays decisions and handling of Mr As account to see if it has acted  
in accordance with the procedures set for banks and to see if it has treated Mr A fairly.
Barclays is correct to say it has a legal and regulatory requirement to investigate  accounts 
and prevent certain activities, and so it didnt do anything wrong by blocking Mr As account 
while a review was ongoing . I havent  seen anything from Mr A that provides  Barclays  with 
the information it requested and he hasnt responded to the investigators invitation to send it 
to our service so that we can ensure it is considered by Barclays.  
Following its review I think Barclays acted in accordance with its terms and conditions  and 
acted fairly  in closing  the account  with the proper notice. I also think Barclays acted within  its 
terms and conditions and fairly in returning the funds  in Mr As account to his customers for 
which no information as to his entitlement has been  received.
Ref: DRN56053912I think that Barclays couldve carried out the review  and reached its conclusions  sooner and 
Im pleased it has acknowledged this. I agree with the investigator that there  were  
unnecessary delays and that Barclays should pay Mr A £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience he was caused. 
From Barclays records it would  appear that it has returned the funds to Mr As customers by 
cheque. Mr A will need to pursue his customers directly for repayment.  However,  should  he 
reject this decision it will not be legally  binding and he can consider legal action if he wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A £250  compensation for the long delay in its 
decision to allow Mr A access  to some of his funds and to close his account. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605391