K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a personal loan. He said wasnt even made  aware he had PPI.
background
Mr L applied for a loan of £2,000 in a Lloyds branch in 1996 and bought a single premium 
PPI policy  at the same time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front 
in one single  payment.  It cost £383 and this amount was also lent to Mr L by Lloyds and 
subject to interest. Both the original  loan and PPI loan initially  ran over a period of 
24 months. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr L disagreed and it 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
These events took place  some time ago and neither Lloyds nor Mr L is able to send me the 
original loan agreement  or other documents from the sale.  Given  how long ago it was, this 
isnt unusual and businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely. Nevertheless, 
Lloyds did send in an example of a form which it said wouldve been used in Mr Ls case, 
back in 1996.
Ive also seen a number of very similar sales from around this time period and am familiar 
with the documentation Lloyds normally used. So in making a decision in this case,  Ive 
taken account  of what both parties  have told me, but Ive also used my knowledge and 
experience of how these particular  PPI sales were usually carried out. 
As this was all over 22 years  ago, its obviously possible what  Mr L is able to remember  may 
have been affected by the passage of time. I say this because  using  what I know  about  the 
Lloyds sales processes I think its more likely that there wouldve been a discussion in the 
branch about  the loan and whether Mr L wanted to have PPI with it. 
Based on that discussion, I think Mr L would have then been given a loan agreement  which  
described the PPI as Optional Loan Protection. The agreement also offered a yes or no 
choice as far as buying the PPI was concerned. And I think the yes box to have PPI 
wouldve had to have  been selected  for the PPI to be added.  The example form we were  
sent by Lloyds reflects this process.
So I think Mr L would have probably been  given  an option on the form about  taking the policy 
out and would have been able to see he didnt have to any PPI cover if he didnt want  to. I 
therefore think its likely he gave his consent to buying the PPI policy  with his loan.
Ref: DRN54315922Lloyds says it recommended this policy  to Mr L which means  it had a duty to make sure that 
it was suitable  for his situation. I looked  carefully  at his circumstances of that time to help me 
decide about this. From what Ive seen, he was eligible  for the cover  and I dont  think  hed 
have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  Mr 
L says he was self-employed. We do sometimes see cases where claiming for 
unemployment could  have been quite  difficult for self-employed people. But Ive looked 
carefully at the policy Mr L had and I do think hed have been able to make  a claim for 
unemployment. 
The policy could have  also paid out a monthly benefit in the event of him being unable  to 
work through  illness, or losing  his job completely and this would have been  in addition to any 
other means  he already had in place.  I cant say why he took out the PPI, but I can 
understand how he could have had a use for it. The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for 
the same  term lengths and because of this, and the things Ive mentioned above, I think  the 
policy was suitable  for him.
Lloyds also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I obviously cant say what was actually  said to Mr L during his meeting with Lloyds or 
whether he was told everything  he should  have been. However,  on some of the agreements  
Ive seen, Lloyds  didnt always show the interest  that would be added to the PPI clearly 
enough. This may have happened  in this case. However, I can see the interest on the PPI 
part of the loan wouldve amounted to less than £68 anyway  over the full term and I dont 
think this would have  made a difference to whether Mr L would have  still bought the policy. I 
think hed have still bought it, even though Lloyds might not have done  everything right.  
I accept there are documents missing  from this case that would have been helpful  for me to 
see. But overall, I think Mr L made a choice to buy the cover and it was suitable for him. And 
I think the document that he signed during  the sale wouldve showed him that PPI was being 
applied and it wasnt a compulsory part of his loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank plc to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5431592