K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mrs E says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think  HSBC made it clear that Mrs E didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this. Neither HSBC nor 
Mrs E have  been  able to provide the actual documents  from the sale, which  isnt surprising  
given the length of time that has passed.  But HSBC has given us a sample credit card 
agreement which was being used around  the time of the sale. I can see on this document 
that there  is a section for PPI with a tick box to complete if the cover is required. There  is also 
a box to sign to confirm the selection. I think its likely to be the same form as the one Mrs E 
completed and so I think its more likely that it was made clear the policy  was optional.
So, based on what  Ive seen and been told, and taking  into account what we know  about 
HSBC sales processes  at the time, I think its more likely  that Mrs E agreed to take out the 
cover, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
HSBC recommended the policy to her and this means it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mrs E was eligible for the policy  and wasnt affected  by any of the main  limitations  and 
exclusions on the PPI cover,  such as unusual working arrangements or suffering from a 
medical condition  of which she was already aware.
And it looks like it could  have been  useful for her. Mrs E has told us that she was entitled to 
six months full pay followed by six months  half pay from her employer if she was too ill to 
work. But this policy  would have paid out for up to 12 months  which would have been in 
addition to her sick pay and potentially for longer than she would  receive full pay. And it 
would have paid out for the same  length of time if she had lost her job. While Ive noted 
Mrs E has told us she had some savings, by having  this policy  it would have protected  these  
funds for another purpose or enabled  her to use them  to help cover other essential living 
expenses. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E because: 
Ref: DRN58341322HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mrs E, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mrs E any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs E the difference  between 
what Mrs E owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mrs E 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs E can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs E any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5834132