K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained that Unum Ltd wont refund  the premiums  hes paid for his income 
protection insurance policy  after it gave him wrong  information about the policy.
background 
In 1985, Mr W took out an income  protection insurance policy with Unum. The policy would  
pay benefit, after a waiting period of 13 weeks, if Mr W were  unable to work  due to sickness  
or injury.
In 1994, Mr W moved abroad.
In 2018, Mr W unfortunately suffered an accident  which he said prevented him from working. 
He contacted Unum  to make a claim.
Unums adviser told Mr W that he would be covered only for the replacement of income  
which was taxable  in the UK.
Mr W complained  to Unum that this meant  his policy  had been worthless since  he moved 
abroad. He asked for a refund of all his premiums since that time, plus interest.
Unum responded  to say its adviser had given Mr W wrong  information,  for which  it 
apologised. It confirmed that he would  be eligible  to receive benefit for up to six months. It 
therefore declined  his request for a refund  of premiums.
Mr W was unhappy at Unums response. He thought it had given him wrong  information  
deliberately and this meant he should  be entitled to a refund of premiums.  He referred his 
complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld and that Unum should 
pay £100 compensation for any worry or inconvenience caused to Mr W by its provision of 
wrong information. She was satisfied the wrong  information was given accidentally rather 
than deliberately.
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  The matter  has therefore been  passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states:
The Insured may travel  or reside in any part of the world but if a claim is made and the 
Insured is outside  the Stated Countries benefit  will be paid for a maximum period of six 
months unless otherwise  agreed by the company. 
The policy went on to list the Stated  Countries. Mr W wasnt  living in one of these countries. 
This meant he could  claim under the policy, but for a maximum of six months.
Ref: DRN50135172Unums adviser therefore gave Mr W incorrect information when she initially told him that he 
couldnt claim under the policy. However,  after Mr W complained Unum acknowledged its 
error and provided  correct  information. This was 17 days after the wrong advice.
I have no grounds for supposing the wrong advice was due to anything other than a simple 
error. Im satisfied Unum  corrected its error  reasonably quickly.  The delay in providing 
correct information  didnt hold up payment of Mr Ws claim because Unum was still waiting 
for him to provide  financial and medical  information in any case.  However, I think it would  
have caused Mr W a degree of worry for which I think  Unum should pay him £100 
compensation.
Mr W has also raised a complaint about  Unums handling of his claim. This has been  dealt 
with in a separate decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum 
Ltd to pay Mr W £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5013517