K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with how British Gas Services Limited handled the claim he made under his 
home emergency cover policy.
background 
Mr B contacted British  Gas to report an issue with his boiler. Its first engineer visited  on 
14 November 2018 and diagnosed that a powerflush was required,  which  British  Gas later 
quoted Mr B £785  for. On 16 November 2018 Mr B had a call with British  Gas in which  he 
told it about his health difficulties, and as a result  it added  Mr B to its priority customer list. A 
total of nine engineers visited Mr B over about  eleven weeks but his boiler wasnt  fully 
repaired until the heat exchanger and electrodes were replaced  these were diagnosed and 
replaced between  21 and 27 January 2019.
Mr B was unhappy the first engineer said a powerflush was required. British Gas accepted  
this was a misdiagnosis  and paid Mr B £50 compensation. Mr B then later complained  to 
British Gas that it had taken too long to repair  his boiler, especially since he was on its 
priority list. Mr B said his mental and physical health  had been  affected by not having 
working heating  for so long, and his gas bill was higher than usual. 
British Gas upheld  Mr Bs complaint. It apologised for the delays and inconvenience and 
paid him a further £150 compensation. And in later communication,  it asked Mr B for his gas 
bills over the last two years so it could consider his increased gas costs. But it said it 
wouldnt increase  the total of £200 compensation it had already paid.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  He thought £3,350  was fairer compensation given 
the delays and what British Gas knew of his health  difficulties. Mr B said he suffered with 
anxiety and depression, which he provided  medical  evidence to support, and that his 
medication caused side effects  which  were  made  worse by not having heating. He said 
British Gas hadnt communicated or had oversight as it should, and that the £50 it had first 
paid him wasnt related  to this complaint.
For its part, British Gas accepted the powerflush was a misdiagnosis and that thered  been 
three unproductive visits. But it said all the other  visits  were  necessary and the heating  and 
hot water  were working when each engineer left. However, British Gas then thought the 
powerflush might not have been  misdiagnosed. But it accepted it had given contradictory  
information about this and offered to send a senior engineer to assess Mr Bs boiler. It said 
that, along with the heat exchanger work  it had carried out as a good will gesture, the £200 it 
had paid Mr B was fair compensation.
 
After looking into things,  our investigator  said British  Gas should have treated Mr Bs claim 
as an emergency  and with extra care. But instead,  unnecessary delays started on 
14 November 2018 when the powerflush  was misdiagnosed. He said British Gas had 
already accepted the powerflush  was misdiagnosed and paid Mr B £50 compensation for 
that. So that £50 did form part of the compensation for this complaint, but the heat 
exchanger work British  Gas said it had carried out as a goodwill gesture didnt. Our 
investigator thought  British Gas should pay Mr B a further £150  in addition to the £200  it had 
already paid, making £350 in total.
Ref: DRN51295202British Gas accepted our investigators view. But Mr B disagreed.  He gave further  details of 
how British Gas had handled his boiler repairs and its knowledge of his health difficulties, 
and he explained  more about the impact this matter  had on him. 
As Mr B disagreed, his complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional  decision 
on 29 May 2020, in which  I said the following.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
this complaint. 
British Gas did for a time change its position  about whether the powerflush had been 
misdiagnosed. But it ultimately accepted  what our investigator said which,  amongst other 
things, was that the powerflush had been misdiagnosed. Other than this, Ive not seen that 
British Gas denies making the errors Mr B has complained of. So it seems  theres no longer 
any dispute that British Gas made  these errors. Therefore, whats left for me to consider is 
whats fair and reasonable compensation for those errors.
I understand that Mr B would like British Gas to pay him £3,350 compensation, which  hes 
based on £50 for every  day of unnecessary delay. But when a business  makes errors, our 
approach is to consider the impact  of those errors. So Ive thought about what impact these 
errors  which British Gas accepts  it made  - have had on Mr B in his particular 
circumstances. And Im satisfied British  Gas caused  him a lot unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Ill explain  why.
Its not in dispute  the unnecessary delays started  when the first engineer  misdiagnosed the 
problem on 14 November  2018, and I dont think they ended  until 21 January 2019 when the 
heat exchanger and electrodes began to be identified as the real problem. So British  Gas 
didnt correctly identify  the problem until the last week of the almost eleven  weeks  it took to 
repair Mr Bs boiler. I think thats  a significant delay.
And that delay took place over the colder  months  of the year.  Mr B has said the boiler  
problems meant his home was constantly  cold during that time, and the visit records  
provided by British Gas suggest Mr Bs heating may at best have only worked intermittently. 
I think having only intermittent heating for many  more weeks that were necessary would 
have caused Mr B inconvenience  in its own right. 
But I think Mr B was caused other inconvenience  too. Hes said he had to rearrange medical 
appointments to accommodate  engineer  visits. And that the location  of the boiler and its 
parts meant he had to empty cupboards before each visit so the engineer could access  
everything. I think Mr B would also have been  inconvenienced by having  to keep contacting 
British Gas to say his boiler still wasnt working properly even after its engineers had visited.  
As well as inconvenience, I think British Gas also caused Mr B unnecessary  distress.  I say 
this because Mr B has told us about his mental  health issues and provided medical evidence 
to support that. And Ive seen that Mr B talked to British Gas about these very near to the 
start of this claim   they were the reason it put him on its priority customer  list. So this was 
already a difficult time for Mr B. And British  Gas then caused  him unnecessary  uncertainty, 
worry and frustration regarding what the boiler problem was, and how and when it might be 
fixed. 
Ref: DRN51295203I think Mr B would have been  caused  even more frustration and distress here because of his 
knowledge that British Gas should  have been  giving him a higher than usual standard  of 
care due to his priority status. And it would have been upsetting  and frustrating for Mr B to 
find British Gas tried to sell him a powerflush it accepts wasnt  needed. In addition,  Mr B has 
explained that his home  being cold caused  him physical difficulties - hes said his bedroom 
being cold was particularly difficult for him given the physical  effects his medication has on 
him. And that this in turn made his mental  health difficulties worse.
In summary  then, I think that while British accepted Mr B as a priority customer very near the 
start of his claim, it nonetheless  caused  him unnecessary distress  and inconvenience over 
very many weeks which particularly impacted his mental and physical  health.  So for the 
reasons explained above, Im intending  to say British Gas should pay Mr B a further £400 
compensation in addition  to the £200 it has already paid him - £600 compensation in total.
I note Mr B would like British Gas to take up his suggestions about a system for following up 
repairs. But British Gas is entitled to decide  its own processes and policies regarding  this. So 
thats not something Ill be asking it to do.
British Gas agreed with my provisional  decision,  but clarified that what Id referred  to as its 
priority service list was in fact its Priority Service Register. It said this register meant a 
customers vulnerability is assessed at each point  of contact  based  on what the customer  
says at that time  it doesnt  mean theyll get an enhanced service by mention of being on 
that register.
In Mr Bs response to my provisional decision, he said British Gas should pay a total of 
£1,000 compensation. He said it hadnt replaced the heat exchanger  as a gesture of goodwill 
since that work was covered under his policy, and if it had taken the cost of that work into 
account it would have offered him £900  compensation  in total. Mr B said the powerflush 
wasnt necessary and the £50 compensation British Gas offered him for that misdiagnosis 
shouldnt be treated as part of the compensation for the boiler repairs, as British Gas didnt 
take it into account when it later offered  him £150. And Mr B gave further  details of the 
particular medication  he was taking, the frequency with which it affected his physical health, 
and how this was made  worse by the errors British Gas made. 
Ive now gone  on to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not departing  from 
my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
British Gas has clarified whats meant by its priority service list, which I acknowledge. 
Nonetheless, Im satisfied it was aware  of Mr Bs health issues very early in his claim. And I 
think Mr B was caused frustration and distress by knowing  British  Gas was aware  of these 
things and yet still unnecessarily delayed  repairing his boiler.
I also acknowledge that Mr B would like me to award £1,000 compensation in total. But 
I think the total of £600 I awarded in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. I say that because while Mr B has provided  more details 
about his particular medication, its physical  effects  and how these were made worse by the 
delays, I had already  considered the impact of that in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN51295204In addition, I dont  think it would be fair to ask British Gas to pay Mr B the cost of the heat 
exchanger work as he has suggested. Thats because this is work its already  carried out 
regardless of whether it was as a goodwill gesture or under the terms of his policy. So it 
wouldnt be fair for Mr B to effectively receive  that twice. 
And I think the £50 compensation British  Gas first offered  should  be included  in the total 
compensation here, because it was for the powerflush misdiagnosis which  was part of the 
overall delays and mishandling Mr B complains of. 
So taking everything into account, Im satisfied a total of £600 compensation is fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint. British 
Gas Services Limited  should pay Mr B a further  £400 compensation in addition to the £200  
its already paid him  so £600 compensation in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5129520