K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking a credit  card.  Lloyds thinks  Mr C 
applied for the card and PPI by post. Mr C says it was sold at a branch. Bearing in mind  also 
the application deadline and Classic direct heading  on Mr Cs credit card application form, I 
think its likely Mr C made his application by post.
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a machine inspector and had been there for just over 4 
years. From  what he has told us, he was entitled to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of paying his credit card if he couldnt work. Mr C has said 
he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful unemployment or disability claim, it 
offered to repay  5% of Mr Cs credit card balance each month for 11 months  and clear  his 
outstanding balance if the claim lasted  12 months.  The life cover  would, subject  to its terms, 
clear the account  balance  on death.  Lloyds has told us the policy  at the time cost no more  
than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding  balance. The premium  would continue to have 
to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract interest.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in 2007.
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Cs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Cs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr C about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the impact  they would  
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN59860822Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen had a chance to give 
their responses to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN59860823The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr C has said he had no interest in it and 
he says it was just included on his card as part of the package. But the card application  form, 
under the heading Optional features, has boxes to tick to say either Yes or No to the PPI. 
On Mr Cs form, which he signed,  the Yes box is ticked - and I think  he wouldve known he 
couldve ticked No instead if he didnt want the cover. Taking everything into account, I think  
Ref: DRN59860824its more likely Mr C knew the policy was optional  and agreed to take it without undue 
pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mr C hasnt said Lloyds did give advice. 
Taking all this into account, Im persuaded Lloyds  didnt  give advice. This means Lloyds 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr C. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take the policy,  including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
the information
Lloyds has provided  us with Mr Cs application form and credit agreement  showing that 
PPI had been selected. It has also referred  us to policy terms and conditions which I accept,  
on a balance of probabilities, applied  to policies like Mr Cs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr C at the time, I dont think Lloyds gave  Mr C the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the credit agreement referred to the PPI as cover  for 
the minimum credit card payments in case Mr C couldnt work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The information provided would have  given Mr C a broad sense  of what the 
policy covered. And I think its unlikely  Mr C would  have thought it was free. 
But it was Lloydss responsibility to draw to Mr Cs attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision.
Im not persuaded Lloyds did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr C, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Lloyds adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Lloyds  gave Mr C sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing his attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN59860825-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Cs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr C about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr C? To what extent  did Mr C suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr C. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. Mr C says he wouldnt  have  taken it 
and believes  I should presume this to be the case given the significant failings identified  
above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr C ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr C didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim wasnt  dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded illness or injury occurring within  12 months of the policy  start if related 
to any health issue Mr C knew  or shouldve known about at the start or for which hed 
seen or arranged to see a medical practitioner in the 12 months before the start;
The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr C wasnt  a 
permanent employee;  and
Ref: DRN59860826The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim Mr C be unable  to do his 
own job or any work which in the insurers view he was or might  become qualified for in 
view of his education,  training and ability.
 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think he still had some  good reasons to 
take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr C 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr C had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable  to do his job 
but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers  view he was or might become qualified  
for in view of his education, training  and ability, it might have played into his thinking about  
what to do. And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought   although given  Mr Cs 
circumstances and lack of other means to make  payments if he couldnt work,  on balance  I 
think he would still have  been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr C would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  he 
thought he was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding his entitlement to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay  and taking  into 
account his lack of other means. And in those  circumstances I consider it more likely than 
not that Mr C would have taken the policy in any event.  
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
Ref: DRN59860827should be presumed Mr C would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred.
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr C wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that he would still have  taken the PPI had 
he been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was buying. So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude  
Lloyds should  pay Mr C compensation,  as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr C and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Ref: DRN59860828Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986082