K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1993. The policy covered Mr M only. Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr and Mrs M say they were told 
not taking the PPI could affect  their chances of being approved  for the mortgage. But they 
havent given  us much other detail about  what was said at the sale or been able to confirm  
exactly when they were told this
And Santander has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application,  which has a 
section on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked  and a tick in the yes box. But it hasnt 
been able to send us copies of all the paperwork relating to the PPI it says wouldve been 
completed at the sale. Due to the amount of time that has passed  since the sale though, I 
dont think this lack of information from either Mr and Mrs M or Santander  is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that I dont  think  theres  enough evidence  for me to say that 
Santander made Mr and Mrs M think they wouldnt get the mortgage if they didnt take the 
PPI. And, based on the evidence I do have, I think Santander likely made  it clear  to Mr and 
Mrs M that they had a choice about  the PPI, and that Mr and Mrs M chose to take it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check  that it was right for 
them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr M doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs M have told us 
Mr M wouldve been entitled to full sick pay.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Ms 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs M if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs M off taking it out.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN51746432But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5174643