K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs B took out with a credit agreement  in 1997. Its 
been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. So, for 
clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs B says she thought  the PPI would help her get the credit.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Bs credit  agreement. This included a section on PPI, with a 
box to be crossed if she wanted to take it out. And there is a pre-printed  cross in the box. 
Theres also nothing on the agreement which suggests the PPI will have any impact  on 
Mrs Bs application.
While the cross is pre-printed,  Mrs Bs details including  her name,  address,  telephone 
number and the goods she was buying are also pre-printed. So it looks  like there was some  
discussion between Mrs B and the advisor  before the agreement  was printed out. And, 
based on what I understand about  FICLs sales practices at the time, I think its likely it was 
made clear to Mrs B in this conversation that she had a choice about the PPI.
Mrs B has said the advisor  persuaded her to take the PPI. But she hasnt given us much 
detail about what  was said. This is understandable given  how long ago the sale was. But I 
dont think theres enough  evidence here for me to say FICL unfairly pressured her into 
taking the PPI.
I also havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs B any personalised advice  about  the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means FICL didnt have to check  if the 
PPI was right for Mrs B. But it did still have to make  sure she got the information she needed 
to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Mrs B says she didnt understand what the PPI was for. And its possible the information 
FICL gave  Mrs B about  the benefits, exclusions and costs of the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer than Mrs B says she wouldve 
Ref: DRN58013562been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need  to rely on her family or any 
savings she had to make her repayments  if she wasnt  earning. So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  to her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs B off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5801356