K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the premium he had to pay to Haven Insurance  Company Limited via 
his insurance broker  to renew his commercial motor insurance policy  in October 2018. 
background
Mr G was sent renewal documents by his broker a few weeks  before renewal. He was 
quoted a premium  of £4,207.67 to renew his policy with Haven, including  breakdown  cover 
at £104.04. The previous  year hed only paid just over £1,000. He rang his broker to 
complain about  the renewal premium. It looks like Mr G changed his job and this led to a 
reduction in the overall amount payable to £2,609.70, excluding breakdown cover. But, 
including a broker fee of £85. And eventually it was reduced to £2,228.63,  excluding  
breakdown cover and including  the same broker fee. And Mr G renewed the policy  paying  
this amount by instalments. 
Haven responded to Mr Gs complaint and explained extra  incidents and claims Mr G had 
made had had an impact  on his premium. 
Mr G complained to us and one of our adjudicators looked into his complaint. She explained 
the main reason the original renewal  price was reduced from £4,207.67 to £2609.63 was 
that Mr G had changed his job. And she was satisfied what Haven had charged was in line 
with what it would have  charged other similar customers and that it had treated Mr G fairly. 
Mr G didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont usually interfere  with the way insurers price insurance policies. As theyre all entitled 
to assess the risks theyre willing to cover and what they want  to charge for them.  And 
insurers have different things they take into account  and different  loadings for different risks. 
But I do need to be satisfied Haven didnt make  a mistake with Mr Gs premium or treat him 
differently to other  similar customers.  And Im satisfied it didnt do either of these  things. 
I can see the original premium quoted was much higher  because  of the occupation Haven 
had listed at the time it provided the renewal quote. And when it was told this had changed, it 
brought the premium down. It was still much  higher than the previous year and this was due 
to a number of factors, one of which appears  to be the additional claims and driving incidents 
Mr G had made or reported.    
While I cant share the commercially  sensitive information Haven has provided to justify the 
premium it charged,  Im satisfied it did offer Mr G an appropriate premium  based on its 
normal criteria. I do of course appreciate he had to pay a lot of money for his insurance, but I 
dont think this was due to Haven treating him unfairly. It was just because of the high 
premium Haven wanted to insure  him based on its normal approach. 
This means  because I dont think Haven has done  anything wrong,  its not appropriate for 
me to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Ref: DRN54176822my final decision
Mt final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417682