K820x#14This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out in 1996 
and 1999 alongside a store card. The PPI was first added to the account sometime after 
Mr R took out the store  card. This policy was cancelled and a second policy was taken out 
on the same  card sometime after. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr R 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided that neither of these policies was mis-sold, and Ill explain why. 
Mr R says he doesnt remember  PPI being taken out when  he applied for the card in a store, 
so he thinks the policies were added without  his knowledge and consent. Ive considered 
what hes said but Ive also looked  at the other evidence  available to come  to a decision on 
what I think is more likely  to have happened. 
The PPI was first taken over the phone about  seven months after the store  card account  had 
been set up. Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  the call recording is no 
longer available for me to listen to  so I cant say what exactly  was discussed at the time.  
But as Mr R already  had the credit in place I think he wouldve known the PPI was an 
optional extra and not a condition of having the store  card. And without  any persuasive 
evidence to make me think otherwise, I think its unlikely FICL wouldve  added the PPI to his 
account without  his permission. Mr R later cancelled this policy, so this is further evidence  
that he knew the policy was optional and that he knew  it was in place at the time. 
Ive also considered the second sale which took place in 1999 and again FICL has provided 
evidence to show this sale took place over the phone as well. And even  though the call 
recording isnt available  for this sale either, as Mr R previously had a PPI policy on this 
account and had cancelled it I think he wouldve known the PPI was optional. I also dont 
think FICL wouldve  added this second policy to his account after hed cancelled the policy  
unless he explicitly agreed to it. 
So based  on the evidence Ive seen  and without any stronger evidence to the contrary, I 
think FICL made it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take out either  of the PPI policies and he 
chose to take it out on both occasions   although  I can understand why he cant remember  
this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI policies to Mr R so it didnt  have to check  if they were right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide  if the 
cover was right for him.
Ref: DRN52150232As I dont have either call recording to listen to I dont know what  information was given to 
Mr R over the phone.  But I think its possible the information FICL  gave  him about the PPI 
policies wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances from 1996 and from 1999  it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if something 
went wrong. And so I dont think better  information  about PPI on either  occasion  would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.
Mr R says he didnt need PPI as he had savings  he couldve used to make  his repayments. 
But there has been inconsistent evidence about whether or not Mr R had any savings in 
1996 or 1999. So I cant place as much weight  on this evidence  as Mr R wouldve liked me 
to. But even if I accept  that its possible Mr R has some savings in place in 1996  and 1999, 
the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mr Rs outstanding  monthly balance until the end date or Mr R 
stopped being (or stopped being able to prove  he was)  unemployed or disabled or the 
outstanding balance had been  paid for any one unemployment or disability claim. And this 
wouldve been paid in addition to his savings at the time, so these funds couldve remained 
protected or been used  for other expenses at the time. Overall  I think  the PPI policies 
wouldve been useful  for Mr R.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5215023