K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the sale of his home following it being repossessed by Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS). He believes it was sold for less than it was worth  and disagrees that it 
was suffering from subsidence. In addition, Mr D is unhappy that BoS is pursuing him for the 
shortfall (the difference between the mortgage amount and the sale value) because of the 
amount of time that has passed since the house  was sold.
background
Mr D took out a mortgage with BoS in 2007.  Several years  later he experienced a period of 
financial difficulty, personal problems and a deterioration in his mental  health.  This resulted 
in him leaving the property and it being  repossessed by BoS. Mr D told us that he was 
homeless when he left the property.
The property was valued in early 2013 by a surveyor and an estate agent on behalf  of BoS. 
Evidence of structural movement was identified by the surveyor  and it valued  the property at 
£75,000, pending further information about the structural problems. The estate  agent  thought  
the property would sell for £67,500  and should be marketed at £70,000.  The estate agent 
noted that the property had previously been  marketed  by another estate agent at £90,000; 
but hadnt sold at that price. 
Following marketing the property an offer of £65,000  was accepted by BoS. The buyers 
mortgage lender  required  a full structural report on the property due to the signs  of 
movement. It was established that the movement was subsidence, the damage  was 
significant and would  cost around  £15,000  to £20,000 to repair  and make  the property safe. 
This meant the buyer pulled out. 
The surveyor said the structural problems meant  the property would only be able to be sold 
to a cash buyer, so the property was sent to auction.  The property value was reassessed  by 
the surveyor and it was thought to be worth in the region of £46,000.
The property was sold on 7 November 2013  for £40,000. This left a shortfall debt of slightly  
over £68,000.
In the spring of 2018 BoS arranged for a debt recovery agent to pursue the shortfall on its 
behalf. The first part of this process  was to attempt  to find Mr D, as BoS understandably 
didnt have an up-to-date  address for him. 
Mr D told us that he spoke to the debt recovery agent in the summer  of 2018. He said that 
based on his account of what  had happened  and when, he was told the debt couldnt  be 
pursued as more than six years had passed.  There is no corresponding entry on the debt 
recovery agents records. However, the debt recovery agents notes show  that Mr D was 
contacted by telephone  in the spring of 2019.  He wasnt happy  and contacted  this service. 
We explained he needed to tell BoS about his concerns before we could become involved. 
Mr D made  a complaint  to BoS.
BoS responded to Mr Ds complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said the price the property sold 
for reflected the subsidence problem  and damage. It said that it was legally entitled to 
pursue the shortfall debt and it would  continue to do so. Mr D wasnt  happy with BoS 
response and asked us to look into the complaint. 
Ref: DRN50080542One of our investigators  considered it, but he didnt recommend  the complaint be upheld.  
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions and the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a property is repossessed,  a lender  has a duty to obtain the best price possible within  
a reasonable period. This means  that it would be inappropriate  for a lender to reject  a 
reasonable offer in the pursuit of a slightly higher one that might  not ever come into 
existence and would  delay the sale unreasonably.  This is because while  the property is 
being marketed,  interest  on the debt and other costs continue to accumulate. So delays can 
prove costly  to a consumer and a balance between speed and monetary value has to be 
reached by the lender. 
Due to the time that has elapsed there is limited information about the repossession  and 
property sale. However,  the evidence we have is that BoS went  through  the correct 
processes once it had repossessed the property. It had the property valued by two 
professionals and marketed it in a timely  manner.  It accepted an offer that was only slightly  
below the lower of the two valuations. 
When the degree of the structural problems was discovered, the property was sold at 
auction. This was because, in general, lenders wont lend on properties that have ongoing 
subsidence problems,  so a cash buyer was needed. When  a property needs such  a niche 
purchaser, they tend to be sold through  auctions.
I know that Mr D is concerned about  BoS saying that the property was suffering from 
subsidence when  it repossessed it, as this wasnt identified in 2006  or 2007 when the house 
was bought/re-mortgaged. Subsidence is something  that can appear at any time and the fact 
that it wasnt happening or, if it was, wasnt obvious when previous surveys were  carried  out, 
doesnt mean that it wasnt happening in 2013. The assessments  of the property appear to 
have been done by appropriately qualified individuals, so BoS was entitled to rely on the 
opinions provided.
Overall, I dont  think BoS did anything wrong in relation to the sale of the property. As such, 
I have no reason to question the amount of the shortfall debt established at the end of 2013.
Mr D wasnt immediately contacted about the shortfall debt. That is unfortunate but given his 
explanation of his circumstances at the time, its not surprising. He has said that when he left 
the property he was unwell and homeless. Without an address to contact him at, BoS 
wouldnt have been able to speak to him about the debt.
As our investigator and BoS have  pointed out, there are timescales linked to the pursuit of a 
shortfall debt. The legal  position  is that there is limitation period  of twelve  years. There  is 
also guidance from the Council of Mortgage  Lenders that the lender should  inform the 
consumer of the intention of pursuing the debt within six years. BoS contacted Mr D within  
both timescales and so I dont think it acted inappropriately in relation  to its pursuit of the 
shortfall debt. 
Ref: DRN50080543my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 29 
October 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008054