K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  (Ageas) didnt pay him enough for his car 
when it was written off in an accident.
background
Following an accident in September 2018,  Ageas  paid Mr N £2,425 for his car when it was 
written off in an accident. It used  figures  provided  by two of the national  motor trade guides 
(Glasss and Parkers) to decide what the pre-accident market value of Mr Ns car was. 
Ageas said that Mr Ns car had pre-accident damage which  it estimated wouldve cost just 
under £700  to put right. So it deducted  £250  from the cars  value for this damage.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ns complaint. He said we normally think  its fair for an 
insurer to assess a cars pre-accident market value in the way that Ageas had done. He also 
said advertised car sale prices are normally inflated  because  car dealers often build in a 
margin to allow for negotiation  on the final sale price. So we dont place a lot of weight on 
them when looking at how a business values a car.
The adjudicator checked the information  that Ageas had used when valuing Mr Ns car. He 
said the valuations  took into account that Mr Ns car had been properly maintained  and was 
in good condition prior to the accident.  He also did some further research. He found  several  
examples of cars like Mr Ns car on sale for around the same amount that Ageas had paid to 
Mr N. So the adjudicator concluded  that the way Ageas had reached its settlement figure for 
Mr Ns car seemed fair, as it was within the range of prices hed also found.  
Mr N remained  unhappy with Ageas offer as he didnt think  it took into account the money 
hed recently spent on servicing  the car. He also said he wasnt able to buy a like-for-like  
replacement with the amount hed received from Ageas.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  considered  everything,  Im not 
upholding it. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator has explained our approach to dealing with complaints about valuations. We 
generally think its fair for insurers to rely on motor trade guide prices, as theyre  based  on 
extensive national  research of likely selling prices. We think  adverts can be unreliable.  Thats 
partly because they usually show prices  that are open to negotiation. Theres  often  also 
great variation between  advertised prices for what seem to be similar  cars.
The motor  guide  valuations also assume the car is roadworthy and has been  maintained,  
with an up-to-date service  history. So the fact Mr N had recently  spent money on servicing 
and maintaining his car, this wouldnt generally  increase its value.
Having considered everything, I think Ageas acted reasonably when it provided the valuation 
for Mr Ns car. It offered Mr N the average  valuation of those set out in the two main trade 
guides. 
Ref: DRN57068922During his investigation, our adjudicator  ran his own checks  to establish the trade valuations 
of Mr Ns car in September 2018.  The figures  he found were  broadly in line with the figures  
that Ageas had used. 
And as Ive said, I note the valuations were based  on the pre-accident value of the car being  
in good condition. With this in mind  I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to make a 
deduction to the cars  market value based  on the fact that it already had some damage, 
which was present before this accident  happened.
Turning to the pre-accident damage  itself, Ageas inspection report  notes scratches on both 
wing mirrors, damage to the offside door, and damage to the rear bumper and one of the 
panels. It has also provided pictures of this damage and I agree its more than likely  this 
wasnt related to the accident linked to Mr Ns claim. Ageas estimated this damage wouldve 
cost just under £700 to put right and it has provided evidence  to back up this figure. Id 
usually consider it reasonable for the insurer to deduct around half of this value when 
calculating its settlement, so in this instance I think Ageas  was reasonable to deduct less 
than that at £250.
Ive also conducted  my own checks into the valuation of Mr Ns vehicle, again using several 
of the national motor trade guides  Glasss, CAP and Cazana. The figures  I found  were 
£2,800, £2,570 and £2,475 respectively. These figures are broadly in line with the figures  
used by Ageas.
So whilst its not an exact science, Ageas pre-accident value of £2,675 (the average of 
£2,570 and £2,780) minus  £250  for pre-accident damage, seems fair.
Mr N was bound to be disappointed to be offered less than he thinks  his car is worth. And I 
know he believes he should be paid closer  to £3,000, considering  hed insured it with an 
estimated value of £3,200 just a few months before the accident. But Mr Ns insurance policy 
was a market value policy   rather than an actual value policy. This means  that in the 
event of a write-off Ageas would pay the pre-accident  market value for the car, and not a set 
value agreed up front. I know  this is important to Mr N, but its fairly standard for cars to be 
insured with this type of insurance policy, and Ageas has acted in line with normal  industry 
practice and Mr Ns policy. So I dont  think it has acted unfairly.
After Mr N brought his complaint to this service he raised another complaint point. He says 
that hes aware his car is being driven  around, despite being told it couldnt be repaired. 
He also says that he asked Ageas if he could have the car back so that he could repair  it 
himself, but Ageas declined this.
As our adjudicator explained, its fairly common for insurance companies to sell written off 
cars to salvage companies, to recover some of the cost of the claims they pay out. And it 
seems as though  thats whats happened here  its likely that someone purchased the 
salvage car to repair, and has since  put it back on the road.  But what I need  to consider is 
whether Mr N did in fact make it clear  that he wanted to have the car  which  he still owned 
 returned to him.
Ive been in touch with Ageas to ask it about  any contact it had with Mr N throughout the 
claim. And it has provided telephone  notes  from around the time. I can see there were  
several calls between Ageas and Mr N about the claim  and in particular, the valuation.
Ref: DRN57068923Having reviewed the notes carefully, its certainly clear that Mr N wasnt satisfied with the 
valuation of his car. I can see that he initially spoke to Ageas about  this on 18 September  
2018, and after what is described in the notes as a long conversation  the notes suggest 
that Mr N accepted the valuation in full and final settlement of the claim. The payment 
request was then made by Ageas. I wouldve expected Mr N to say that he wanted his 
salvage returned at that point in time if thats what he wanted, but there isnt any evidence  to 
suggest this.
Around a week  later, it looks like Mr N called Ageas again to dispute the valuation. The note 
from this call suggests that he said he wasnt able to replace his car for a similar one with the 
payment Ageas had made. There isnt a lot of information in this note, but it looks as though 
Mr N was told the next stage was for the case to be escalated to a complaint, and a final 
response letter issued  a couple  of days later. 
Having looked  at all the notes Im not persuaded that Mr N expressed a strong  desire to 
retain the salvage. And I can see that the engineer commented that the car wasnt retained 
due to the structural damage  so overall, I dont  think Ageas has acted unreasonably here.
For the reasons  Ive explained in my decision,  I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly in how it 
reached its valuation  of Mr Ns car. And I havent seen  enough  to make me think it refused to 
return the car to Mr N instead  of proceeding with the claim, nor that Mr N expressed a strong  
desire for this to happen.  So I dont require  Ageas  to put anything right. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N but I dont  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5706892