K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) secured a County Court  judgment (CCJ)  
against her for a debt she understood to have been settled and was over 11 years old. She 
says the debt is unenforceable and asks that the CCJ to be removed.
background
Mrs T held a credit card with an outstanding  balance. In August 2012, the original lender 
wrote to Mrs T explaining it had appointed a debt collection agency  to recover  the debt.
 In March 2017, the original lender wrote to Mrs T again. It said it had assigned  all of its 
rights, title and interest in the outstanding  debt to Arrow, from February 2017. It said the 
outstanding balance was £2,757.94 and any future payments should  be made directly to 
Arrows appointed  agents. Arrow  appointed the same agents as Lloyds had previously used 
in an attempt to collect the outstanding balance.
Mrs T says she understood  this letter to mean  the debt collection agency would no longer be 
chasing her for the debt as it had been sold. She was very concerned  when the same 
collection agency started to contact  her. She understood  the debt to have been  settled  and 
points out that a successful PPI claim was paid by Lloyds. She feels  if there  was an 
outstanding debt, Lloyds would or should  have  deducted it from her PPI claim. Mrs T feels 
Arrow have  pursued  her and obtained  a CCJ unfairly and without any evidence of the 
original agreement.
In its final response dated 4 February  2019,  Arrow  didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It said it 
issued court proceedings on 26 March 2018. After it had done  so, Mrs T spoke with a 
representative to say she had settled the debt with the collection agents prior to processing  
being issued.   The Arrow representative  explained  that as court  proceeding had already 
been instigated  it couldnt put a hold on the account,  but suggested Mrs T file and 
Acknowledgement of Service with the court in order  to give her further time to provide 
evidence of payment  and file a defence to the County Court Summons.
Arrow confirmed it received the Acknowledgment of Service on 27 March 2018.  This meant  
Mrs T had until 10 April 2018 to file a defence and provide  evidence  the debt had been  
settled. It says a defence  wasnt  received  and on 6 November, it wrote  to Mrs T requesting  
the evidence and explaining if it didnt  receive  it within 7 days  it would apply to the court  for 
Judgement to be entered. It did not receive a response and so on 22 November 2018; it 
made an application to life the stay on proceedings and applied  for Judgement,  which was 
granted for £2885.33 on 4 December 2018.
Mrs T complained to this service and an investigator  looked into things  for Mrs T. He didnt 
find any evidence to suggest the debt had been settled. He understood Mrs Ts confusion  
especially considering  both the original  lender  and Arrow both used the same collection 
agents. But this didnt negate Mrs Ts responsibility  to pay the outstanding balance.  He found 
Arrow had acted fairly and reasonably and so didnt ask it do anything further.
Mrs T responded and raised two further complaint points. She said she wasnt  aware of the 
matter was going to court  and wasnt told about a hearing date. She feels  she shouldve  
been invited to attend court and put forward a defence.  
The investigator looked into Mrs Ts additional concerns. He looked  at the court  application 
papers and found Arrow had selected  the proceedings  to be authorised without a hearing. 
Ref: DRN54051972As this was an option offered by the court, he couldnt say Arrow had done anything wrong 
and so he maintained his earlier view that Arrow  had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs T disagreed. She feels very strongly the court action was unfair  and the debt is 
unenforceable. She asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same  view as the investigator. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think its important to say at the outset my decision only concerns  the actions taken by 
Arrow and Ive looked to see if they acted  fairly  and reasonably in seeking  to recover  the 
outstanding balance. I can see from the information  provided the original  lender  assigned  a 
credit card balance to Arrow in February  2017.
I can understand why Mrs T found  the whole  matter confusing after the original lender and 
Arrow used  the same  collection agents  in an attempt to recover  the outstanding balance. 
That said,  Ive looked carefully at the letter from original lender. It explains very clearly  that it 
has sold the debt and has no further  interest in it, it says that it has assigned (sold)  it to 
Arrow and gives the name and contact details  of the collection agents. It also clearly says all 
future payments and arrangements  should  be made through them.
As I understand it, Mrs T has acknowledged  that she hasnt settled the debt directly with the 
collection agents and so whilst she may have been  confused about who was collecting the 
debt for whom, it doesnt negate her responsibility for the outstanding balance, indeed,  Mrs T 
doesnt appear to dispute the original  credit card balance.
Im satisfied that the original lender notified  Mrs T of the assignment to Arrow.  Arrow are 
within its rights to use any collection  agents  they choose to recover  the outstanding balance  
so Ive then looked to see if the actions it took were fair and reasonable.  Although Im only 
looking at Arrows actions Ive looked at the system  notes of both it and its collection agents.  I 
can see that Mrs T had numerous  telephone communications throughout the time the 
collection agents were  recovering  the balance. This included a number of different 
repayment arrangements. So, Im persuaded Mrs T was aware of the outstanding balance 
and agreed to a number  of repayment  arrangements. When  no further payments were 
received, Arrow Global  instructed  its solicitors to start court proceedings.
Ive carefully considered  the court documents and Ive noted Mrs Ts concerns about  not 
being informed  the matter  was going to court. When Arrow issued  court proceedings on 
26 March 2018,  it says Mrs T spoke to them and explained she had settled the matter  with 
the collection agents prior to the court proceedings being issued. It says it advised  Mrs T to 
file an acknowledgment of service  to give her additional time to send it evidence  of the 
settlement. Mrs T filed the acknowledgment of service  on 27 March 2018 and had until 
10 April to file a defence to evidence  there  was no sums owed.
Ref: DRN54051973Mrs T didnt  file a defence  and Arrows solicitors  didnt receive any further correspondence. I 
can see Arrow issued a letter on 6 November 2018, nearly seven months  later, requesting 
the evidence Mrs T referred  to be sent within 7 days or it would apply to lift the stay on 
proceedings and ask for Judgment to be entered. On 22 November, having received no 
further information, it re-commenced proceedings and the court  entered  judgement  on 
4 December 2018.
Im satisfied Arrow  offered Mrs T the opportunity to provide evidence  of her claim that the 
debt had been settled and gave  her sufficient time to do so. When  no further information was 
forthcoming, it gave  notice of its intention to recommence proceedings. Im satisfied Arrow l 
werent acting unreasonably  or unfairly  in doing  so. The option to carry out proceedings 
without a hearing is offered by the court, so Im not able to say Arrow have done anything 
wrong in selecting  that option.  Mrs T couldve have  filed a defence  and requested a hearing 
with the court at the time but that would be at the courts  discretion  and not something Im 
able to consider.  
Its important to note that, although the Financial  Ombudsman Service  is an alternative to the 
court, we are not part of the judicial  system. This means we cant overturn, override or 
change anything a court has ordered.  If Mrs T wishes to have set aside the judgement,  she 
will need  to apply directly  to the court.
I know Mrs T will be disappointed but Im satisfied Arrow have acted fairly and reasonably 
here so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further.   
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5405197