K821x#15Complaint
Mr J has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  added  interest,  
fees and charges to his overdraft which caused financial difficulty and his account to close.
Background
Mr J has also complained  about a payment not been returned to the sender when his 
account was closed. But weve already told him thats a separate  issue hell need to take up 
with Halifax and so it wont  form part of this decision.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought Halifax  should have realised  
Mr Js overdraft had become unsustainable for him in June  2017.  Halifax didnt respond and 
Mr J disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman  for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mr Js overdraft in 
June 2017. 
By this point, Halifax would have seen that Mr J had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months.  In other  words, Mr Js account  remained persistently  overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Equally  Mr J had moved  further away  from being able to 
return to a credit balance in the period since the last review had been carried out. Its also 
clear that Mr J was resorting to payday  and other high-cost forms of credit in order to repay 
existing creditors and make ends meet. 
So I think that by June 2017,  Halifax should have stopped providing the overdraft  on the 
same terms  and treated  Mr J with forbearance rather than adding  even more fees and 
charges on the overdraft . 
As Halifax didnt react  to Mr Js overdraft usage  and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr J ended up paying 
additional interest, fees and charges when he was already experiencing difficulty. So Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of Halifax failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive also thought  about  Mr Js unhappiness  at his facility  being 
withdrawn and his account being  sold to third-party debt purchasers. 
However, Im upholding Mr Js complaint because I think that Halifax  should  have started the 
process of withdrawing  his overdraft, in June 2017, because it ought  to have realised that he 
was already in financial  difficulty.  As Ive found  that this is the case, Im satisfied that it 
wasnt unreasonable for Halifax  to take this action a year later.
Ref: DRN50841922Ive also looked  at what Mr J has said about being pursued for the wrong account. It is 
accurate to say that one of the third-party collection  agents used  a different account number 
from that of Mr Js previous Halifax account  number. However, this is because it assigned its 
own reference/account number for the account. And having looked at everything,  Im 
satisfied that the payments Mr J was asked to make did relate  to his account.
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr J.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Js overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges (not 
already refunded) applied to it from June  2017  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr J to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If Halifax  considers it appropriate  to record negative information on Mr Js 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on Mr Js account in June 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr J along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Js credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr J a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
At this stage its unclear whether Halifax still owns the debt on Mr Js account.  If Halifax  did 
sell any outstanding balance on this account  to a third-party debt purchaser, it will need to 
either buy the account back  from the third-party and make the necessary adjustments, pay 
an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary adjustments,  or pay Mr J 
an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr Js complaint. Bank  of Scotland plc should  put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084192