K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  has changed the terms of 
his pension policy.
background
Mr D has a deferred annuity policy with Prudential and in February  2018  they sent him an 
early retirement quotation. Mr D contacted Prudential querying  why it was about  20% lower  
than what he was quoted in August 2017.
Prudential explained  this was because theyd changed the transfer and commutation  basis 
they use to calculate early  retirement quotations.  This was following a review to ensure the 
basis they use provides  a fair value, complies with policy terms and satisfies legal 
requirements. Consequently some  policyholders,  like Mr D, had been impacted by this 
change with their quoted  income reduced. This change  took effect on 11 December 2017.
Mr D contacted our service about this matter. Our investigator obtained further clarification 
from Prudential about the reasons for the drop in value but he didnt think there was anything  
further we could do. Mr D continued to correspond with Prudential  after this and it came to 
light that the majority  of the reduction  in benefits between  August  2017 and February  2018  
wasnt as a result of a change in the transfer  and commutation basis  used. But rather  it was 
due to the removal of paying an additional  pension as a result of correcting a calculation 
error in relation to Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) benefits.
Mr D complained about the removal  of the additional  pension benefit. He felt it was a change 
of the policy  terms and so he, along with other policyholders,  shouldve been notified  about 
it.
Prudential explained  the additional pension  is no longer generated under the new calculation  
method to reflect the fact GMP benefits  will be paid from GMP  pension  age when a member 
retires early. They didnt  think  this was a change  to the policy and said term 3.1.2 indicates 
that their early retirement  calculation may produce an additional pension  from the GMP 
benefits, it doesnt say it will. They also added that they dont write to policyholders when 
making changes  to the assumptions they use to calculate early  retirement  benefits,  as such 
changes are permitted  under the terms of the policy,
Prudential did however accept they shouldve explained this to Mr D sooner and that their 
initial explanation for the reduction was misleading.  They apologised to Mr D for this and 
provided £300 for the distress  and inconvenience this caused.
Mr D referred  the matter to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but he didnt uphold it. 
He said Prudential had confirmed that although  the current assumptions used in their 
calculations meant  no additional pension was payable  at this time this could change in the 
future. And so he thought this was in line with the wording of the policy  as it says an 
additional pension  may be payable. The investigator also didnt think Prudential had to notify  
Mr D, or other policyholders, about  this as nothing had significantly changed about how the 
policy works.
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me to review.
Ref: DRN55205522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Policy term 3.1.2 says:
Where the Commencement Date is prior to the Normal Retirement Date  and the 
GMP Pension Date, an additional  amount of pension (the additional  pension)  that is 
not Guaranteed Minimum Pension may become payable  due to the application  of 
clause 3.1.1(b) on any Pension Component described as Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension.
The above  term explains that the additional pension may become payable. Im therefore 
satisfied it isnt a guaranteed pension benefit  or something Prudential is necessarily obliged  
to pay Mr D. 
I appreciate Mr Ds disappointment with Prudentials decision to change the assumptions 
they use in their calculations as it led to a significant  drop in value of the early  retirement  
quotation he received  due to no additional  pension  being paid. And that in Mr Ds view this 
has been a change in the policy  terms as the additional pension  has effectively been 
removed. I understand  Mr D considers this is supported by emails sent by Prudential  that 
say the term has no practical application  and is redundant.
Ive carefully considered  this point and while I sympathise  with the impact this has had on 
Mr D, I disagree  that there has been a change of the policy  terms and Ill explain why.
As Ive explained, I consider the terms of the policy  are clear in setting out that the additional 
pension isnt guaranteed  as it says it may be payable. Im also aware Prudential has since  
confirmed that although  the assumptions  used in their calculations mean the additional 
pension isnt payable  at this time, theyve said this could change in the future. I appreciate 
Mr D has questioned the likeliness  of this actually happening but nevertheless,  Im satisfied 
that - depending  on whether Prudential change the assumptions they use in the future  along  
with on what basis  it could. It follows that Im satisfied Prudential  are providing benefits to 
Mr D in line with the policy terms.
I appreciate Mr D has said that if hed been told of the changes sooner, he couldve taken 
benefits earlier and therefore received the additional  pension that was included  as part of the 
August 2017 quotation. But as I dont consider Prudential has made a change to the policy 
terms, I dont think  they were required to notify  Mr D about this or that they had to obtain his 
consent before doing so. 
In any event, the changes came  in to effect  on 11 December  2017 which  was after the 
August 2017 quotation had expired. So even if Mr D had been told at this time, he still 
wouldnt have been able to obtain  the additional  pension as he wouldve had to request a 
new early retirement quotation  calculated using  the new assumptions.
I realise this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr D but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think Prudential has changed the terms of the policy.  Or that theyve acted 
wrongly by not notifying him of the change they made to the assumptions  they use to 
calculate pension  benefits.
Ref: DRN55205523I have however considered the trouble and upset  Prudential  caused Mr D by not providing 
him with the relevant information  sooner upon requesting an explanation for the drop in 
value of the early  retirement quotation. Having  done so I think the £300 theyve paid Mr D is 
a reasonable amount in recognition of this. So Im not going  to ask them to increase this 
further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520552