K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Miss K complain  about  the way in which U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) has handled 
their claim under  Mr Js travel insurance  and that it has refused to make any payment to 
them. 
My references to UKI include its agents. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. 
I explained that as the claim was for items  stolen  from Miss K she would need to join in the 
complaint, which  shes  now done. So the extract from my provisional decision refers mainly  
to Mr J because he had brought the complaint to us about the claim under his UKI policy, 
which covers them  both.
I said I intended to uphold this complaint in part, and I include an extract  from my provisional 
decision here:
Mr J and his fiance Miss K were travelling  abroad  on an extended trip. Just before 
departing on a cruise  to a remote area they took money from a cash  machine. Shortly  
afterwards Mr J said that Miss K was pickpocketed by a group of people. They reported the 
crime to the local police  and obtained a police report. Mr J also rang UKI to report the theft. 
When they returned to the UK Mr J made a claim to UKI for the items that were stolen: cash, 
an iPhone and headphones.  UKI asked for further  information. It then turned down the claim 
because it said there  had been inconsistencies  in the value of money reported as stolen and 
the evidence provided for the headphones. It didnt think  Mr J had satisfactorily explained  
these inconsistencies.  
Mr J complained about the decision  and the way in which his claim had been  investigated.  
He said UKI had harassed him by asking the same  question 20 times during one of the calls. 
He also complained about delays.  UKI said sorry for a delay in contacting him of 10 working 
days but didnt  have concerns about  the handling of its calls with Mr J. He came to us saying 
that UKI had been inconsistent and misleading  in the advice it had given him. 
Our investigator thought UKI had reached  a reasonable  decision on the claim and hadnt 
treated him unfairly. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J strongly  disagreed so the 
complaints come to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so Im likely to uphold it. 
UKI suggests Mr J exaggerated his claim  to obtain  a benefit he wasnt  entitled to. This is a 
serious allegation that shouldnt be made  lightly. So its for UKI to provide persuasive 
Ref: DRN57198072information that shows it is more likely than not that Mr J provided false information with a 
view to obtaining a benefit he wasnt entitled to. 
Ive also taken into account the law. In brief summary the law says that if an insurance claim 
is exaggerated  then the insurer is entitled not to pay the entire claim, even if part of that 
claim is for a genuine loss. 
The inconsistencies specified by UKI are around  the amount  of cash  stolen and who it was 
stolen from. UKI also says Mr J couldnt show that Miss K had owned the headphones. 
Ill summarise  the key evidence here: 
The police report lists the stolen items  as US$300, an iPhone worth  500 Euros and 
headphones. 
When he submitted the claim Mr J gave UKI a bank  statement showing consecutive cash  
withdrawals of US$200 and US$300  on the date of the robbery.
Immediately after the robbery Mr J called UKIs  emergency medical assistance line to 
register the claim before they left on the cruise to the remote  area.  He said he and Miss K 
had been pickpocketed and had cash,  a phone  and some quite expensive  headphones  
stolen. UKI asked him if he knew roughly how much cash had been  stolen and he said 
about US$300 or US$350. UKI told him the policy  limit of £250  per person. The mobile  
phone was covered  under  a separate policy. UKI asked him if he had a police report  and he 
said he had. UKI told him to keep it safe for the claim  which  could be made  for years  after 
the event (as he was worried about  time limits).  
Mr J then spoke to UKI in early March 2018  after he and Miss K had returned from their trip. 
Ive listened to that call. In summary:
Mr J said the thieves  had gone into Miss Ks pocket, where shed had cash, her 
phone and some  headphones.  The thieves  distracted them  and took everything from 
her pocket.  UKI asked  about  how much money was taken and he said about  
US$350. He said theyd split the money theyd taken out of the bank and they think it 
was about US$350 although theyd taken out a lot more money than that. 
UKI asked about the headphones, and Mr J said they were  quite expensive and a 
present from Miss Ks former  partner. UKI asked  if there was any proof  of ownership 
such as a box, a warranty, a photograph of them in her ears. Mr J said hed asked 
her about photographs and Miss K would  have a look,  and the value was about  £600 
to £700. UKI said the policy limit was £300 which Mr J said was a bit disappointing 
and he asked what would  happen  if Miss K couldnt find any photographs. UKI 
suggested going to the person whod bought  them  but as it was an ex-partner could 
see that would be difficult. UKI said it would pass Mr J over to the mobile  phone  
insurer.
UKI confirmed Mr J had reported the theft to the police and said there  was a £500 
limit on money and the personal effects  limit was £300. Mr J said that was 
disappointing and theyd just guesstimated  the amount of cash  she had on her and 
the amount he had on him. He and Miss K had taken out a lot of money  and he was 
guessing it was roughly that much. UKI asked  what was on the police report and he 
said hed put 500 euros   but didnt know  why. He then realised that 500 euros was 
Ref: DRN57198073for the phone. UKI said it would usually go off whats on the police report.  Mr J then 
said the police had put down US$300, but it had only just happened and they had 
been in a state of shock. He couldnt  remember saying that amount but must  have 
said something around that figure.  He said he was surprised hed underplayed it, 
and asked what he could  do about  it. UKI said very little unless he could go back  to 
the police  as that was evidence. Mr J said his bank statement showed US$1,000 had 
been taken out, and UKI said that didnt show how much was stolen. He mentioned 
that the police were  translating as they didnt speak English. UKIs call handler said 
the only thing  she could suggest was that he could put it in his covering letter,  but 
she thought that at some point he must have said 300 otherwise  the police could 
have put 800 or 1000. Mr J said again  that he must  have said something in the 
region of 300 but again said he was surprised  hed underplayed it and that they were 
using google  translate. 
UKI then said he should  send a brief description of what  had happened and the costs 
he wanted to claim.  He could  say what hed like to claim but UKI would usually go off 
the police  report.  He was asked to send in proof  of the withdrawal and something to 
show ownership of the headphones. Mr J said that was the sticking point but a 
warranty/box/photograph of her with them?  UKI said yes they could go online and 
show a replacement for that item as the photo doesnt show  the item. It was better  if 
he could provide something  as he knows what she had. 
UKI referred  the case  for further validation as it was concerned about the evidence provided 
for the headphones. 
UKI says that when  it spoke to Mr J on 19 July 2018  he gave it different information about  
the claim again. Ive asked to listen to that call but UKI says it is no longer available.  Based 
on its internal note UKI says that when it asked him about the discrepancy in the money 
claimed Mr J said hed been mugged and money had also been  stolen  from him. He said 
hed forgotten  about this. He couldnt  confirm how or when the photographs  were taken for 
the original headphones, or provide the original  photographs.  UKI thought  the photographs 
were of two different headphones and noted theyd been taken in a shop. 
On 20 July 2018 Mr J said hed spoken with Miss K and the photographs had been sent to 
her by her ex-partner. Mr J couldnt provide any evidence to support this. He said he recalled 
the photographs supplied were of the headphones  being claimed for. 
On 24 July 2018 UKI said it wouldnt  pay the claim because hed not provided suitable 
evidence to show ownership of the headphones  and because  of inconsistent information  
provided about the money being claimed for. UKI considers  that as a result of the changing 
circumstances Mr J was exaggerating the claim for his own gain. 
Mr J has told us that his claim for the stolen mobile  phone was accepted and paid. 
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence. Having done so I make the following findings:
Im not currently persuaded that UKI has done  enough  to show  that Mr J exaggerated the 
claim for the stolen cash for the following  reasons:  
Mr J said from the outset that he couldnt  be sure of the exact amount stolen when 
Miss K was pickpocketed,  but it was between US$300 and US$350.  Hes been  
Ref: DRN57198074consistent about that in both the initial  notification  of loss call and in the call made in 
March 2018.  
Mr J has provided evidence to show that money  had been withdrawn on the date of 
the robbery.  He provided a police report showing US$300 was stolen and his 
explanation of what happened was consistent both in the initial notification call and 
the March  2018  call. Ive not seen anything to show where he actually claimed 
US$500, only that he sent in proof that cash  had been withdrawn,  as UKI had asked 
him to do. Ive asked  for details  of any additional  claim for cash  hed made but UKI 
has sent only the bank  statement. 
UKI says that Mr J told it that hed been  pickpocketed too and hed forgotten about 
that. This is important evidence  and the onus  is on UKI to show that Mr J 
exaggerated his claim. But UKI has been  unable to send us the call where he is 
alleged to have said that so that I can hear exactly what he said and the context in 
which it was said.  It is also this call where Mr J says he was harassed by UKIs 
investigator and that he was asked the same  question 20 times over.  
I dont think Mr J did enough  to prove  his claim for the stolen headphones,  so I think  UKI was 
entitled to reject the claim for the headphones:
Mr J did provide consistent information that Miss Ks earphones had been  stolen.  
They were specifically  mentioned on the police report, the first notification of loss call 
and in the March 2018 claim  call. I think,  on balance,  the headphones were stolen 
and Mr J was entitled to claim for them. 
But the policy does  require Mr J to give UKI proof of ownership  of the stolen item. 
Mr J was clear  from the outset that it would be difficult for him to provide proof of 
ownership of the headphones, because they were a gift from Miss Ks former partner. 
He says that he was asked  to provide a box and a photograph of Miss K wearing  the 
headphones and this is what he did. And there  was a discussion with UKI about him 
providing something from the internet.
I think UKI was entitled  to investigate this claim, as the photograph of Miss K wearing 
the headphones showed her wearing different ones from the one in the box she was 
holding up in a shop. Hes explained  that he thought  he was doing  what  UKI had 
asked him. Im not convinced that UKI properly considered  the context in which Mr J 
had provided these photographs.  UKI says he told it that shed got the photographs 
from her ex-partner, but then he couldnt show that. Ive not heard the call when he 
said that. Ultimately I think Mr J was trying to provide the information UKI had asked 
for. But I dont think there  is any compelling  proof of ownership  so I dont think  I can 
fairly require UKI to pay the claim for the headphones.
UKI has accepted  some  delay in giving Mr J its claim  decision.  It took around  three  months 
for UKI to investigate  the claim. I think UKI was entitled to investigate the claim and so I dont 
think there was unreasonable delay in this case.  I know Mr J complains  about  harassment 
during the investigation call. Its unfortunate I cant listen to the call. But these conversations 
can often be robust and, on balance, even if UKIs repeatedly asked a question  I dont think 
theres enough for me to make a finding of harassment. 
If UKI has registered details of this claim and the alleged  fraud  against  Mr Js name on any 
internal or external  database then it should  confirm  in writing that it will be removed. 
Ref: DRN57198075Finally, the claim concerns cash and earphones stolen from Miss K  even if the cash 
belonged to them both  so I think the complaint should be in Mr J and Miss Ks joint names. 
Ive asked our investigator to contact Mr J to arrange for Miss K also to be added to this 
complaint as a joint complainant. Provided Miss K does then so its likely  my decision and 
redress will be as set out below:
I intend to require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr J and Miss Ks claim for the US$300 
cash that was stolen, subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess. UKI must add 
simple interest* to the claim  payment from 6 March 2018 when Mr J made the claim to the 
date it pays him and Miss K for the stolen cash. I dont require it to pay their claim for the 
headphones or any compensation for its handling  of the claim.  
I also intend to require UKI to confirm whether it has made  an entry  of alleged fraud against 
Mr J and/or Miss Ks name and, if so, to confirm in writing that it has removed that entry  from 
any internal or external  database.
responses
Mr J arranged for Miss K to sign our complaint form. He thanked  me for looking into the 
matter in detail  and for partly finding  in his favour.  He wasnt  aware  of the possibility of any 
fraud registration, which was a significant  concern. 
Mr J said hed done all he could to show hed proved the claim by sending a photo of Miss K 
wearing the headphones  and a box showing the brand  in line with UKIs request for proof 
of ownership. So hes unhappy and unclear why this aspect of the claim isnt being  upheld, 
given Id accepted that the headphones had been stolen.
UKI responded to say that it had found the 19 July 2018 call recording, and sent it to us. It 
said it was sure that the content of the call would change the outcome. We asked UKI to say 
whether it had registered any information against  Mr J and/or Miss Ks names but its not 
responded. 
We sent the call recording  to Mr J for any comments. He has said,  in summary, that the 
conversation is consistent with what  hes set out previously.  He was called out of the blue, 
while at work. Hed been  told earlier that he could claim for other items and to provide the 
information that he had. Any slight inconsistency at the beginning of the conversation is 
based on that earlier, and conflicting advice. He provided the photographs  in the format 
requested (jpeg), from an old WhatsApp message,  and they didnt have the originals 
because theyd been taken by an ex-partner. Hed provided everything asked and UKI called 
him four months after the claim  (and nine months after the incident) to ask for original 
photographs. UKI has used this information  to delay and avoid paying the claim and to label 
him as making a fraudulent  claim is outrageous.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still uphold  it in part. 
Ive reviewed the complaint again  in the light of all the information provided.  
Ref: DRN57198076Now that Ive listened to the July call recording I dont think the conversation supports UKIs 
case. Mr J had said from the outset of his claim that they werent  clear  how much money 
was stolen, and he confirmed the majority was taken  from Miss K. Hed also said from the 
outset that the police report had been made shortly after the theft and the situation had been 
traumatic.
During the call UKI told Mr J that hed not reported  the October theft to it until March. But 
thats not correct.  And Mr J correctly says that he did report  it on the night of the theft. Ive 
heard the call when  he reported  it. 
UKI asked  Mr J about the photographs. He explained hed provided the information that UKI 
had asked for, via Miss K and thought  it was from a WhatsApp photograph from Miss Ks 
ex-partner who had bought the earphones for her. He was unsure about  it as it was several 
months since hed sent the photographs. 
I dont think UKI was very clear about  how Mr J should send the photograph in a different 
format when he explained it had been  taken from a WhatsApp message. That said,  I think 
the concern UKI had was that the photograph of Miss K wearing the earphones was taken in 
a shop and the second photograph, also in a shop, showed her holding  a box showing the 
brand. Its not clear  to me that the photograph showed ownership of the earphones of the 
brand and type stolen. For that reason, I remain of the view that UKI fairly turned down the 
claim for the earphones.  
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I remain of the view that UKI should pay 
the claim for the stolen cash. It hasnt confirmed whether any details  of the claim were 
registered on any internal or external fraud  database, but for the avoidance of doubt it must 
remove any entry as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint in part. 
Within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr J and Miss K accept  this final decision I require 
U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr J and Miss Ks claim  for the US$300 cash that was stolen, 
subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess.  UKI must  add simple interest* to the 
claim payment from 6 March 2018 when Mr J made  the claim to the date it pays him and 
Miss K for the stolen  cash. I dont require it to pay their claim for the headphones or any 
compensation for its handling of the claim. 
I also require UKI to confirm to Mr J and Miss K in writing whether it has made an entry  of 
alleged fraud  against  Mr J and/or Miss Ks name  and, if so, also to confirm to them  in writing 
that it has removed  that entry from any internal or external database.  
Ref: DRN57198077Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr J and Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J 
and Miss K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5719807