K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains esure Insurance Limited hasnt properly repaired his car following an 
accident. 
background
Mr M had his car insured with esure. In December 2017 Mr M returned to his car to find that 
it had been hit on the driver side (the off-side) and damage caused. He submitted a claim to 
esure who arranged  for a repair  to be carried out by its approved repairer. 
In May 2018, Mr M took his car to a dealership that inspected it as a knocking noise was 
coming from the front. It reported the damage appeared to be coming from the near-side  
(passenger side) front drive shaft  and that it could be incident  related but a further inspection 
was necessary. Mr M complained to esure as he believed his car hadnt  been fully repaired;  
the knocking was as a result of the incident. 
esure arranged  for an independent inspection to be carried  out by which time the car had 
done an additional 6,000 miles since the repair. The engineer concluded the drive  shaft  
hadnt been damaged  as a result  of accident but was suffering with wear  and tear. Mr M 
accepted this at the time and arranged a repair. However, the knocking noise returned and 
so he took it back  to a dealership. This time the dealership believed  the knocking  noise was 
coming from the off-side drive shaft and arranged a repair  at further cost to Mr M. He has 
since sold the car as he didnt feel safe in it, which he is upset about  as it had great  
sentimental value.   
Mr M complained to esure  as he spent money  repairing his car following the independent 
inspection, which diagnosed the wrong  issue. And he still believed  the issues relating to his 
off-side drive  shaft were as a result  of the incident.  esure wasnt  persuaded any damage to 
the off-side drive shaft was as a result of the incident, but it did pay Mr M £500  for the 
inconvenience caused by the wrong  information  in the independent  report and what he spent 
on a part. 
Not happy with that, Mr M asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator was satisfied 
esure had dealt with the claim fairly.  It had reimbursed Mr M for the part he had paid for as a 
result of the independent report, and there  was still no evidence  the issues with the drive 
shaft was as a result  of the incident.  
Mr M has asked  for the matter to be considered further. He argues that he has done all the 
running around to get the car fixed. He would also like us to speak with dealership before 
issuing a decision. It was explained  by the investigator we should  have all the information  we 
need. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied esure  has already fairly resolved this matter.  
Ref: DRN56882092As esure has already accepted the claim and repairs been  carried out my consideration is 
solely in relation to whether or not esure have properly indemnified  Mr M for the damage to 
his car. 
It is accepted by the parties that there  was a knocking at the front of Mr Ms car. But there 
has been a great deal of confusion as to where that originated from. The invoice from 
dealership dated 24 May 2018 suspected there had been damage  to the near-side drive 
shaft as a result of the incident, but that further  inspection was needed. It was following this 
that Mr M complained to esure and it arranged an independent inspection.  The report from 
that set out that:
I was advised  by the third party of the following complaints/faults:
1.Damage to the left hand front drive  shaft.  
The engineer concluded any issues with the drive shaft were  as a result  of wear and tear, 
and not the incident.  I understand Mr M accepted the outcome and arranged  his own repair, 
which didnt resolve  the knocking sound.  I further understand the issue ultimately originated 
with the off-side  drive  shaft. 
esure has paid Mr M £500 compensation for this. But I dont think I would have awarded this 
sum if esure  hadnt  already  offered  it. I say this because the independent report  appears  to 
have been carried  out on the basis of where  Mr M said the problem was  and he 
presumably took that information from the dealerships original inspection. Furthermore, the 
report was independent so not carried out by a party working on behalf  of esure, even if it 
arranged it. Im not aware that esure would have any liability  for any wrong  doing  by the 
independent engineer in law, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to find it 
has any liability here. 
Mr M had further inspections carried out at the dealership  who then discovered the issue  
was with the off-side drive shaft, contrary  to its earlier inspection. The drive shaft needed  
replacing, work I understand to have been carried out. However, the only information we 
have from the dealership  is the invoices for the work and an e-mail  from the service  team  
manager. The email  says it believes the issues stem from the impact damage to the car. 
I accept it is possible that as the issue  with the drive  shaft was as a result of the incident as 
the issue appears to be on the same side of the car as the impact.  But it is equally possible it 
isnt. I dont find the e-mail from the dealership very persuasive. It isnt from an engineer, or 
whoever inspected the car and there is no independent assessment or report concluding the 
damage was due to the incident. I note that earlier in the e-mail the service team manager 
refers to this kind of issue being normally due to impact damage. I dont find this persuasive 
evidence that any issue with the off-side drive shaft was due to the incident.  In reaching this 
conclusion, Im mindful that the car did a further 6,000 miles since  the repair  carried  out by 
esure. In the circumstances  I wont be asking esure  to do anything  further.  
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome, not least because the car had a 
great deal of sentimental value to him. But I can only ask esure  to do something or award  
compensation if Im persuaded it has done  something wrong.  Im not persuaded in this case  
that the evidence shows the issues with the drive  shaft were as a result of inadequate repair.  
Ref: DRN56882093my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5688209