K820x#14complaint 
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank PLC UK (Barclays) debited his account with a series of 
card payments totalling £6,385.59 which he says he didnt  make or otherwise authorise.
background
Mr T disputes making four payments to a gentlemens  club in Malta  on 13 October  2018  
which totalled £6,385.59. There were three attempted transactions  in the same  
establishment that failed  prior to these. The attempted and successful transactions took 
place between 2.38am and 5.00am. He is also unhappy that Barclays  allowed transactions  
to go through  when  his credit limit had been exceeded.
On the 13 October  2018, Mr T was in Malta for a stag party. He says on the night in question  
he went to a bar. He couldnt remember leaving the bar and felt he may have  fallen asleep  
there before coming to in the gentlemens club around 5am, without his friends. He sent a 
message to his friends and returned  to his hotel to sleep.  He explained he had a vague  
memory of being outside after the bar but didnt recall his entry into the gentlemens  club.
Mr T said he was alerted to the transactions when he woke, and contacted Barclays to 
dispute the transactions. He initially suggested that he could have been pickpocketed. He 
said he didnt record his PIN anywhere, but later told us it was recorded on his phone.  Hes 
also said that the payments likely took place when he was unconscious and someone could 
have taken his credit card and found his PIN on his fingerprint protected  phone. He put 
forward the idea that as he was passing  his phone  around all night  for people to take photos, 
someone could  have used this opportunity to get his PIN code  in order  to make the 
transactions. 
Mr T complained to Barclays but they refused to refund the disputed transactions as they 
believed Mr T authorised them. They said they were  verified through Chip and PIN and Mr T 
had explained  he had his card on him throughout the evening  and said he hadnt disclosed 
his PIN to anyone. They sent Mr T a text message on his phone asking him to confirm 
whether the transactions  were genuine  or not when  the first three  payments  were attempted, 
which someone had responded  Y to, to indicate they were genuine. They  also felt Mr Ts 
changing testimony reduced  his credibility. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the answer Barclays provided as he felt the disputed transactions  
should be written off, so he came  to our service.  Our investigator agreed that it was most  
likely that Mr T authorised the payments, so didnt recommend that Barclays do anything 
more. Mr T disagreed as he maintained he didnt authorise these  payments, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr T liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Having 
reviewed the Barclays  technical evidence Im satisfied  that Mr Ts genuine  credit  card and 
PIN were entered to authenticate these payments. But according to the relevant regulations, 
Ref: DRN54560692this alone is insufficient to enable  Barclays to hold him liable. So I need to consider whether I 
think the evidence  shows it is more likely than not that he consented  to the payments  being 
made. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its reasonable for Barclays to conclude  that Mr T 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The transactions were  made using Mr Ts genuine card, but Mr T had his card in his 
possession after the disputed transactions took place. Whilst I accept its possible, 
Im not persuaded its most likely  that an unknown  third party  took Mr Ts card at 
some point  prior to 2:38am and returned his card to him after the final transaction at 
5.00am without him noticing. If Mr T was unconscious or otherwise occupied,  
returning the card to him would possibly  alert him to the fact it had been taken which  
would be an unnecessary risk for an unknown third party  in possession of his card to 
take. 
The transactions required Mr Ts PIN code to be entered. The digital evidence  shows 
there were no incorrect PIN attempts so I think its reasonable to conclude  the person 
who completed these  transactions knew the PIN. As the last transaction  took place 
over a month prior to the disputed  transactions, I dont  think  it is likely that someone 
observed him entering his PIN somewhere else.  
Mr Ts testimony  did change in relation to his PIN  he originally told us it wasnt  
recorded anywhere but later told us it was on his phone. Mr T suggested that he was 
passing his phone around for people to take pictures with, which could  have provided  
them an opportunity to find his PIN. But it seems unlikely that someone would go 
through his phone  on the off chance they may find his PIN  and may somehow 
access his card. According  to his testimony he wasnt with his friends when he came 
to in the gentlemens club, which supports my conclusion that it was unlikely  these 
transactions were  completed by one of his friends.  
Mr T also suggested he was unconscious  when the transactions  took place. Whilst it 
could happen,  I think it is unlikely that an unknown  third party would use Mr Ts finger 
to unlock his phone  whilst he was unconscious and manage to find the PIN  stored  
on it in order to make these transactions. 
It also seems  unusual  that a third party, having  managed to gain Mr Ts card and PIN 
would make the four transactions over a two and a half hour period rather than 
maximising the use of the card as quickly as possible. An unknown  third party 
couldnt be sure when Mr T would notice  his card was missing  and report  it as such. 
Mr T provided  messages  exchanged  between participants of the stag party to this 
service. Some  of these messages implied that other participants of the stag do had 
spent similar  amounts  of money on nights  out during the trip. Whilst this isnt 
conclusive, it tells me that spending  these  kinds  of sums wouldnt be out of character 
with the stag party  participants. 
When Barclays text Mr Ts phone  to see whether the first three  attempted  
transactions were  genuine or not, someone  replied  with Y to indicate they were. 
Whilst someone else couldve done this with access to his phone, I dont think  this is 
most likely what  happened.  If an unknown third party had done this they would have 
had the phone to find the PIN, and instead of returning the phone  they would have 
had to keep it in order to reply  to the text message which they couldnt have known 
Barclays would send.  This again would  increase  the risk to them  of Mr T noticing 
something was wrong as it would have been  his phone  and card missing, not just his 
card. 
I do think its possible Mr T authorised payments, but didnt mean  to authorise 
payments of these  amounts. However, it would be Mr Ts responsibility to check  the 
Ref: DRN54560693amount on the terminal prior to entering  his PIN. With regard to the relevant 
regulations, it is enough  that he knew he was consenting to a payment even if he 
didnt know the amount  of that payment. 
Mr T also complained that Barclays shouldnt  have allowed transactions  to occur which 
exceeded his credit limit. In line with the terms and conditions  of the account, the 
responsibility would be on Mr T as the customer to not exceed  his credit limit. So I dont 
agree Barclays acted incorrectly in allowing these transactions to go through. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Im not asking Barclays  Bank  PLC 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5456069