K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1993 to protect a mortgage. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC (TSB at the time) 
mis-sold him the policy. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Lloyds throughout this decision rather  than TSB.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
And having done all of that, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Mr S says he felt pressured  into taking  PPI, didnt know it was optional and separate to the 
mortgage and didnt agree to take the policy. 
I dont doubt the honesty  of Mr Ss recollections.  However, he hasnt said much about  what 
was said and/or done at the time of sale. This isnt that surprising or unusual as the sale took 
place roughly 25 years ago. But the difficulties associated with the amount of time that has 
passed since the event in question are something  I have  to consider when weighing  up 
whats likely to have happened. After all, even the best of memories can struggle over that 
sort of timeframe. So, while  I accept its possible the recollections above represent  what  
actually happened, I find it hard to argue  in light of them alone   that its probable  as they 
carry with them very little else.
Lloyds has provided  us with Mr Ss mortgage  application form and mortgage offer. The 
application is difficult to decipher in places.  But there  is a section on PPI  or MortgageSure 
as it was called at the time. And from the activity  in that section, it does look like he chose to 
take the policy  details  of which were subsequently  set out separately to the mortgage on 
the mortgage offer.
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded theres enough  evidence to say Mr S didnt  agree  to 
take the policy or that he only agreed because he felt or thought  he had to.
This leaves  me with the rest of the sale to consider. Lloyds  says that it recommended the 
policy to Mr S  which means  it had to make sure the policy  was suitable for him given what  
it knew about his circumstances at the time.  And based on what I know,  I think  the policy 
was right for him overall.
It doesnt look like Mr S would have been affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits 
on the cover. I acknowledge  that he was entitled  to some sick pay and that he may have had 
some savings available.  But he was taking on a long-term and significant  financial 
commitment on a secured  basis. As a result, his mortgage repayments were important 
repayments to maintain  had he found  himself  out of or unable to work. And as the policy  
would have helped  him to make those repayments over a reasonably significant period of 
time instead of having to rely on his sick pay and/or savings (which he could have used 
elsewhere), I think he would have found the policy useful and did have a need for it.
Ref: DRN59158182As well as making a suitable recommendation, Lloyds also had to give Mr S clear 
information about the policy. So thats what Ive looked at next.
It is possible Mr S wasnt given the clear information  that he should have been. But as Ive 
already said, it looks like he could  have claimed  if he needed to. And given the nature of the 
financial commitment he was taking  on, the policy did provide important protection. So, for 
the same  reasons I dont think Lloyds recommendation  was unsuitable, I think he would  
have still bought the policy even  if he had been  provided with clear information.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915818