K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that when she called  on British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) under her 
home emergency insurance policy to repair her central heating boiler:
it wouldnt work on the boiler;
its engineer behaved  in an unprofessional  manner; and
BGI didnt give her a proper report on what was wrong with the boiler so she could  
decide what to do next.
background
Mrs S owned a property  which was rented  out to tenants. She took out a home emergency 
policy with BGI to cover the boiler and central heating system in the property.
In November 2017 the boiler stopped working,  and she called on BGI under her policy. BGIs 
engineer said he found that the cellar  where  the boiler was situated  was very wet. The boiler 
itself was wet on the outside, and when he removed the case he found the internals and 
electrics were wet, with water  dripping off the flue.
The engineer said that the boiler was a safety  risk in this state. So he wouldnt work on it and 
left it capped off. Mrs S arranged for the company  that installed the boiler to come and 
inspect it. The engineer it sent found the boiler  to be dry and said she should  get BGI to 
come and turn it on again. 
BGI sent a second engineer. He was of the same opinion as the first BGI engineer.  However 
Mrs S thought he was unprofessional in the way he went about the inspection. She also said 
he made disparaging remarks about  her in front of her tenant. Mrs S asked BGI for a more  
comprehensive report about the condition  of the boiler so she could decide  whether to 
replace and/or relocate  it, but this wasnt provided.
She complained to BGI about the way its engineers  had acted. BGI didnt accept her 
complaint. It said it thought its engineers  had acted appropriately in shutting off the boiler 
and refusing to work on it.
It didnt accept that the second BGI engineer  had spoken to Mrs S in an inappropriate 
manner. And it thought  its engineers  had provided sufficient information to Mrs S by leaving 
a work  report and verbally informing her tenant at the premises that they couldnt  work on 
the boiler because  of the wetness on and within  the boiler.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He noted that 
Mrs Ss own engineer found the boiler  to be dry when  he visited. But the investigator didnt 
think that was enough  for him to say BGIs two qualified engineers were wrong not to repair 
the boiler. Because of this, he couldnt  say Mrs S should be compensated for the cost of 
relocating and replacing her boiler   this might have been needed  anyway.
It was understandable  that Mrs S should want more information about why the boiler  had 
stopped working  and whether it could  be relocated and/or repaired. He said this wasnt BGIs 
responsibility under the policy. But he thought  BGI could have been clearer  in its 
communications with Mrs S.
Ref: DRN52130792On balance, he thought the second engineer had made comments  to Mrs S that were 
unprofessional, and inappropriate in front of Mrs Ss tenant. He accepted  this caused Mrs S 
distress and embarrassment. He recommended that BGI pay Mrs S £100 as compensation 
for its poor communication and its engineers  inappropriate remarks.
BGI accepted the investigators recommendation.  Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that 
she thought BGI should have provided  fuller information on whether the problem was the 
location of the boiler and/or a fault in the boiler itself.
The first BGI engineer  told Mrs S that the problem was the location, not the boiler  itself.     
Mrs S asked another company  to quote for the relocation of the boiler. She then heard that 
BGI told her tenant that the circuit  board had gone. She tried to find out from BGI if this was 
true, but couldnt get BGI to respond. 
Because the tenants had been without hot water and heating  for a week by then, she felt 
she couldnt delay  any longer. She replaced the boiler and relocated it. But in the absence  of 
information from BGI she didnt know if this had been entirely necessary. She thought that if 
BGI were condemning a boiler, it should have  provided a documented reason to support 
this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs Ss boiler stopped working  she called on BGI under  her policy  to repair  it. BGIs 
engineers said that because  of the wet condition of the boiler when they visited, they couldnt 
work on it and it was unsafe to use. Like the investigator, I cant  say BGI acted wrongly in 
refusing to work on the boiler.
I havent seen  anything in BGIs records to suggest its engineers investigated the boiler 
further to see what  was wrong with it, or that they identified  that the circuit board had failed. 
So it isnt clear that BGI had this information.
BGIs obligation under that policy was to attend  when called upon and repair the boiler.  It 
wasnt required to investigate and report on the condition of the boiler. It was sufficient  that it 
attended, and then explained why it was unable  to work on the boiler.  However I agree that 
BGI should have communicated  with Mrs S when she tried to find out what BGI knew  about  
the condition of her boiler.
Mrs S could have instructed another engineer, such as the installer who had already  been to 
the house, to advise  her on whether the boiler  could be salvaged and installed elsewhere.  
So I cant say BGI should be responsible for the cost of replacing and installing the new 
boiler.
The investigator recommended  that BGI should  pay Mrs S £100 as compensation for its 
failure to communicate  with Mrs S, and for its engineers inappropriate remarks. I think  this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and dont require BGI to do anything more.
Ref: DRN52130793my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mrs S compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213079