K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
alongside two Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) personal loans. 
background
Mrs W took out two loans through Halifax, the first in July 2002; the second in March 2003.   
PPI policies were taken out alongside these loans. Mrs W took out a single premium PPI 
policy with her 2002 loan. She took out a monthly  premium PPI policy with her 2003 loan. 
The policies covered Mrs W for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The policies wouldve 
covered her loan repayments for up to 12 months per successful unemployment claim and 
for the term of the each loan (5 years) for each successful accident  or sickness claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W didnt agree, so the complaint comes  to 
me to decide.
Mrs W said, in summary,  she was led to believe the policies werent  optional  and wouldve 
declined them if she had known.  She said she didnt need PPI because  of her work benefits. 
She also said she wasnt given enough  information  about PPI, particularly about the costs  
and benefits and wouldnt have taken the policy, if she had been.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
July 2002 sale 
Mrs W took out a single premium PPI policy alongside her £5,000 loan.  She took the 
policy out during  a meeting with Halifax. It cost her £992.42. She took the loan out to buy a 
used motor vehicle.
Mrs W was working  and said she was entitled to sick pay; six months at full pay and six 
months at half pay. 
March 2003 sale 
Mrs W took out a monthly premium PPI policy with her £10,000 loan, at a meeting with 
the bank. It cost her £16.60 per month, to cover  her loan repayments of 
£176.62 per month.  According to Halifaxs records, this loan was for debt consolidation.
Mrs Ws employment circumstances were largely  the same. 
was it made  clear that PPI was optional?
I cant know what was discussed at the two meetings Mrs W had with Halifax.  Mrs W says it 
wasnt made clear that the policies were optional  and she wouldnt have taken them  if told this.
Ref: DRN54783602As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. So, as well as taking into 
account what Mrs Ws said, Ive looked at the paperwork thats still available from the time of 
sales, to help me reach a decision.
Ive seen Mrs Ws loan application for the 2002  sale. Shes ticked the box to say that she 
wants PPI cover. Next to that box on the form, theres an equally prominent box Mrs W 
couldve selected if she didnt want PPI.  Bank  of Scotland no longer has a copy of Mrs Ws 
loan agreement. But, based  on what I have  seen, I think  it more likely that Mrs W opted to take 
out PPI, it having  been made  clear  to her she didnt have  to have it. 
Ive seen her loan application  and loan agreement for the 2003  sale.  On both of these 
documents, shes said she wants PPI. I think it wouldve  been  clear to her at the time that she 
didnt have to take the insurance and she chose to.
I can understand why she may not remember this now,  given how much time has passed.
were the policies suitable for Mrs Ws needs?
I think Halifax recommended these policies to Mrs W. So, both times  it made  a 
recommendation, it had to consider  whether the policy was suitable for her needs. Halifax  
also had to give Mrs W information that was clear,  fair and not misleading so that 
she could make an informed choice about  whether each policy was right for her and she 
wanted to buy it.
I think the policies  were suitable for Mrs W. Ill explain why.
Mrs W was eligible  to take out the policies, given her circumstances. 
The policies wouldve paid out on top of her work  benefits.  If she was unable  to 
work through  accident or sickness, and made a successful claim,  the policies 
wouldve paid out for up to five years, the term of the loans, considerably longer 
than her work benefits wouldve  covered  her for. So, I think PPI could still have  
been useful to her, to ensure that her loan repayments were made if she was out of 
work. I think  it wouldve been important to her that she didnt get into further debt, 
considering that her second loan was for debt consolidation.  The policies wouldve 
also paid out for up to 12 months,  on top of any redundancy benefit  she may get 
from her employer.
Mrs W didnt  seem to be affected  by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policies. So, I think it likely that she couldve benefitted from everything the policies 
offered. 
The policies appeared affordable. 
She paid a monthly amount  for the 2003 policy, which couldve been cancelled  at 
any time without her losing out financially. When Mrs W cancelled  her 2002 policy 
early, to take out the second loan, she wouldnt have  got a proportionate refund of 
the policy premium. So, I have gone  on to consider whether shes  unfairly lost out, 
because she needed the flexibility to end her policy early. But, I cant see that she 
has, because  theres  nothing  to suggest that at the time she knew the 2002 loan 
was likely to end early.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  Mrs W was given, or was likely to have been given, 
about the costs  of the policies. I can see from the 2003 credit  agreement that Mrs W was 
Ref: DRN54783603clearly told the cost of the policy. The 2002  credit  agreement is no longer available. Based 
on what we know from dealing with other  Halifax cases, I think it likely that the costs 
wouldve been set out in the loan agreement .So, I cant see that she has lost out here. 
For the reasons  explained, I think it likely  that Mrs W wouldve still decided  to take out these  
policies even if shed  been given clearer information.  I say this because  she opted  to take 
out the insurance, it was clear that she had to pay something for it, and the cost appeared 
affordable, and the policies were suitable  in her circumstances.
So, I cant see that Mrs Ws lost out because of what Halifax couldve done  better. I dont 
think Halifax mis- sold the PPI policies or treated Mrs W unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5478360