K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained about the way in which Barclays  Bank UK Plc has dealt with 
their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages. Mr I has dealt with the complaint throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs I have a number of BTL mortgages  with Barclays. In recent  years  they have 
been dissatisfied with the way Barclays has dealt with these, and have brought  their 
complaints to us. 
Complaints about  arrears and term extensions have been the subject of complaints to us, 
resulting in offers of compensation  from Barclays, which  Mr and Mrs I have accepted in 
settlement of those  complaints. Mr and Mrs I have also raised a new issue  around a 
redemption figure, which  is the subject of a new complaint.
Where an offer of settlement has been  accepted, I will not be revisiting those issues  in this 
decision. Nor will I be considering the issues that are covered in the new complaint.
In relation to this complaint, the only outstanding issue which has not been subject to an 
accepted offer of settlement is whether or not Barclays is responsible for the cost of repairs 
and loss of rent on one of Mr and Mrs Is properties  (which I will call 25CS)  between  
November 2017  and May 2018. 
Briefly, in September 2017 Barclays appointed Receivers over 25CS. Barclays  took the 
property into possession  on 20 November 2017 (which is when the tenant moved out) and 
the Receivers appointment was cancelled  on 30 November 2017. The keys were  not 
returned to Mr I until May 2018.
The crux of the complaint is as follows:
Mr I says he has lost six months rent at £525  per month  because  he was unable to 
regain possession of the property;
between November 2017 and May 2018 Barclays  failed to inspect or maintain the 
property. As a result, the condition  of the property deteriorated. His insurers have 
confirmed he is uninsured for his losses so he wants Barclays  to cover  the cost of repairs 
and the loss of rent.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that Barclays was responsible  
for the condition of the property. Thats because there was evidence  that the property 
needed repairs before  Barclays had taken  possession of it. But he did think  that Barclays 
should have returned the keys sooner. He asked Barclays  to pay half the rent Mr I could 
have earned between November and May 2018.
Neither Barclays nor Mr I were happy with this. Barclays says the condition  of the property 
would have prevented it from being  rented out. Mr I disputes this and says his letting agent 
has confirmed the property was in a lettable  condition. 
As both parties disagree with the investigators  findings, it falls to me to issue a decision on 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN53749772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken note of everything  Mr I and 
Barclays have said.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,300 pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything and listened  to all the recordings of phone calls on file, and its apparent that 
some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case  than others. There  are 
also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I will start by explaining  that we are an informal service set up to resolve disputes between  
consumers and financial businesses. We are not a court, and our informal  procedures reflect 
this.  An  ombudsmans  decision, if accepted, becomes legally binding  on the consumer and 
the business. But if the consumer decides  not to accept our ruling,  then they are free to take 
the matter to court if they wish to do so. Furthermore, we dont take instructions either from 
consumers or the businesses they are complaining about in relation to the way we carry out 
our investigations  or the scope of our enquiries; were we to do so, it would compromise  our 
independence and impartiality. 
I am explaining this because  I can see that Mr I has questioned our expertise to determine 
what he says is a building dispute  over the cause of damage to his property. We are not, of 
course, building experts.  But it was the choice of Mr and Mrs I to ask us to look at this 
complaint, and so that is what we have done within the scope of our own expertise  and the 
parameters of our rules. I reiterate that if Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with my decision, they 
arent under any obligation to accept it if they decide  theyd rather  go to court  instead.
The issue  in this case is relatively simple:  it is whether  or not Barclays  is liable for the cost 
of repairs and loss of rent for the period November 2017 to May 2018.
I will summarise  what  Mr I has told us. Mr I has provided photographs which he says shows 
the damage when  he regained possession of the property in May 2018. Hes provided  a 
letters from his letting  agent saying that the local council has never stated that the property 
was uninhabitable or that remedial works were needed. The letting agents also say that 
there were no hazardous  conditions preventing the property from being let.
Mr I says that the council  states there  was no visible moisture  to the ceiling. This is in a letter  
from the council  to Mr I, which is undated. The letter explains that the tenants called the 
council in August  2017 (while the property was still under the control  of Mr I) reporting  a leak 
to the ceiling in the rear bedroom. The letting  agents  were  contacted,  who confirmed they 
would deal with it as a matter of priority. The tenant refused to allow the council  to carry out 
any further inspection.  The tenant  was rehoused in November 2017.
Ref: DRN53749773Mr I also says that photographs taken by the Receivers in November 2017 show  no 
evidence of any water damage. 
Mr I said that damage had occurred to the roof, as well as the boiler, whilst the property was 
in Barclays possession. Mr I says that there were two areas of damage. One was on the first 
floor where significant damage was caused to the ceiling, as a result of a split in the lead 
valley on the roof. At ground  floor level, Mr I says that the damage was caused by a burst  
central heating pipe in the middle bedroom, which leaked down onto the ground  floor.  This 
was identified when  his plumber re-filled the system  after Mr I got the property back.
On the other hand, Barclays doesnt think its responsible for the condition of the property. 
The bank has provided a letter from the council  to Mr I dated 30 April 2017 enclosing a 
Schedule of Works which the council wanted Mr I to carry out by 29 June 2017. This was an 
informal notice, but the council explained  that failure to comply  could result in enforcement 
action. There is reference in that notice  to staining  on a bedroom ceiling and a loose 
radiator.
Barclays also provided confirmation from the Receivers that the heating  system in the 
property was drained down at the time they were appointed in September  2017. Barclays  
acknowledged that it hadnt  inspected  the property between November 2017 and May 2018.
Where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory,  I have to decide what  I think is likely to 
have happened, based on the available evidence and the balance  of probabilities.
Some of the evidence is both inconclusive and contradictory. On the one hand,  the council 
reports staining to the ceiling in the rear bedroom  in its Schedule of Works dated June 2017. 
It appears that in August 2017 this still hadnt  been  remedied, according to the council. So it 
seems that this leak (which Mr I now attributes to a crack in the lead valley on the roof) 
pre-dated any involvement in 25CS by Barclays or the Receivers.
I also note that in November 2017  the Receivers confirmed that the heating  system was 
drained down,  which  is what I would expect when a property becomes vacant. Mr Is 
plumber reported  a leak from a pipe when  he re-filled the system in June  2018.  In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that the system had been drained  down, because  this is 
confirmed by the evidence that it had to be re-filled.
Overall, Im not persuaded, on the basis of the available evidence,  that there was a burst  
pipe between November  2017 and May 2018, because the evidence is persuasive  that the 
system had been  drained down between those dates.
The letting agents had no involvement  in the property after August 2017, so I have  placed  
limited weight on their evidence that the property was in a lettable condition  after September 
2017, given the Schedule of Works  from the council and the report of a leak in August 2017.
So overall, Im not persuaded by the evidence that Barclays  is responsible  for the cause of 
the damage to the property. But I note that Barclays carried out no inspection  of the property 
at all for six months, between November  2017 and May 2018. Its excuse for this is that Mr I 
had made  a complaint, and so it couldnt  pass the property to its asset managers. 
I dont think thats  an acceptable reason for failing to inspect the property.  Barclays should 
have returned  the property to Mr I in November 2017, and the bank has acknowledged  this. I 
think that if Barclays had inspected the property  it would  have  had the opportunity to identify 
Ref: DRN53749774any problems that needed to be rectified  or, at the very least, contained  so they didnt  get 
any worse. 
But the evidence  is persuasive that the issues giving rise to the damage are more likely than 
not to have existed when  the property was still in Mr Is control   as per the Schedule of 
Works from the council and the councils confirmation that there was a leak in August 2017.  
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to order Barclays to pay for the cost of the 
repairs.
Im also satisfied that, notwithstanding any delay  on the part of Barclays in handing back the 
property, Mr I would have  needed to carry out substantial  refurbishment to the property in 
any event, as per the Schedule of Works.  So Im not persuaded Barclays should 
compensate him for six months  loss of rent. I agree with the investigator that it would be fair 
for Barclays to compensate Mr and Mrs I for three months loss of rent at £525 per month,  a 
total of £1,575.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr I wanted. As I said above, we are an informal  service, 
and base our decisions  on the available evidence.  Whilst I appreciate Mr I feels very strongly 
about this matter, I have  been able to review  the matter with a degree of objectivity that the 
parties to the complaint might  not necessarily have.  After doing so, Im satisfied, for the 
reasons given above, that a 50% refund of rent for the period November 2017 to May 2018 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays  Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs I £1,575  in full and final settlement of this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
This final decision concludes our consideration of this complaint. This means that I will be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  the merits of the complaint.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5374977