K820x#14complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf  of Mr S and his late wife, Mrs S. I am sorry to 
hear that Mrs S died in 2013. 
The complaint is that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
When the PPI was sold, Lloyds was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester. Lloyds is 
responsible for answering this complaint. So to keep things straightforward,  Ill refer to 
Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the policy in a Lloyds branch.  The mortgage was redeemed in 2007. 
Given the time that has passed since the cover was sold, Lloyds isnt able to say who was 
covered by the policy. But Mr S told us that both he and Mrs S were covered by the PPI. So 
Ive proceeded  on that basis. I can see that the policy cost £13 per month  and would have 
covered their share  of the mortgage for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs S were  off work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment, subject to its exclusions and limitations.
At the time,  Mr S was as a road worker. He told us he was entitled to less than three months  
pay if he was off sick from work  and that he didnt have any other means of meeting his 
mortgage payments  if he couldnt work  or if he lost his job.   Mr S told us about some  
medical conditions  that were diagnosed  after the policy was sold.  I havent been  made  
aware of any conditions Mr S may have had at the point of the sale.  
Its not entirely clear  to me what Mrs Ss job was at the time the cover was sold.  It was stated 
in the PPI questionnaire  that she worked  as a care assistant, but the mortgage application 
form suggested she worked as a cleaner  for a local authority. I  think its most  likely she 
worked as a cleaner. On that basis, I think she would have been entitled to some sick pay 
but I dont think  it would have lasted for as long as the PPI. I understand that Mrs S didnt 
have any other means of making payments towards  the mortgage  if she wasnt working.  I 
also understand that she was in good health at the time when the policy  was sold.  
Lloyds sent us screenshots to show the mortgage  was closed in 2007. 
Those representing Mr and Mrs S made lengthy and substantial representations. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, the 
representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN56642892The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Our adjudicators opinion  wasnt accepted for several 
reasons. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken it into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN56642893There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering this complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN56642894-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S would 
have suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by the parties, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
It wasnt specifically argued  that Mr and Mrs S were told they didnt have a choice about  the 
PPI policy. However, I do note that those representing them said PPI was presented as part 
of their mortgage package. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs S completed.  The 
PPI application  was separate, and I think if it was presented as part of the mortgage,  Mr and 
Mrs S would have queried why they had to apply for it separately.  PPI is not mentioned  on 
the mortgage offer and again,  if it had been presented  as part of the mortgage,  I think  Mr 
and Mrs S would  have queried  why it wasnt stated as a mortgage condition.  The evidence  
doesnt suggest they did. 
I think its more likely that the conversation they had with the person selling PPI probably 
reflects what  is written on the mortgage offer. And as PPI isnt presented as necessary on 
that document, I dont think it would have been  presented as such at the point of sale. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs S agree that advice was provided during this sale.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. They havent  really commented on what happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Mr 
and Mrs Ss financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence  to show the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs S would have been  caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet their needs. 
Ref: DRN56642895For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Mr and Mrs S had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if one 
or both of them was not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for 
the redundancy benefits and sick pay they say they would have been entitled  to. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ss employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult to claim. And they havent  told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  their ability to claim. I can see Mr S was 
diagnosed with some  conditions  some  years after the PPI was sold,  so I dont think 
they could have affected the PPI decision at the point of sale.  There  were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN56642896Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
S. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Those representing Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN56642897Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cant say Lloyds told them the exact premium at the point Mr and 
Mrs S applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
For the first 24 months,  the policy excluded claims relating to any condition,  injury, 
illness, disease or sickness which Mr and Mrs S knew about or ought  to have known 
about before  the start date of the policy, or for which  they had seen or arranged  to 
see a doctor or for which they had received treatment from a doctor in the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to do their own job, a similar gainful occupation that they may become 
qualified for in view of their experience, education or training.  
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
Ref: DRN56642898some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  They were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  they didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I still think  they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs S were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs S would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN56642899That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
It was argued that the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would not have  
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position he and his late wife would 
have been in if they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware it was argued  that Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr S in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN566428910my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  on behalf of himself  and Mrs S before  25 April 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5664289