K820x#14complaint
Mr M is being  represented by his sister,  Ms M, in bringing his complaint.  
Mr M says that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a protection  policy  in 2010. He says the 
adviser told him that the policy would provide him income if he was off sick from work. 
However, the insurer says Mr Ms policy does  not include any form of income protection 
benefits.  
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr M wants Lloyds  to pay him the monthly benefit he should  be 
receiving whilst he is off sick and unable  to work.    
background
Mr M met with an adviser in August 2010 to take out mortgage lending. Alongside his 
lending, the adviser  recommended  Mr M take out a life and critical illness policy.   
The policy began on 1 September 2010. It comprised life assurance  with terminal illness 
benefit and critical illness  cover.  The policy also had additional  premium  protection benefit  
(PPB), where the insurer would waive the need  for Mr M to maintain the policy premiums if 
he was off work due to accident or illness. The PPB had a deferred period of 26 weeks.   
The policy was set up on a decreasing  term basis for a 16-year term, with an initial  sum 
assured of £120,000 to match Mr Ms capital repayment mortgage. 
In 2018, Mr M made a claim to the insurer as he had been  diagnosed with a type of heart  
disease along with other  disabling conditions of his spine and prostate. These have left him 
unable to work since April 2018. Mr M says he is now struggling to meet his mortgage  
repayments.  
The insurer  accepted a claim for PPB on 29 October  2018,  which  it backdated to 4 August 
2018  26 weeks  after Mr M had ceased working  due to illness.  It also paid a one-off 
additional payment of £150 for Mr M to use towards  rehabilitation or expenses as required. 
However, it was not able to consider a claim for income protection as Mr Ms policy  was a life 
and critical illness insurance  policy.     
So, Mr M complained to Lloyds. He said that as a self-employed person, he had been told 
that the policy would pay out if he fell ill and was unable to pay his mortgage or in the 
scenario where  he could  no longer  work again.  
Lloyds issued a final response to the complaint in April 2019. It said there was nothing  in any 
of the documentation from the time of the sale to suggest that Mr Ms policy  would provide 
sick pay or payment  protection for his mortgage.    
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint  here, with the help of Ms M. Ms M 
further explained that Mr M had also obtained a quote for a protection  policy  from Nationwide 
at the time, but chose to proceed with Lloyds because he was assured it covered every  type 
of protection need if he were to fall ill or have  to take time off work.    
An investigator considered this complaint and he didnt think  it should succeed. He believed 
that Lloyds adviser  had made an appropriate recommendation to Mr M. And regarding his 
Ref: DRN57720572specific concerns about the cover provided by the policy, he didnt agree that the adviser  had 
misled Mr M. The policy was clear as to the type of benefits it contained. And the investigator 
also said he couldnt find any evidence which would  show that Mr M had requested a policy 
that would  give him income if he became unwell.
Lloyds accepted the investigators findings. Ms M said Mr M did not agree with the outcome. 
In summary,  she said:
Mr M had been expressly  told that he was being  sold a policy  that would cover him 
for all eventualities;
it is for that reason Mr M did not check the policy documents  or the annual 
information he received since 2010,  as he simply had no reason to do so;
Mr M had shopped around  elsewhere  but went with Lloyds because  of the 
comprehensive nature  of the cover.  
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to learn of Mr Ms circumstances since he has been unwell, and I send him my best 
wishes. Despite my sympathy for his circumstances, I cannot  uphold this complaint for the 
same reasons put forward by our investigator. Ill explain why Ive reached that decision in 
my findings  below.  
At the time of the sale, Mr M completed  a form to say he didnt hold any life insurance or 
critical illness insurance. Given Mr Ms mortgage lending, I believe it was a sensible proposal 
that he take out life insurance  and critical illness insurance. In the event of valid claims 
should Mr M fall seriously ill or pass away during the policy  term, a lump sum payment 
broadly equivalent to the outstanding mortgage  would be made to his beneficiaries or his 
estate. 
I realise Ms M says that Mr M was told that the policy would provide a form of income 
protection benefit in the event Mr M was unable to work.  I have no reason to dispute  Mr Ms 
recollection. However, whilst this evidence is something I take into account,  I must also 
weigh up Lloyds version of events, and any other  evidence such  as contemporaneous  
documentation from the time of the sale. Where  there is conflicting evidence,  I have  
concluded what I believe is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
Unfortunately, because of the passage of time, Lloyds has not retained any fact find or 
suitability information  recorded by the adviser.  Nor is there any recollection of what was said 
between the adviser  and Mr M.  
Ive no doubt that Mr M chose his policy with Lloyds based on believing  the cover  was the 
most comprehensive open to him. There is an internal email from the time of the advice 
which supports that Mr M did seek a quote  with Nationwide  for a premium £20 lower per 
month than Lloyds offer. However,  it was said he disregarded it because it was not as good 
cover as ours.  
Ref: DRN57720573I have not seen any clear  suggestion that Mr M had sought income protection cover.  
Nonetheless, even  if I were to accept  that Mr M left his meeting with the adviser believing he 
was going to take out life cover, critical illness cover  and income protection  or payment  
protection cover in one all-encompassing policy, that is not what the documentation  says.  
The insurer  sent Mr M policy provisions  on 1 September 2010, along  with a letter entitled 
Your Right  to Change  Your Mind. It was incumbent on Mr M to read the policy  
documentation and he was expressly invited  to return  the letter if he had changed his mind.   
The documentation  was headed Critical Illness with Life Cover . It went  on to set out the 
important information you need to read along with a Key Features document,  which said:
These Key Features should be read with the enclosed quotation. 
Its [the policys] aims:
To pay out a cash sum if, during the benefit  term,
- you die,
- you are diagnosed with a terminal illness, or
- you are diagnosed with a critical illness that meets our policy  definitions.  We only 
cover the critical  illnesses we define  in our policy provisions. The cash sum ("benefit 
amount") can be level,  increasing  or decreasing over the benefit  term.  
In addition, because  Mr Ms policy had a decreasing sum assured (one which reduces year 
on year broadly in line with his mortgage repayments), he was sent annual summaries of the 
policy and the cover it offered each October. These said:
This is your Protection for Life Annual  Plan Summary.  
It has some  really important information  that you might want  to share  and discuss  
with the people that are close to you. The information in here is up to date so if you 
received one of these  last year you dont need  to keep that copy.
Whats inside:
oA summary of the protection you have: 
Critical Illness with Life Cover 
I realise Mr M says he had been told that the policy would  pay out if he fell ill and was unable 
to pay his mortgage or in the scenario where  he could no longer work again. I expect that 
was what happened   but there has been some  misunderstanding about  how claims can be 
made for these differing  types of cover. It is true that the policy would provide cover if Mr M 
could no longer work or if he became seriously ill  but that must be because he suffers  from 
or is diagnosed with one of the various  conditions listed as critical illnesses  within the 
policy. 
Income protection is a generalised policy, where  if a person if unable  to work or perform  
certain activities for more  than a certain  deferred period (such as twenty-six weeks). Benefit  
under these types of policies replace lost income of a policyholder.     
Similarly, payment protection insurance  (PPI)  is cover for a debt or liability, such  as a 
mortgage where a policyholder cannot meet  their debt for a defined reason, such  as due to 
sickness. Benefit under  PPI policies will be a payment equivalent  to the debt repayment.   
There is simply no mention of income protection or PPI in the policy documents.  
Ref: DRN57720574I believe the documentation is clear, and that Mr M has unfortunately misunderstood the 
nature of the cover sold to him. That is entirely understandable when there  are several  
different types  of insurance that one can take out for personal protection.  I appreciate  why 
Ms M says Mr M chose  not to read the documentation, but it is my view that he should have 
done so  the letters he received made clear how it was very important to read and 
understand the policy information.  
Mr M says he wants the resolution of this complaint to be that Lloyds pays  his mortgage for 
the period he has been off sick (and continues to be so) because thats what  he would be 
receiving if he had taken  out an income protection policy. But the documentation  sent from 
the insurer was clear about what  cover he took out. That is life assurance and critical illness 
assurance with a small additional  benefit of PPB.  
While its incredibly unfortunate that Mr M hasnt looked at his policy until he fell ill, I do not 
believe that is the fault of Lloyds adviser. I see no reason why it would not have helped  Mr 
M apply for additional  policies if he wanted  them. As it is, even if Mr M did express such  a 
requirement, he should have reviewed what he had purchased to ensure his needs had 
been met. 
It follows that I cannot ask Lloyds  to pay a sum equivalent to a claim for income protection  or 
mortgage protection benefit that Mr M might have had now,  if he had taken out a policy or 
policies of that nature. If Mr M had reviewed  the information sent to him from the time of the 
sale or thereafter, hed have been aware  that he did not hold any income  or payment 
protection policies.  
my final decision
I know my decision wont  be what Mr M has hoped for. However, Ive no reason to conclude  
Lloyds has behaved  unfairly or unreasonably in advising Mr M to take out life and critical 
illness cover.  Nor have  I seen any clear evidence that Mr M took out income or payment 
protection policies  such  that Lloyds would be responsible for Mr Ms missed opportunity to 
claim on any policy now. I am therefore  unable to uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.   
Jo Storey
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5772057