K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading  as Sunny)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eleven high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided  to Mr W 
from September 2017 onwards. Mr Ws last loan was provided in April 2018.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and thought that he shouldnt  have been provided 
with loans five to eleven. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W, I think  that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make  his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan five to him. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr W had a history of taking out further  loans not too long 
after repaying previous  ones.  And some of them were even provided when Mr W already 
had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Im not persuaded that the loan repayments 
being less than 10% of Mr Ws income,  the amount being borrowed not increasing  from loan 
Ref: DRN57132542seven or the fact that Mr W didnt say that he was having financial difficulty  means that these 
loans were sustainable.
Sunny continued  lending  to Mr W even when  this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr W had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loan five to eleven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loans  five should  be removed from Mr Ws credit file;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans to six 
to eleven on Mr Ws credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these  loans 
should be removed  from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr W compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5713254