K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) as he is unhappy with the valuation 
it has placed on his car following a claim  on his motor  insurance  policy. Hes also unhappy 
that he wasnt provided a courtesy car for a longer period of time.
background
In January 2019 Mr R made a claim to his motor insurer UKI following a road traffic accident.  
An engineer  decided that due to the damage  Mr Rs car wasnt economical to repair,  so it 
was deemed to be a total loss. UKI gave Mr R a market value for his car of £6,950 minus the 
policy excess which was £50. UKI had used one of the motor trade guides when placing a 
value on the car. This trade guide  said the market value was £7,100. But due to there  being  
pre-accident damage  (a cracked windscreen) which equated to £300,  it deduced £150  (50%  
of the total damage) from the trade guides quote. 
Mr R was unhappy with this offer. He said his car was worth between  £7,500  and £9,500. He 
feels UKI hasnt taken into consideration the modification and additional extras  which his car 
had.  
UKI provided  Mr R with a courtesy car while the claim was being  looked into. Mr R has said 
he received an email from UKI to tell him a cheque had been issued on 29 January. The 
email also said the courtesy car would be collected  on 5 February.  Mr R was concerned 
about this, as he needed a car for his line of work and he didnt think  this would give him 
enough time to purchase another car. 
On 1 February 2019 Mr R contacted UKI as he hadnt received the cheque  and explained his 
situation. During that call he was advised that the courtesy car would actually be collected on 
7th February and the cheque had been  issued on 28 January. Mr R disputed  this as it 
contradicted what he was told in an email  from UKI. Because of this, Mr R contacted  UKI 
again. During that call he was told the information  the previous advisor had told him was 
incorrect and the courtesy  car would be collected  on 5 February.
Mr R was extremely frustrated as he had provided  his bank details in order  for UKI to 
transfer the funds.  But UKI issued a cheque, which caused a delay in him being able to 
access the funds  and as a result  left him without a car. 
UKI looked into Mr Rs concerns but it said it had placed the correct market  value  on Mr Rs 
car and acted fairly in deducting  the pre-accident damage. It went on to say that it couldnt  
complete a BACs  payment as Mr Rs details didnt  fully validate. So it was unable  to transfer 
the full amount owed. And it had acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the account in 
collecting the courtesy car seven days after the payment  had been  made.
Mr R remained  unhappy. He felt UKI should  change its policy relating to courtesy cars. He 
says if UKI chooses to send a cheque instead of BACS payment he thinks  the courtesy car 
shouldnt be collected  until a consumer has had chance to cash  the cheque  and the funds 
have cleared. He also wanted UKI to offer an additional  £1,000  for the value of his car as he 
thinks it was worth more. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs concerns, but he didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. To summarise he said he wasnt able to ask UKI to change  its processes in relation 
to when it issues cheques  and how long it provides courtesy cars for. He explained that he 
felt UKI had offered the market value for the car after checking several motor trade guides, 
Ref: DRN56973352which was in line with the terms of the policy. And while he agreed  UKI did provide Mr R with 
incorrect information in relation to when the hire car would be collected, he felt the offer of 
£50 was fair and reasonable.  Mr R still remained unhappy so he asked for his case to be 
passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Its not our role to decide a valuation. Our role is to look at whether an insurer  has reached 
the valuation of a car in a reasonable way. And in doing  so we pay particular attention  to the 
various trade  guides used for valuing  cars. We think these guides  let us see the fair value of 
a car as theyre  based  on actual sales prices  rather than advertised prices, which are usually 
inflated for negotiation purposes. The value they give is an average and takes into account 
cars selling at higher and lower prices.
Mr Rs policy  says:
If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing  your vehicle up to its UK 
market value. This is the current  value of the vehicle at the time of the claim  and it may be 
different to the amount  you paid or any amounts we spoke about when you insured your 
vehicle with us.
And under the policy terms market value is defined  as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make  and model and of a similar 
age and condition  at the time of the accident or loss.
So while I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy with the valuation UKI has provided, Im satisfied 
it has acted in line with the terms of the policy. UKI did however only use one motor trade 
guide, which gave  a quote of £7,100.  But having checked the other trade guides,  which  gave 
quotes of £6,650, £6,817 and £7,216, Im satisfied that UKI would have arrived  at the quote  
if it had checked  the other trade  guides.  I say this because, the average of all four quotes is 
slightly below what UKI offered. And I think this is reasonable.
Ive also considered the pre-accident damage UKI has taken  into consideration when 
providing a quote.  Mr R was aware  there  was pre-accident damage which hadnt been fixed 
since the advisory in his previous MOT.  UKI deducted 50% (of the total amount it would cost 
to fix the pre-accident damage) from the valuation in recognition of this. And I dont think this 
is unreasonable as Mr R would have had to pay more than this to rectify the problem.
I understand Mr R is unhappy  that he hadnt had time to purchase  a new car before the hire 
car was collected. And I acknowledge that it would have been more  convenient  if he had 
received the payment by BACS. But as UKI have explained this wasnt possible  as Mr Rs 
details couldnt  be validated. Because of this UKI sent a cheque.  Ive reviewed  the terms and 
conditions of the account, which say:
If your car is not repairable  (written off) or stolen and not recovered, we will provide you with 
a hire car for:
Ref: DRN56973353Up to seven days  after the first or only payment has been issued to you in settlement of your 
claim 
So with that in mind I cant reasonably say UKI acted unfairly by collecting the car seven 
days after it issued the payment. I say this because it acted in line with the terms of the 
policy so I think it is likely  Mr R would or should  have been  aware  of this.
Having reviewed the contact notes UKI did provide Mr R with conflicting information.  But 
while I appreciate  this would have been  frustrating for Mr R, Ive considered  the impact this 
would have had on him. Having done  so, I think the offer UKI has made is fair. I say this 
because as the policy clearly outlines  that the courtesy car would be collected  seven days 
after payment  is made which would have  been 5 February. As Mr R has said himself, after 
receiving the conflicting  information (that the car would  be collected on 7 February)  he 
contacted UKI for further clarity, as he didnt  think the information he received was accurate. 
After doing this he was told the original date he was given (5 February)  was correct. So while  
Mr R was inconvenienced and had to contact  UKI to confirm  the date, I am satisfied £50 is in 
line with what I would  have recommended.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jade Rowe  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697335