K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has unfairly declined  a claim he made for storm 
damage under his home insurance  policy. 
Mr C is being represented in bringing  this complaint,  but for ease Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr C.
background
In early 2018 there was a storm in the area of Mr Cs property. The property was coastal and 
following a storm the land at the rear of the property fell away, leaving his property 
overhanging the cliff. The property had to be demolished. Lloyds said the claim wouldnt be 
covered, as the policy excluded damage  caused  by coastal erosion. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds. He said it was the storm that had caused the damage and this 
was covered under the policy. So the claim should  be paid. He said he wasnt  aware  of any 
issues when he purchased the property.  And the property was far enough away  from the cliff 
that he didnt expect it to erode for a number of years. 
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  needed  to cover  the claim. He was satisfied Lloyds 
could rely on the coastal  erosion exclusion to decline the claim. Mr C didnt agree, he said 
coastal erosion doesnt happen that quickly and what  happened was exceptional. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
Lloyds accepts there was a storm around  the time of the claim.  So on the face of it a claim 
would succeed  under this section, unless Lloyds can show it can rely on an exclusion to 
decline the claim.
Under the storm section  of the policy, it says the insurer  will not pay for loss or damage  
caused by landslip.  Given the land behind  Mr Cs property fell away,  Im satisfied this would 
be classed as a landslip  under the policy. So this means it isnt covered under the storm 
damage section. 
The policy says landslip is covered under a different section, with its own exclusions. The 
landslip section of the policy says:
5. The buildings  are insured against loss or damage caused by: subsidence or 
heave on which the buildings stand or landslip.
 Your insurer will not pay for loss or damage:
v)caused by river or coastal erosion
Ref: DRN54876302Ive thought about what this means for Mr Cs case.  There is no definition  of coastal erosion 
under the policy.  Where  a term isnt defined we would consider what the term is commonly 
understood to mean. I think the following definition  would  be reasonable: loss or 
displacement of land along the coastline due to actions of waves, current, tide and wind.
Ive considered what the cause of the damage  to Mr Cs property was. And based  on what  
Ive seen I dont  think Mr Cs property  was damaged as a result of the storm. The house 
needed to be demolished  because the coast had eroded and his property  was overhanging 
the cliff. I havent seen  anything  that suggests  there  was damage  to the property caused by 
the storm. 
Coastal erosion is excluded under the landslip  section. So it isnt a risk Lloyds was willing  
to cover.  Ive considered if its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on this term. In this 
instance I think it is. Mr C has said the erosion wasnt  at a normal  level,  in that so much of 
the coast fell away  in one day that it shouldnt be classed as coastal erosion. But the policy 
doesnt differentiate  between  types or severity of coastal erosion; it says damage caused  by 
coastal erosion wont be covered. As I think  the damage was caused by coastal erosion I 
think its reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.  
I appreciate the difficult situation Mr C has been  left in; there was no survey carried  out on 
the property before its purchase and he said he was unaware of the previous history of 
coastal erosion in that area.  And Mr C has said this exclusion wasnt  brought to his attention 
when he bought the policy.
Lloyds didnt give advice  to Mr C when he bought the insurance, so it didnt  need  to make 
sure the insurance  was suitable for his needs. But it did need to provide  information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading to enable Mr C to decide if the policy was right for him. I cant 
see that the coastal  erosion exclusion was highlighted  to Mr C. But like our investigator  I 
dont think this is an unusual or significant exclusion,  so it didnt need to highlight  this to     
Mr C. Im satisfied the documents are clear  that coastal erosion is excluded, so it wasnt 
required to do anything  more to bring this to Mr Cs attention. 
 
I realise this outcome will disappoint  Mr C but I find Lloyds is entitled  to rely on the exclusion 
in relation to this claim.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5487630