K821x#15complaint
Miss A says Chase de Vere  Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase de Vere)  mis-
sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2001. 
Miss A applied for the PPI online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Chase de Vere disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint because I dont think Chase de Vere gave her 
clear enough  information  about  the policy. I say this because the policy  wouldnt pay 
disability benefit  for medical conditions that the customer knew about when the policy  
started. I think this would have mattered to Miss A because shes  told us she had a long-
term medical condition  which  wouldnt have been covered. So Miss A couldnt  have claimed  
on the policy for everything she expected  to be covered.
I dont think Miss A would  have bought  the PPI if shed had enough  information  about the 
policy. So, I think Miss A has lost out because of what  the business did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Chase de Veres comments,  including what its said about the 
circumstances in which Miss A bought the policy, and the information  she was given. 
I accept that the exclusion  that affected  Miss A was set out in the policy  terms. But I havent 
been able to safely conclude that those terms were available for Miss A to review  during the 
application process. And even if they were,  I note that the exclusion  didnt  appear  until part 
way through the document, which was closely worded and in relatively small  print. So I dont  
think the exclusion wouldve been  immediately obvious to Miss A. 
Chase de Vere says that when the policy was issued, Miss A wouldve been  given a plan 
booklet explaining the features and terms of the policy.  But it seems she wouldnt have 
received this until after shed agreed  to buy the PPI. So I still dont think  she couldve made 
an informed decision about  whether  to proceed  with the PPI at the point of sale.  
Overall, I still think I should uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN59192412what Chase de Vere  should do to put things right
Chase de Vere should put Miss A in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Chase de Vere  
should:
Pay Miss A the amount she paid each  month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Chase  de Vere  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Chase de Vere to take off tax from this interest. Chase 
de Vere must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Chase  de Vere  Independent  Financial 
Advisers Limited to pay compensation to Miss A in line with the instructions  above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5919241