K821x#15complaint
Mrs T says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ts Egg credit card account when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Canada Square disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs T applied for the credit card and PPI online. I think its unlikely that she had any 
direct contact  with Canada Squares  staff about the application.  So I think its unlikely 
that Canada Square  recommended the PPI to Mrs T. This means it didnt need to check  
that the PPI was suitable for her. But it did have a responsibility to give Mrs T clear 
enough information to enable her to make an informed decision about  whether the policy 
was right for her.
Ive looked  at the screen shots Canada Squares provided to show what Mrs T would 
have seen during  the application  process. And Im not satisfied that the information it 
gave Mrs T about the cost and benefit of the policy was as clear  as it should have been.
The cost of 74p per £100 of monthly statement balance is shown. But it doesnt show the 
policys benefit. Mrs T would have had to click a link to Benefits of taking out repayment 
protection to see more details. I dont know whether Mrs T clicked  on the link. There 
was no requirement  to do so before agreeing to take out the PPI. And even if she did, 
I dont think it was clear that if shed  made  a successful claim, shed have had to carry on 
paying her monthly PPI premiums,  or that the premiums would be added  to her credit  
card balance  and could attract interest.
Mrs Ts told us that shed have been  entitled  to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. And she says she 
had savings worth at least six months  of her pay. I have no reason  to doubt what Mrs Ts 
told us.
Taking into account what Mrs Ts told us about  her existing means  at the time of sale,  Im 
not convinced  that shed have  thought  the policy was good value for her if shed  been  
made aware of the full cost and benefits  of the policy. 
I think Mrs T has lost out as a result  of Canada Squares failings in this case, because I dont 
think she would have  taken out the policy if shed been properly informed.
Ref: DRN56298262fair compensation
Canada Square  should put Mrs T in the financial  position shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken 
out PPI.
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Mrs T would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Mrs T owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square  can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mrs T would  
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Canada  Square work out what Mrs T would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mrs T paid more than enough  to clear her balance,  Canada Square should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Mrs T paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until 
the point when Mrs T would have  owed Canada Square something  on her credit  card.  
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Canada Square should tell Mrs T what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mrs T a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I require Canada Square  
Operations Limited to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5629826