K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss B took out a loan with Lloyds during a branch meeting in 1996. Lloyds sold her the PPI 
policy it seems  at the same time in connection  with this loan.
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for the remaining term of the loan if she was 
off work sick and for up to 12 months  if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Bs complaint  should be upheld. Miss B didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Miss B was eligible for the policy.  Based on Miss Bs age 
and work  status  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied she would have been eligible for the 
policy.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional  and needed  her consent 
before it could be applied to her account. Miss B says she was instructed that if she did not 
sign she would not get the loan. Miss B has emphasised that she was young and vulnerable 
at the time of the sale. She didnt know she was being sold an optional  extra  and thought it 
was compulsory. She says she didnt know  what PPI was and didnt need  it as her mother 
covered all her costs and she lived rent free.
Lloyds no longer have a copy  of Miss Bs application  form. This is understandable  given the 
length of time since the sale. However,  theyve  provided us with a sample  credit  agreement 
from the time of the sale. From my understanding of the way single premium PPI policies 
were sold during branch sales, I think this sample form represents the type of form Miss B 
would have completed at the time of sale. So Ive looked to this to help me decide how it is 
more likely the PPI was presented.
This credit agreement provided two equally clear options to either  take or refuse PPI. 
Theres nothing on this agreement to suggest the PPI was compulsory or that Miss B 
wouldnt be approved  for the loan without PPI. Of course its possible that the representative 
told her something different but I have  to decide  what is more likely to have happened based 
on the evidence  Ive been given.  And while I appreciate what Miss B has told us, based on 
the credit  agreement Ive seen, I cant say its more likely Lloyds didnt make the optional 
nature of the PPI clear  to her. And I think its more likely that Miss B selected the option to 
take PPI and thats how it came to be applied to her account.
Ref: DRN59906682I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss B. This means they had to take adequate steps 
to ensure the PPI was suitable for Miss B. I dont  know  if Lloyds did take all the steps as they 
should have but I think the PPI was suitable for Miss B. I say this because:
-Although Miss B has told us that she was entitled to sick pay, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and for a longer period of time, potentially  for the 
remaining term of the loan if she was off work sick. And it would also have  paid out if 
she lost her job. 
-Miss B has explained that she had no real outgoings as her mother, who had a 
successful business, covered  her living costs and she didnt have to pay any bills. I 
appreciate what Miss B has said about  her lack of outgoings  and about her family 
being able to help but this was an extra outgoing that would have to be taken take 
care of. As well intentioned as Miss Bs familys offer to help may have been,  this was 
not guaranteed and circumstances change. Anyway ultimately the loan repayments 
were Miss Bs responsibility alone and so I dont think in that in this circumstances 
Lloyds were wrong to advise Miss B to take PPI.
-The policy contained some exclusions and restrictions. For example, those relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. However, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
Miss B was affected  by the main exclusions and restrictions  under the policy and so it 
looks like she could have made a successful claim if the need arose.
-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable to Miss B at 
the time of the sale. Although its unlikely that the interest on the PPI was disclosed 
to Miss B, this was a relatively small amount and I cant  see that it would have made  
it unsuitable for Miss B.
-Although the policy wouldnt have provided a pro-rata refund if cancelled  early, the 
loan was for a relatively short term and I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that 
Miss B intended to settle this loan early at the time of the sale. So I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable for Miss B.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable  for Miss B, Lloyds also had to give her clear  
information so that she could make  an informed decision about whether or not to take the 
PPI out. Again I dont think Lloyds did give Miss B all the information  as they should have, in 
particular about  the costs,  benefits  and main  exclusions/onerous terms in the policy.  But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have  to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same  reasons that I think  the PPI was suitable for her.
So I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold Miss B this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019
Ref: DRN59906683Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5990668