K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the end of lease charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK 
Limited (MBFS) have  asked him to pay.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May of this year. I explained why I was planning not to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr L took receipt of a new car in June 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire agreement 
with MBFS.
He returned the car in March 2019  and it was independently inspected.  The inspector 
identified that there  was significant damage  to each of the four alloys.  He thought  the 
damage was in excess of fair wear and tear and that a repair  would not be feasible.  So 
MBFS charged Mr L £1822.44 (£455.61) to replace the wheels.
Mr L disputed the charge.  He said hed been  in touch  with the dealership  before he returned 
his car and had asked  them how much  it would cost to repair the scratches  on the alloys.  
Hed provided photographs of the damage  and the dealership had provided a quote of £150 
+ VAT per wheel to complete the repairs. He said it was therefore unreasonable  to expect 
him to pay to replace the wheels when a repair was feasible.
MBFS didnt agree with Mr L. They said the inspector was expert  in these matters and was 
best placed to decide  if the damage  was so significant that a repair  wasnt feasible. They 
said that the dealership had provided  a quote  based  solely  on the photographs  Mr L had 
provided and the inspectors view was therefore  more reliable. They did offer a reduction in 
the refurbishment charge of 15% but Mr L was still dissatisfied with their response so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the photographs  of the damage provided by the inspector and the 
ones Mr L had taken,  upon which the dealership  provided their repair quote. She thought  the 
damage was the same  in each set of pictures.  She agreed that the damage was beyond  
what would  be considered fair wear and tear for a vehicle being returned at the end of its 
lease and she thought it was clear  a charge could be made for refurbishment.  She reviewed  
the damage matrix that MBFS  had supplied to Mr L before  he returned the car. This said that 
scratches to alloys would be charged at £85 but that excessive damage charges would be 
for MBFS  to decide. She didnt think this made the potential charge clear.  She asked MBFS 
for evidence  that the wheels had been replaced  and they provided a job card from the 
dealership in which this work was listed as completed.  But she wasnt  persuaded MBFS 
had been reasonable.  She thought it was likely the wheels  could have  been  successfully 
repaired and she therefore  thought  the fairest resolution would be for MBFS to charge Mr L 
£150 plus VAT for each wheel - the price hed been quoted by the dealership.
MBFS didnt agree with the adjudicators view. They thought she was putting too much 
emphasis on the dealerships quote, which was based on photographic evidence, and not 
enough focus on the independent experts view, who had actually seen the damage.  They  
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN51045162my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view of this complaint. I know  that will be 
disappointing for Mr L so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.
The terms of his agreement explained  that Mr L was responsible  for making good any 
damage or loss to the vehicle however it occurred.
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) provide the industry  guidelines 
on what should be considered fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of its 
lease.
I think all sides  agree that the scratches  that were present on all four of Mr Ls wheels were 
in excess of that standard. So do I, as most of the circumference of each  alloy was badly 
scuffed.
So I think its reasonable for MBFS to apply a charge as the damage was clearly beyond 
reasonable wear  and tear.
The question is whether that damage necessitated the replacement of the wheels or whether 
it could have been repaired.
MBFS sent Mr L a damage  matrix before he returned the car. I dont think  Mr L would have 
been able to ascertain how much hed be charged for the damage to his alloys  from this 
matrix. It wasnt clear. So I can understand Mr L would have wanted to obtain  a quote.
That quote confirms  that the dealership  would  have repaired the damage for £150  plus VAT 
per wheel. The quote isnt ambiguous; it doesnt  say the quote  is subject to a visual 
inspection. It is, I think  its fair to say, a promise to repair the damage  for the sum advised. I 
think its implicit in that offer that the quality of the work would be satisfactory.
But Mr L didnt get the car repaired.  He took the risk that MBFSs assessment of the 
refurbishment cost would differ from the dealerships.  
Its normal for finance companies to use independent companies to inspect cars at the end 
of their leases. That was the case  here.  Im therefore  satisfied  that there was no financial 
advantage to the inspector to identify refurbishment that wasnt  necessary. It was his opinion 
that replacement  wheels were required as the damage was so extensive. He had been able 
Ref: DRN51045163to visually inspect the wheels and I think his assessment was likely to be more reliable than 
the assessment  made by the dealership. He would be able to ascertain the depth of the 
scuffs and scratches and I dont  think the dealership would  have been  able to do that based 
simply on the photographic evidence that had been  provided.
Mr L chose not to have  the car repaired before he returned it. That was his choice and he 
was therefore  subject to MBFSs assessment of what was reasonably chargeable. There  
seems to be a fine line here between  what could be repaired and what necessitated 
replacement. But I dont  think  MBFSs assessment can be said to be unreasonable. 
MBFS didnt have to have the wheels  replaced. The industry guidance, provided by the 
BVRLA, suggests they could simply sell the car at auction and hope the refurbishment 
charges they made covered the loss they incurred. Im persuaded the damage was so 
extensive as to warrant replacement as I can see MBFS  have provided the dealerships work 
sheet. It seems they replaced the wheels and didnt refurbish them or simply send the car for 
auction. 
So I think it was fair for MBFS to make a charge to replace  the wheels. Ive therefore  
considered whether they charged  too much  for the wheels  they replaced. MBFS have 
provided details  to show that similar wheels sold by independent dealers sell for about  £648. 
They charged £455.61 and have explained that they are still prepared to discount these by 
15% to £387.27.  Theyve explained  that they havent added any labour costs. That sounds 
fair so Im not expecting to ask them  to reduce this cost any further and overall Im not 
expecting to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
MBFS accepted my decision but Mr L didnt. He said his decision not to refurbish  the wheels 
before the car was handed back was based  on firm advice by MBFS about the standards  
theyd inspect to. When he inspected the wheels  himself  he thought the damage  was well 
within those limits and he was surprised to find that the inspector didnt appear to be 
conversant with the standard MBFS had told him about.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls additional  comments.  
I think the damage to the alloys was excessive and in those circumstances the damage 
matrix Mr L was sent wouldnt clearly show him how much MBFS would charge: it wasnt 
defined. 
The inspector assessed the damage based on guidelines that are, as Ive explained, 
provided by the BVRLA and are the industry  standard. I dont think theres  evidence  that this 
inspection was inaccurate and the photographs in the report support the inspectors  findings.
Ref: DRN51045164Im persuaded the damage was so extensive as to warrant replacement, as MBFS chose to 
do so rather than simply to sell the car at auction.  This was a reasonably unusual course of 
action and I think it supports the finding  that the damage was extensive.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104516