K820x#14complaint
An appointed representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G) made a 
recommendation to Mr and Mrs P for a remortgage. They also consolidated a credit  card 
debt and three loans  into the new mortgage.  They complain through their solicitors that the 
advice was unsuitable.
background
Mr and Mrs Ps existing  mortgage was a capital repayment mortgage  at the lenders 
standard variable  interest rate. They owed £46,100. They  also had three  unsecured loans 
and a credit  card approaching its limit. 
In 2008 they approached L&G who recommended a re-mortgage with a different lender at a 
fixed interest rate of 6.74%. The new mortgage  remained  on a repayment  basis,  without any 
extension to the existing term. The loan amount was £82,099.00.  This figure included 
£21,941 to repay debts  which were consolidated  into the new loan.
In 2017 they complained to L&G that its advice to consolidate the debts was unsuitable,  and 
that adding to the loan a premium for accident,  sickness and unemployment  insurance  made  
it more expensive than it needed to be.
L&G didnt uphold  their complaint. It said that in addition to their mortgage Mr and Mrs P had 
three loans,  one of which had been  taken out to consolidate debt. They also had a credit  
card, with a balance  that was approaching its credit limit and their current account was at the 
limit of its overdraft.
It said Mr and Mrs P benefited from a lower interest rate than they had been paying.
Consolidation of their debts increased the amount of their disposable income to a level that 
should have prevented them from having  to rely on unsecured credit  to supplement their 
outgoings.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  and brought their complaint to this service. But our adjudicator 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were fully aware of the 
implications of consolidating their loan into the mortgage. L&Gs  mortgage  suitability report 
highlighted the cost difference. The most important aspect was to have one manageable  
payment.
Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors  had also said in their complaint  to L&G:
Can you confirm the additional borrowing to fund ASU (accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover)  has not affected  the mortgage  product and rate available? We note 
the mortgage rate increased during the sales process.
L&G didnt deal with this but the adjudicator said:
The mortgage  offer showed the borrowing to be £80,099 on a fixed rate of 6.74% and the 
property value as £95,000, so the KFI and mortgage offer have the ASU premium added in 
both instances  - it appears the property was down-valued during the valuation and I think 
this may be the reason why the mortgage  rate increased.
Ref: DRN54153982Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors  asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.  They  said the 
extent of the re-financing was unreasonable and that at least  some of the loans shouldnt  
have been redeemed. The fact Mr and Mrs P knew what was happening  was irrelevant if the 
debt consolidation  advice  was unreasonable.
They said the cost of the protection  insurance distorted the cost of the loan. The down 
valuation, for whatever  reason,  added to the distortion. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors  that unsuitable  advice doesnt become suitable just 
because the customer  is made aware of the payments and cost.
The client  review recorded  that Mr and Mrs Ps combined net monthly  income was £1,953. 
Their monthly expenses such as utilities, council tax, insurances, food and clothing and 
travel came to £681. The monthly payments on four unsecured debts were £50, £112,  £226 
and £134, total £522. The monthly  payments on the existing  mortgage were £359. Thus their 
total monthly outgoings were £1,562 leaving a surplus of £391.
The monthly payments  on the re-mortgage would be £637  producing  total outgoings of 
£1,318 and a surplus  of £635, which  Mr and Mrs P clearly spent as they were  heavily in 
debt.
Mrs Ps current account was at the limit of its overdraft. The copy  bank statement provided 
showed she was consistently overdrawn during the month at (mainly) just under £500. £500 
is the automatic  overdraft  facility given by her bank. She also went over the overdraft limit in 
order to make a payment  on one of the loans.
Mr and Mrs Ps credit  card debt was £1,767  against a credit  limit of £2,000. A £5,000  loan 
had itself been taken to consolidate earlier borrowing. There  was a further loan from the 
same bank of £11,000 whose  purpose  is unclear, and a fourth loan of £5,000  for 
improvements. If not actually living beyond their means, Mr and Mrs P were close  to the 
edge and any unforeseen expenditure  could have put them in difficulty. 
Whilst technically they had £391 of disposable income before the advice, they appear to 
have been living to the maximum of their income and possibly beyond that. There  had 
already been one consolidation. So unless they reduced their debt costs significantly,  its 
unlikely they would have been  able to get back into a stable financial position. The 
consolidation gave  them  the disposable income  they theoretically  had before  the 
consolidation and hopefully  would have given them the ability to reduce their other  debts and 
live within their means. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded that the consolidation advice was unsuitable.
In relation to the cost of the protection insurance,  Ive also seen  an email from (I think) the 
lender to L&G saying:
Hi Mark,  just to let you know that we have had the offer in on this but the rate has gone up. 
It is now 6.74% with a repayment of £623.76  (difference of £34.63 from what originally 
quoted). Can you confirm  you are ok to proceed  on this asap  please.
Ref: DRN54153983The adjudicator thought  this may have  been  because the property was down-valued during 
the valuation.  The key facts illustration assumed a property  value of £115,000 but the 
mortgage offer said £95,000. That would have affected the loan to value and possibly the 
rate Mr and Mrs P were  entitled to.
At my request the lender has now confirmed that the down-valuation was the reason for the 
rate increase.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5415398