K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  turned down her accidental damage  claim on 
her home insurance policy.
background
I sent Mrs G and Aviva a provisional decision on 28 February 2020 to explain why I felt the 
offer Aviva had made was fair. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Aviva initially rejected the claim as its engineers checked the laptop and found that it hadnt 
been used since  the policy started. However,  Mrs G sent in further evidence that her 
daughter and the laptops manufacturer had obtained which  showed that the laptop had 
been used since  the start of the policy. And, since our involvement, Aviva now accepts that 
its engineers were mistaken  and that the claim is valid.
Aviva has therefore offered to write a letter of apology to Mrs G, write  a letter  explaining its 
mistake and that it would  have no effect on any future insurance, and pay Mrs G £500 
compensation.
Mrs G has said she is happy to accept  the two letters  but feels the offer of compensation 
should be higher.  She says she has been caused  a significant amount of worry, distress and 
inconvenience since the start of her claim and is now very angry at what  her and her 
daughter were put through as a result.
Ive looked at the evidence we have and what Mrs G has told us about how the claim and 
complaint have affected her. And, having  done so, I think Avivas offer of £500 is fair and 
reasonable.
Firstly I should explain that, while I understand this matter will have had a significant impact 
on Mrs Gs daughter as well, I can only consider the distress and inconvenience  suffered by 
Mrs G herself.  Mrs G is the person named  on the insurance policy and so she is the eligible 
complainant here. And I can only consider the distress and inconvenience suffered by, and 
make an award to, the eligible  complainant.
As Aviva initially declined the claim,  it didnt arrange  for the laptop  to be repaired. So Mrs G 
had to arrange for the laptop  to be repaired herself  and was without  the laptop until these 
repairs were completed.  Mrs G has told us the laptop was repaired free of charge by another 
company, so she wasnt caused  a financial loss. But shes  said she was without the laptop 
for just under  four weeks. And as the laptop was specially adapted for Mrs Gs daughter  to 
use at university, and she didnt have a replacement in the meantime, I think this time 
without the laptop will have caused Mrs G significant  distress.
When Aviva  initially declined the claim, it told Mrs G it thought  the claim was fraudulent.  
Mrs G has told us that she hasnt had any problems either renewing this policy  or with other 
insurers. So it doesnt appear that this accusation has caused Mrs G any further problems, 
beyond this claim. And Aviva has now offered to write her a letter explaining its mistake and 
that it should have no further impact  so it shouldnt cause  any problems in the future either.  
But I think this false accusation will have caused  Mrs G considerable worry and distress,  
particularly due to the length of time this claim and complaint have been going on for and 
that the accusation was only withdrawn  following this services investigation.
Ref: DRN59567662It is always difficult to put a monetary figure on the distress and inconvenience a person 
suffered. And I appreciate  that Mrs G feels the award should be higher.  But, taking into 
account the distress  and inconvenience Mrs G suffered, and awards made by the Financial  
Ombudsman Service for what I think are similar  levels of distress and inconvenience,  I think  
£500 is fair and reasonable  compensation in this case.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs G and Aviva sent in.
Aviva accepted the provisional decision. But Mrs G made a number of further  points, which I 
will address  below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mrs G said she feels  the additional premium she 
paid for personal  items protection on the policy was a waste  of money. But the nature of 
insurance is that premiums will sometimes be paid for cover  that wasnt  ultimately  needed. 
Had Mrs G not been  able to get the laptop repaired elsewhere, Aviva  would have been 
required to repair it here. And, just because Mrs G hasnt  made  any other claims under  the 
personal items protection  part of the policy, doesnt  mean that the premium  should be 
refunded.
Mrs G also mentioned a claim for damage  to her daughters watch which she didnt pursue 
because this claim was still ongoing. And I understand Mrs Gs reluctance to start a new 
claim while this one was going on, particularly given her experience on this claim. But it was 
ultimately her decision to not pursue  the claim and I dont think  it would be fair to require 
Aviva to pay further compensation as a result. 
Mrs G also told us that, when she was trying to move  her home insurance to a new provider, 
the new provider  told her it could see details of this claim and complaint and then withdrew  
its offer of insurance.  Shes  therefore concerned that this claim is still having an effect  on her 
and could continue  to do so in the future.
But the information Mrs G sent us from her credit file doesnt  show Aviva has recorded 
anything incorrect on it. Mrs G hasnt been able to send us anything from the potential new 
insurance provider  to say what  it saw or why it withdrew its offer of insurance. And Aviva has 
told us several times that its checked all the databases it records information on and there  is 
nothing that would have an adverse effect on Mrs G.
I appreciate Mrs Gs concern. But without  further  information from her or her potential new 
insurer, I cant see that Aviva has recorded  anything incorrectly. And, in any event, part of 
the offer Aviva has made is to write  a letter  to her explaining its mistake and that it should 
have no effect  on any future insurance. So Mrs G will be able to show this letter  to any 
potential future insurer, which should  prevent any adverse effects from this claim.
I understand Mrs G still feels the award  should be higher.  But having considered all the 
available evidence, I still think  £500  is fair and reasonable  compensation in this case. So I 
still think Avivas  offer is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN59567663putting things right
Aviva should:
write a letter of apology to Mrs G
write a letter to Mrs G explaining its mistake  and that it should have no effect on any 
future insurance
pay Mrs G £500  compensation
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what  
Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5956766