K821x#15complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his home  emergency  insurance 
policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
UKI uses agents to handle claims on its behalf  and so all references to UKI in this decision 
should be read as also including those  agents. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr N made a claim under his policy in September 2018, as his boiler was not working. UKI
sent a contractor out to look at the problem the next day. However, I understand  Mr N hadnt
been told to expect him and so he did not answer the door to him. Another appointment was
made for two days later. The engineer that attended said that some  parts  needed to be
replaced. He said this would cost £675.24  (including six hours  labour  of around £250).
Mr Ns policy  has a limit of £500  per claim and so he was asked to pay the £175.24 over this
limit.
The engineer came back out on 8 October  2018  and fitted the parts.  Having done  this, the
boiler was apparently igniting but would cut itself off after a short while.  UKIs  engineers  said
the power circuit board (PCB) and another part needed to be replaced.
UKI said this meant the boiler was now beyond economic repair  due to the total cost of the
parts needed to repair it and, as the claim had exceeded the policy  limit already, there was
nothing more it could  do under the policy.
Given this, Mr N arranged for a new boiler  to be installed  (at a cost of approximately  £1,850).
When Mr Ns engineer  came to fit the new boiler,  he said the condensation pipe was blocked
and this would have caused  the boiler to keep cutting out and breaking down regularly.
Mr Ns engineer said that if the pipe had been  cleaned out it would have resolved the issue.
Mr N is very unhappy about this and the service  provided by UKI. Mr N says he incurred
significant outlay  unnecessarily and has asked UKI to reimburse  the cost of the new boiler.
Mr N also said UKIs  engineer had only worked  for here hours on the initial repair,  and not
the six hours he was charged for, which  is fraud.
UKI accepted that the contractor had only worked  for three hours on the initial repair  and so
refunded £123.12 of the excess payment Mr N had made for this. However, UKI doesnt
accept that it acted incorrectly in deeming  the boiler to be BER. UKI says it can only rely on
the opinion of its own gas engineers. It did however offer a £250 contribution to a new boiler.
One of our investigators  looked into the case. He determined that it should  be upheld,  as he
said Mr Ns gas engineer  had said the boiler was easily repairable and there is nothing in
UKIs engineers notes  to confirm that he had checked the condensate pipe.
The investigator therefore recommended that UKI reimburse Mr N the cost he incurred in
having the boiler replaced, less the cost of replacing the condensate pipe (which is a cost
Mr N would always have had to pay as the policy limit had been used up).
Ref: DRN51217342UKI does  not accept  the investigators  assessment. It says it is not possible to know  for sure
that the condensate pipe would have resolved the problem with the boiler. Theres also no
evidence that it was incorrect in its diagnosis to write  the boiler off; and the boiler was over
10 years  old, which  is its average life expectancy anyway. UKI says there  are two conflicting
engineer's reports and it is now unable to verify entirely either way, but as a gesture of good
will offered  to pay half the cost of the new boiler.
Mr N didnt accept this offer, so the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs engineer deemed the boiler  to be BER but Ive not been provided with any cost
analysis to establish that this was the case.  And in addition to this, there  is dispute  as to
what other work was required to get the boiler  working properly at that stage. UKIs engineer
said the PCB needed  to be replaced.
Whereas Mr Ns engineer says: Upon inspection we found the condensate pipe was
blocked. This removes all products of combustion from the boiler  and if it is unable  to do so
as in this case,  the boiler will cut out for safety reasons.
It is my professional opinion that the problem  with this boiler was purely due to the
condensate pipe being blocked, which should  have been one of the very first checks
carried out. This simply needed to be cleared through.
Theres no evidence that UKIs engineer checked or cleaned the condensate pipe and UKI
has not disputed  what Mr Ns engineer has said about this being a common  cause of a boiler
cutting out in the way reported  in this case.
There is therefore some doubt  about  the boiler being BER.  However,  I do not consider that
there is enough evidence to require  UKI to reimburse the entire cost of the new boiler.
I say this because,  while  there is some doubt that the boiler  was BER, it has not been
proven that the boiler only needed  to have the condensate pipe cleaned.
Mr Ns engineers report does not comment on the parts that UKIs  engineer  had already
replaced. So theres no evidence the initial repairs were  not also needed. He also apparently
inspected the boiler  after it was removed,  as Mr N says it was by then too late to not go
ahead with the replacement. So we cannot be sure if cleaning the condensate pipe out
would have been successful in resolving  the problem with the boiler staying on; and cannot
therefore be sure that the PCB wasnt also faulty.
Given this and also the age of the boiler,  I am not persuaded  that UKI needs to pay for the
entire cost of the replacement boiler.  I consider that a contribution of half the cost is
reasonable.
I also consider that an additional sum of £150  is warranted to reflect the delay in attending
and coming back to fit the parts  while  Mr N was without the use of a boiler and so without
heating and hot water.
Ref: DRN51217343It is extremely disappointing that the engineer claimed for significantly more labour costs
than were actually needed. I am pleased that UKI refunded the excess labour costs  that
Mr N paid.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require  UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr N half
the cost of the new boiler, and £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience
caused by its handling  of his claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mr N has confirmed he accepts my provisional  decision. 
UKI does  not accept  my provisional  decision. UKI says it attended  Mr Ns property three 
times in 2018. On the second visit (a few months  before this claim) it changed the 
condensate pipe assembly and reported that the boiler was in very poor condition. 
On the last visit, which is the subject of this complaint,  its engineers advised against  
repairing the boiler, as so many parts would be required  to ensure it worked properly. 
However, it did try and repair the boiler by replacing  some parts.  When  it became apparent 
that more parts were required,  it determined  the boiler to be beyond economic  repair.  UKI 
says its obligation  is to ensure that any repair done  lasts and if it cant  guarantee this, the 
boiler will be written  off, in line with the terms of the policy.  Overall,  it says the decision to 
declare Mr Ns boiler beyond economic repair was based on the age and condition  of the 
boiler; the parts that its engineers considered would be required to successfully repair  the 
boiler; and the policy limits. It does not agree that the condense trap was blocked, as this 
would have been checked,  and it was replaced only a few months prior anyway. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has stated in in response to my provisional decision that it changed the condensate pipe 
a few months before this claim and that it would have been  checked again in dealing  with 
this claim.  It says therefore that a blockage  or other problem with the condensate pipe 
cannot have been the cause of the boiler breaking down in October 2018. 
This has not been  stated previously at any point.  And there is, as far as I am aware,  no 
contemporaneous evidence of the condensate  pipe being  checked in October 2018 or 
having been replaced earlier in 2018. 
UKI also says the decision to write  off the boiler was because its engineers didnt  think  a 
lasting repair  could  be done within the policy limits  and their general consideration of the age 
and poor overall  condition  of the boiler.  
However, the policy has very specific definition of beyond economic repair as follows: 
Ref: DRN51217344Beyond economic repair: When the cost of repairing your boiler  exceeds  85% of the manufacturers 
current retail price (or if this is not available, the average current  retail  price available through 
leading UK suppliers) for a boiler of the same or similar make and model to your boiler .
As stated in my provisional decision, UKIs engineers have  not provided any cost analysis to 
establish that the boiler was beyond  economic  repair in accordance with the policy  terms. 
I also note that UKIs file contains a note dated  1 October 2018,  which  says:  The age of the 
boiler is 9 years + & the condition is described  as ok. I have not seen any other 
contemporaneous evidence of the very poor condition of the boiler that UKI relies on.
Given this, I remain of the opinion that there  is some  doubt about the boiler being beyond 
economic repair. I also remain of the opinion that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint for UKI to pay half the cost of the replacement boiler and 
£150 compensation for the handling of the matter. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require UK Insurance  Limited to pay Mr N half the cost of 
the new boiler and £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused by its handling  of his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5121734