K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK plc wont refund money  that was taken  from his 
account without  his knowledge  or consent. The bank  has also closed his account  and 
registered his details with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service.  
background
Mr B says that he last used his bank card on 20 November 2017, when he made a 
contactless payment.  He mislaid it at some  point after that, and between 22 and 29 
November a large number of card transactions were made  including  contactless 
payments, cash machine  withdrawals and chip and PIN payments. Payments totalling £180 
were also made into the account. The account balance was reduced to almost  nothing.  
There was no further activity on Mr Bs account until the end of December  2017,  when 
£2,500 was paid into the account. Further withdrawals followed, in the form of a cash 
machine withdrawal, an online payment and a withdrawal of £2,000 at an assisted  service  
device (or ASD); there were also further  chip and PIN payments. 
Barclays was told that the £2,500 deposit was fraudulent, in the sense that it had been  taken  
from an account without  the account  holders knowledge. Barclays closed Mr Bs account 
and logged his details with CIFAS. In February 2018  Mr B reported  his card lost and raised 
this complaint. 
Mr B said he noticed that his card was missing after about three weeks but didnt report it; he 
was worried about  how his mother would react. He also said he hadnt logged  on to his 
account, so didnt know about  the activity on it. He said too that he didnt give his card,  PIN 
or other details to anyone else and didnt keep  a record of his PIN. He hadnt lost or mislaid 
his mobile phone. 
When Mr B referred his complaint to this service, one of our adjudicators considered  it. She 
concluded however that Mr B had either made the transactions himself, had allowed 
someone else to do so or had given someone else access to his account. Whichever of 
those was correct, she didnt think that it would  be fair to ask Barclays to refund  the amounts 
taken from the account or to remove the CIFAS  marker. Mr B (whos been represented by 
his mother) didnt accept her findings and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusion as the adjudicator did. 
All of the card payments  were carried out using  Mr Bs genuine card;  with the exception  of 
the contactless payments, they also needed the PIN. Mr B hasnt been able to explain how 
someone could  have obtained either the card or the PIN, but someone  had both. Even if 
hed lost his card, whoever found  it or took it from him wouldnt have been able to find out 
the PIN from the card; its most unlikely theyd  be able to guess it either. 
The ASD withdrawal would have needed  additional security  information   in this case, Mr Bs 
date of birth. Its unlikely  that someone  unknown to Mr B would have been able to find this 
out from the card alone. Similarly, the online payment from the account would have needed  
additional information  not just the card and PIN.   
Ref: DRN55668822Mr B says he was unaware  of the activity on his account for some weeks. But the banks 
records indicate that someone accessed his account  using its mobile  app some 25 times 
between the end of November 2017  and January 2018. Since  Mr B has said he had his 
mobile phone all that time, I think it more likely than not that he did in fact know what was 
happening. Even by his own account,  Mr B realised  his card was missing  by about mid-
December, but didnt say anything to Barclays. Had he reported the matter  then,  the second 
group of transactions  including  the fraudulent payment into his account of £2,500   
wouldnt have been possible. 
In my view, its likely that Mr B allowed  someone  else to use his account.  He may not have 
realised what the consequences  of that might be, and its possible  too that he hasnt 
benefited from dong so; he may himself be a victim.  The circumstances in which  someone  
else came  to have access to Mr Bs account arent clear, because hes maintained that he 
doesnt know what happened. Im afraid  though that I believe he knows  rather  more  than 
hes been prepared  to say. 
In all the circumstances, I dont believe it was unfair of Barclays to close  Mr Bs account or to 
register his details with CIFAS. Nor do I think it would be fair to require Barclays  to reimburse 
Mr B for the money hes lost. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any 
steps to resolve  Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5566882