K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss F bought a regular premium PPI policy  alongside  a loan in 1988. She purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor  from Halifax in one of its branches. The loan and 
policy ended in 2004. The policy covered Miss F against accidents, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Miss F says she wasnt aware  PPI had been applied to her account.  She thinks Halifax mis-
sold the insurance to her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Fs complaint.  As she doesnt  agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Miss Fs complaint because of the following  reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Miss F during the meeting and 
Ive not been able to see most  of the original sales documentation (such as the loan 
agreement or application  form).  So its been difficult for me to consider whether   
Miss F was given a choice or not as to whether she should have the PPI policy  (or 
whether it was added  without  her knowledge).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection of how the 
meeting at the time of sale. This is understandable considering the amount of time 
that has passed. So, I cannot  fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold 
in the way Miss F say it was. I just havent  seen enough to make  that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the PPI to Miss F during the meeting  
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this 
was the case.  So as it did recommend  the policy to Miss F, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for her needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the PPI policy was 
unsuitable for Miss F based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The 
benefit would have been of use to Miss F during  a difficult  time and although she had 
3 months sick pay, the benefit would  have been paid in addition  to this and for longer. 
Ref: DRN54538622I think, on balance,  Miss F had a need for this cover  for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other reason such as a significant  
or limiting term that would make the policy  unsuitable for her.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy  that 
Miss F took out but even  though it has provided information detailing  the cover and 
how much  it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Miss F in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Miss F would have done anything different and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Miss F wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Miss Fs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453862