K822xcomplaint
Mr H complained that British Gas Insurance Limiteds appointed contractor failed to test his 
boiler correctly which  led to him incurring unnecessary costs.  
 
background 
Mr H applied to take out a British Gas HomeCare policy  for a rental property he owned. As 
part of the application process, British Gas arranged to carry out a first service check on the 
boiler, to confirm if it was prepared to offer cover. 
A British Gas engineer inspected the boiler  on 25 January  2018.  The engineer said the boiler 
failed the first service  check  as hed detected products of combustion in the boiler casing. He 
provided a quote  for approximately £1,300 to replace the heat exchanger, which  he said was 
broken, and suggested that a new boiler may be more advisable.  He also issued a Safety  
Warning Notice indicating the boiler was potentially  unsafe and shouldnt be used. 
Mr H contacted the boiler manufacturer, who Ill call IB, on 26 January 2018 as he was 
unhappy with British Gass quote. He said it offered to complete  the repair for £300. But 
Mr H said IB asked  him for the British  Gass engineers ID number so it could check  he was 
gas safe registered. This information hadnt been  left by the engineer, so Mr H contacted  
British Gass customer service department. When it was unable  to provide the number, IB 
had the gas supply to the property disconnected as a precaution until a gas safe engineer  
was on site. 
Mr H has said he had to arrange  for a third party gas engineer,  who Ill call S, to attend the 
property on 27 January 2018,  at a cost of £100, so the gas supply  could be reconnected. 
When IB inspected the boiler on 30 January 2018 it could find no fault with the boiler,  and 
suggested the British Gas engineer  had failed to test it correctly.  Mr H said that as hed paid 
a fixed price for the call out and repair, the IB engineer carried  out a non-essential repair  to 
the boiler. 
Mr H complained to British Gas. He said hed incurred unnecessary costs having the boiler 
inspected again  and having the gas supply reconnected. He also said his tenants had been 
without hot water and heating  for a number  of days. He also felt hed been misled  about 
whod carry out the boiler  inspection, as hed been told that British  Gas didnt use contracted  
engineers, which it had on this occasion. He was also raised concerns about the 
competence of the engineer, as hed inspected the boiler incorrectly.    
In investigating  his concerns, British Gas had its service  and repair manager inspect Mr Hs 
boiler. He found  the boiler to be in working order, and didnt find any evidence  of products of 
combustion. As a gesture of goodwill, the engineer  completed the first service check, issued 
a landlords certificate  and completed  some minor work to the flue. 
British Gas partially upheld Mr Hs complaint. It acknowledged that the original engineer 
tested the boiler  incorrectly, but it said the works and quotes for repairs  were correct.  It relied  
on the fact that S had found  the same  problem with the boiler,  and had also issued a 
Warning/Advice (Danger  Do Not Use) Notice Report. But it offered Mr H £210  
compensation for the trouble and upset  he experienced in raising  his complaint and the 
problems hed encountered with British Gas.  
Ref: DRN57518772Mr H was unhappy with British Gass offer of compensation, so brought his complaint to our 
service for consideration. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was persuaded the 
original engineers diagnosis had been incorrect. As a result he recommended  that in 
addition to the compensation offered it should also pay Mr H £400  to cover the costs  he 
encountered having the gas supply reconnected  and having the unnecessary  repair work 
carried out. 
Mr H agreed with the investigators findings.  But British Gas didnt reply by the deadline set, 
so the case was passed for an ombudsmans final decision. 
While the case was awaiting allocation to an ombudsman,  British Gas provided  some  further 
information for our consideration. It said:
the problem  its engineer  identified led to it classifying the boiler as at risk, but 
wouldnt have led to the gas being  disconnected.  So it said it wasnt  responsible for 
the property being  without gas for a number  of days;
S reached the same diagnosis as its engineer,  which  showed  the diagnosis  wasnt 
incorrect; 
IB had provided a report which showed that parts had been replaced,  which  may 
have resolved the underlying issue its engineer had diagnosed
but it accepted  that while its engineer had identified  the correct  problem with the 
boiler, hed quoted  for an incorrect part to fix it. 
In view of British Gass new information  I asked Mr H if he had any evidence of the repairs IB 
had carried out, and whether theyd been  necessary to resolve  the underlying problem the 
original engineer had detected. 
Mr H provided  evidence  from IB to show the repairs that were  carried out werent essential 
and didnt stop products of combustion, which it had found no evidence of. 
Having considered all the information  presented  by both sides, I issued a provisional  
decision on 4 April 2019.
my provisional findings
I explained why I considered British  Gas should pay Mr H £400, to compensate  him for the 
unnecessary costs hed incurred.
British Gas accepts its engineer had tested the boiler incorrectly,  and against the 
manufacturers guidelines. It also noted that its service and repair  manager  had given the 
engineer feedback on the correct way to test this type of boiler. 
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I was persuaded that the engineers  
diagnosis was also incorrect. 
I found it persuasive that when IB inspected  the boiler on 30 January 2018 it found  it to be in 
full working order, despite  no repairs having been  made. It confirmed that while  it had carried 
out a repair, this was not an essential repair to stop products of combustion. It also 
confirmed there was no evidence of products of combustion when its engineer  carried  out 
the tests.
Ref: DRN57518773I considered the fact that S had also inspected the boiler and reported the escape of 
products of combustion  from the heat exchanger. But Mr H explained he instructed S to 
reassure his energy  supplier that the boiler  had been inspected by a gas safe registered 
engineer so the gas supply could be turned back on. He said he questioned the at risk 
notice with the engineer the following week and the engineer admitted hed also tested the 
boiler incorrectly, leading  him to diagnose the escape of products of combustion. Mr H has 
said the engineer  later agreed to update their records about  how they tested IB boilers in the 
future. 
While Mr H hasnt  been able to evidence the conversation he had with S, Ive no reason to 
doubt what hes told me. And it seems to be supported  by the later inspection by IB on 
30 January 2018,  which  found  there  was no problem with the boiler. 
I also found it persuasive that when British Gass service and repair  manager inspected  the 
boiler in April 2018, which was performed correctly, he found  no evidence  of products of 
combustion within the casing. This was despite only a non-essential repair having been 
carried out by IB. 
I concluded that the original British Gas engineer failed to test the boiler correctly which  led 
to an incorrect diagnosis.  So I considered what impact this had on Mr H. 
reconnecting the gas supply 
I accepted that British  Gas did not disconnect Mr Hs gas supply. The decision to do so was 
made by IB and his energy supplier. But I was persuaded  that British  Gass actions led 
directly to the gas supply  being unnecessarily disconnected. 
I was persuaded  that had the original engineer tested the boiler correctly  Mr H wouldnt  have  
needed to contact IB for a comparison  quote. British Gas accepts it wasnt able to provide  its 
contractors ID or gas safety  number  in a timely manner. Without this information IB and the 
energy supplier couldnt satisfy itself that the appliance had been left in a safe condition,  and 
so disconnected the gas supply as a precaution. I think this was a reasonably  foreseeable 
consequence of British Gass errors. 
While Mr H hasnt  been able to provide  evidence  of what he paid, its clear there wouldve 
been a cost involved. I asked British Gas for its comments  on what it considered  a 
reasonable cost for this call out, but to date Ive had no reply to this request. 
In the circumstances, taking everything into account I dont consider the £100 Mr H said he 
paid was unreasonable. Ive taken into account that S was called out as an emergency and 
on the weekend,  which would likely  have added to the cost.  I considered British Gas should  
reasonably cover this cost. 
repair to the boiler
IB has confirmed that the repair it carried out on 30 January 2018 wasnt  essential. As such, 
it seems unlikely Mr H wouldve had this work  done,  and incurred  the £300 charge, had he 
not received British Gass engineers estimate for repair costs. So I consider  British Gas 
should also reasonably cover  this cost.
Ref: DRN57518774responses to my provisional  decision 
British Gas didnt  agree with my provisional decision. It maintained that it wasnt  responsible 
for reinstating the gas supply as it didnt advise  it be switched off. It was also satisfied that 
the original engineers diagnosis was correct as it was echoed  by S. 
Mr H acknowledged the provisional decision, but made no further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes British Gass  response to 
my provisional decision. Having done  so, Im still minded to uphold  this complaint, for much 
the same  reasons as I set out in my provisional decision. 
British Gass position appears to be based  on the belief  that there was a problem with Mr Hs 
boiler that needed to be fixed. I dont  agree  the evidence supports this position.  
I accept that two engineers identified a problem with the boiler. But its been shown that 
neither engineer followed the manufacturers  instruction manual when they did so. When  the 
boiler was retested correctly, both by IB and British  Gass  service and repair  manager,  no 
fault was found.  IB has also confirmed that the repair  it carried  out was not essential, and 
wouldnt have stopped products of combustion. 
So Im satisfied British  Gass engineer misdiagnosed a problem with Mr Hs boiler during the 
first service  check. I therefore consider that British Gas is responsible  for compensating Mr H 
for the events that flowed directly from this mistake. 
I accept British Gas didnt disconnect the gas supply to Mr Hs property. But Im persuaded 
its actions, and those  of its engineer, led to it being  disconnected unnecessarily.  
Had the engineer  tested  the boiler correctly, it seems more likely than not, he wouldnt have  
identified products of combustion.  I say this because products  of combustion werent 
identified during either of the tests  that were  carried  out correctly. 
British Gas has also accepted that it was unable to provide  its engineers ID or gas safe 
number in a timely manner. 
The gas supply was disconnected because of the risk associated with products of 
combustion being found, and being unable to verify  the engineer  was gas safe registered. I 
consider this link is clear,  and is directly  related to British Gass actions. So Im satisfied  
British Gas should be held fairly and reasonably responsible for the costs incurred in having  
the gas supply  turned back  on. 
British Gas has provided no further  comment about  the costs  Mr H said he incurred. So I 
remain of the opinion that it should cover the full cost Mr H incurred. 
Its clear that Mr H has experienced some trouble and upset while pursuing his complaint  
with British Gas. It took a considerable time to deal with his complaint in the first place, and 
then made  ongoing mistakes  while it was looking into his concerns. But I consider the £210 
British Gas has already  offered him is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances, so I wont  be 
Ref: DRN57518775asking it pay any more.  I should explain that I cant take into consideration the inconvenience 
caused to Mr Hs tenants when the boiler was disconnected, as theyre  not parties to this 
complaint. But I have considered the potential detrimental  impact on Mr Hs relationship with 
them when considering whats fair compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas should now pay Mr H
£100, plus 8% interest from 27 January 2018,  to reimburse him for the cost incurred 
in having the gas supply reconnected
£300, plus 8% interest from 30 January 2018,  to reimburse him for the cost incurred 
in having the boiler  retested and the non-essential repair  work  completed
£210 compensation it has previously offered (unless this has already been  paid)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.  
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5751877