K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave him loans 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr C took out the following loans with Sunny:
date £ amount of 
loan/no. of 
repayments
at outsetdate repaid
16 April 2016 400/6 26 July 2016
228 April 2016 50/6 12 May 2016
312 May 2016 50/6 26 May 2016
426 May 2016 100/6 24 June 2016
524 June 2016 150/6
626 July 2016 250/6
Mr C didnt repay loans  five and six in their entirely and Sunny sold those debts to a third 
party.
Mr C says that at the time of the loans he was in financial  difficulty, which was evident from 
his credit report. He says that the loans caused him financial and personal hardship. Mr C 
wants Sunny  to write off what he owes. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Sunny had treated Mr C unfairly.  She said that it carried out 
proportionate checks before loans one to four. The adjudicator said that Sunny should have 
done more before loans five and six. She said that if it had carried out proportionate checks 
before loans five and six it would have discovered that Mr C could  afford to repay  those 
loans. So, she didnt  ask Sunny to do anything further. 
Mr C accepted the adjudicators view in relation to loans one to four but disagreed with her 
conclusions about  loans five and six. He said six loans  for increasing amount in four months 
shows his dependency  on the loans. Mr C says that the fact that he took out loans four, five 
and six on the same day he repaid a loan and on his pay date should have alerted Sunny to 
his financial hardship.  He said if Sunny had asked for bank  statements,  his position would 
have been obvious. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr C, Sunny  had to check  each  time that he could afford  to make 
the repayments. The checks it did had to be proportionate.  Whats  proportionate depends on 
things like the size of the loan repayments  and the information Sunny had about  Mr C. 
Theres no set list of the checks a lender should  carry  out. 
Ref: DRN59808982Before agreeing to each  of the loans,  Sunny  asked  Mr C about  his monthly income,  which it 
recorded as £2,400. It asked about  his normal monthly living costs and other  credit  
commitments, which varied between  £900  and £1,275 during the period of the loans. It also 
carried out credit checks. 
Mr Cs first loan was for £400 and the monthly  repayments were around £111.  This was the 
beginning of Mr Cs lending relationship with Sunny. I think Sunnys checks  were 
proportionate before loan one. Ive come  to the same conclusion  in relation to loans two, 
three and four. Those  loans were for less than loan one and repayments were  over six 
months  although  I appreciate thats not how Mr C actually repaid those loans.  
The information a prospective lender can obtain  from a credit check  is much  more limited  
than the information Mr C can see from his own credit report.  Whilst the credit  checks  Sunny 
carried out showed other short-term loans and non-payment, I dont think the information  
was such that Sunny  should have done more than it did for loans one to four. 
I think that Sunny should have done  more before loans five and six. I agree with Mr C that, 
by then, a pattern of borrowing had emerged  that suggested he was reliant  on this sort of 
borrowing. In those  circumstances, proportionate  checks are likely to have established  a 
much fuller  picture of Mr Cs financial position.  I think proportionate checks  here wouldve 
meant that Sunny took steps to verify the information  Mr C provided about  his financial 
situation.  
As Sunny doesnt appear to have carried out proportionate and sufficient checks before 
loans five and six, I cant say for sure what it wouldve found out had it done so. Mr C has 
provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for the loans. 
So Ive been  able to get a picture  of what his financial circumstances  were  like. Of course, I 
accept that this isnt perfect,  as different checks show  different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information  Mr C has now provided,  it doesnt mean  that it 
wouldve shown up in any checks that Sunny mightve carried  out. But the information Mr C 
has provided is the best indication I have of what his financial circumstances were at the 
relevant time. In the absence  of anything else, I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
Ive seen from Mr Cs statements that at the time of loans five and six he had to repay other 
short-term lending. I dont  think that meant that Mr C couldnt afford to repay loans five and 
six. Ive noted that the repayments  for loans five and six were over six months and were 
around £45 and £75 respectively. Based on what Ive seen, I think  Mr C could afford to repay 
loans five and six. 
Considering everything, I think Sunny carried out proportionate checks before loans one to 
four but not before loans five and six. But I dont  think proportionate checks  would have 
shown that loans five and six were  unaffordable.   
Overall, I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions and, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Ref: DRN59808983my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5980898