K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr M says FICL mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr M owed on his store card. The policy would have  
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mr M couldnt work because  
he had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain my reasoning  below: 
FICL had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Mr M feels strongly  that he was unaware the PPI had been  
added to his account.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms signed credit agreement. On it there  is a section  related  to PPI 
where Mr M has signed to say he wanted  the policy. As Mr M has signed the form I think  its 
likely to reflect what he wanted.  Theres also nothing on the form to suggest  the PPI was 
compulsory, so if he hadnt wanted  the policy I think he wouldve known he couldve left this 
section blank. In fact, beside where  Mr M has signed it says ONLY SIGN  IF YOU  WANT  
COVER. On balance taking everything into account I think its likely that FICL would have 
asked Mr M for his agreement  to add the policy to his account and he chose to take it 
knowing he didnt have  to. Although  its understandable  that he no longer remembers this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mr M and I think  thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for him.  But FICL did need to make  sure it gave 
Mr M clear enough information about the policy to enable him to decide for himself  if he 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr M 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Ref: DRN54973242The PPI would have  paid out and until Mr M was able to return to work, or until the 
outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came  first. And the policy  would cover  the 
same term if Mr M was to lose his job. So I think he wouldve found the policy useful. Overall, 
when taking into account everything Ive seen and been told, I dont think  Mr M has lost out 
as a result  of anything  FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5497324