K821x#15complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service provided  by Elite Insurance  Company  Limited  (Elite) 
following a claim she made on her GAP insurance policy.   
background
In October  2018, following  an accident resulting in her car being written  off, Miss J made a 
claim to Elite on her GAP  insurance policy.
Elite accepted the claim. It explained  to Miss J that is was unable to settle  the claim as it had 
put in place a restricted payment protocol. This had slowed down the speed at which it could 
make payments for claims. 
Miss J had paid for her car on finance. After her car insurance policy had paid out its 
settlement there was still an outstanding  balance  that needed to be paid. Miss J was relying  
on using her GAP insurance  policy to do this. As she wasnt  in a position to pay off the 
finance from her own funds Miss J took out a personal loan to do so.
She had planned to use any remaining funds  from her GAP insurance  to buy a replacement 
car. But, due to the delay in settling the claim,  used  her mums car. Miss J arranged for one 
months temporary insurance  to do this. This meant  she was able to take her children to and 
from school. Sadly, Miss Js mum was receiving  ongoing treatment for a medical condition. 
This meant that Miss J had to ensure  the car was available for her mum to attend  medical  
appointments. Due to the length of time it took for her GAP insurance claim to be settled 
Miss J took out an annual  policy  to allow her to continue to drive her mums car.
Unhappy with the length of time it had taken for her claim  to be settled Miss J complained to 
Elite. It looked into her concerns  and said sorry for the length of time her claim was taking  to 
resolve.
Miss J brought her complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into what  had 
happened. She accepted  that the delays  in settling the claim were  beyond Elites control. But 
she felt that they had caused trouble and upset to Miss J. She recommended it pay £500  to 
reflect this and add 8% interest  to the claim settlement from when it was accepted to when it 
was paid. 
Miss J accepted our investigators finds.  Elite didnt. It said that the restricted  payment 
protocol had been put in place to ensure that all its creditors were treated fairly.  It explained  
that it was working  to clear the backlog  of claims. During the course  of our investigation Miss 
Js claim had been  settled. 
Having reviewed the complaint I was minded to award £500 for trouble and upset.  But I 
didnt think Elite should pay 8% interest  on the claim. Both parties  were  made  aware of my 
intention.
Both Miss J and Elite responded  to say they accepted my proposal.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53831272Having done so, I will be requiring Elite to take further steps to resolve this complain. Ill 
explain why.
Neither party dispute the delay in paying the claim was caused due to the restricted  payment 
protocol. So, Ive gone on to consider whether  its fair for Elite to compensate Miss J for the 
impact the delay had on her.
Miss J has said that she had to take out a loan to settle her outstanding  finance balance, 
arrange for insurance on her mums car and that her daily routine was impacted by not have 
regular access to a car.  
Miss J has said that as she didnt know how long it would take for her claim to be settled she 
arranged to only have  a months  insurance  on her mums  car. And that this wouldve been  
more expensive than taking out an annual  policy,  which is what she eventually  did. Although 
she hasnt been  able to provide an insurance schedule to support this, I accept that it is 
generally cheaper to insure for a year than on a month by month basis. So I accept that she 
wouldve likely paid more whilst waiting for the claim to be paid. And this is in addition to the 
inconvenience of not always having a car to take her children to and from school and having 
to settle the outstanding finance  balance with another loan.
I appreciate why Elite had to put in place a restricted payment  protocol  and that this delayed 
any payment to Miss J. And for this reason I dont think  it should  add 8% interest to the claim 
settlement figure. But, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that this had a financial impact  
on her and wouldve  caused trouble and upset. I also think  that she wouldve been 
concerned that Elite may not have been  able to meet its obligations  under her policy.  So, 
whilst I appreciate the delays in settling Miss Js claim  were  outside of its control, I think this 
has left her out of pocket  and caused  her trouble and upset. As it hasnt been possible to 
estimate Miss Js financial loss, I think Elite should pay her £500 to compensate her for this 
and the trouble and upset she experienced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Elite Insurance  Company Limited should pay 
Miss J £500  for the trouble and upset caused by the delays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5383127