K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her 
reject a car and is pursuing her for unpaid monthly  instalments. 
background
On 29 August 2018 Ms T signed an order form for a new car. It was to replace her existing 
car which was a similar model. The dealer says that a document  setting  out the specification 
was given to her and it has provided  a copy dated  29 August. Ms T visited  the dealer on 14 
September to sign the finance  agreement  and the car was delivered to her later that day.
She didnt  like it and noted the wing mirrors  didnt  fold in and she didnt like the centre  
consol. She emailed the salesman who was on leave  and he responded on 19 September to 
let her know she couldnt reject the car, but she could cancel the finance agreement. She 
contacted VFS and was told that she could  cancel the agreement  within  14 days, but she 
would have to find alternative method of paying  for the car. A call handler referred to a seven 
day cancellation period with the dealer. 
Ms T then left the car, keys and documents with the dealer. It says she refused to engage 
with the staff who were  trying to explain her options  and simply walked out. She didnt make 
any of the payments under the contract and VFS has pursued her for the outstanding sums.  
It also pointed out she had broker her contract  by surrendering control  of the car in leaving it 
at the dealer. 
Ms T brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  the finance  agreement stated: 
Right of Withdrawal
6.1 If the Amount  of Credit does not exceed £60,260, you have the right to withdraw  from 
this Agreement,  without  having to give any reason. Should you wish to exercise  this right,  
you must notify us in writing or orally within the withdrawal period at our address The 
withdrawal period is 14 day, beginning with the day after the day on which this agreement is 
made.
6.2 If you exercise that right to withdraw, you must  repay  us the Amount  of Credit, and pay 
us the interest  accrued on it, without undue  delay and no later than the end of the period of
30 days beginning with the day after the day on which  you give us notice of withdrawal
Title in the Vehicle will pass  to you when you pay us these sums.
He agreed that Ms T had the right to withdraw from the agreement,  but that meant  she had 
to find alternative finance to pay for the car. As far as the contract  for the purchase  of the car 
was concerned he could see no grounds  that would allow Ms T to walk away from it. He 
noted the details of the car were provided  to her by the salesman and he couldnt say she 
had been misled or that there had been  a breach of contract. 
Ms T didnt agree and said the configurator wasnt described to her in any detail and she had 
asked that she be given car the same as her existing model. Therefore she cancelled the 
contract and it was up to the dealer and VFS to resolve the matter. She didnt  inspect the car 
and the dealer hadnt been helpful  when she tried to cancel. She also suggested  the dealer 
Ref: DRN59639962used unfair  practices  when selling the car. Finally she said she had been unemployed since 
November and the payments were unaffordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I fear there has been a misunderstanding  about the relevant consumer law. When  a person 
buys a car from a dealer at the dealers premises the law offers  no cooling off period. A car 
cannot be returned simply because the buyer  decides she doesnt like it, even within  14 
days. I understand the dealer doesnt have  a policy of allowing customers to return  cars 
within seven days.
It can be returned if the dealer has misrepresented the car or there has been some breach of 
contract. However,  I have not seen any evidence that either  of these occurred in the sale of 
Ms Ts car. She says the configurator wasnt explained to her. However, it was open  to her 
to make sure she understood what she as buying was what  she wanted. It seems she 
presumed the newer model of the car would be the same as her existing one. 
I gather  the folding mirrors were important as the car is parked on street.  If that is the case 
the onus was on her to ensure the car had this feature. It would be unreasonable to expect 
the dealer to talk through every feature. He satisfied  any responsibility he had by giving her 
the configurator. It was also open  to Ms T to inspect  a similar model if she so wished to 
satisfy herself the car was what she wanted.  The same  applies to the centre  console  which  I 
gather didnt meet her requirements.
Ms T entered into two contracts, one to buy the car and the other to obtain finance  from 
VFS. She can terminate  the latter within 14 days,  but that means  she has to repay the 
Ref: DRN59639963money laid out by VFS to pay for the car. She hasnt done so and VFS is entitled to seek  
payment from her and if necessary to repossess  the car and sell it. 
I note she become unemployed after she bought the car, but that doesnt mean  that the 
granting of the finance was incorrect. At the time she took it out she wasnt  unemployed. I 
suggest she speaks  to VFS to explore how she can repay the sum she owes.  If she chooses  
not repay the amount  she is contractually obliged to pay her credit rating may be at risk
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or reject  my decision before 
18 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5963996