K820x#14complaint
Ms K says MYJAR Limited  irresponsibly  lent to her. She wants the debt written off and her 
credit report  amended.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan which MYJAR provided to Ms K on 5 April 2018. 
The loan was for £600 and was repayable in three instalments, due monthly, where the 
highest repayment was no more than £311.06.  The final instalment was due for repayment 
on 28 June 2018.  Ms K repaid  £100,  and the unpaid balance was passed  to a third party  for 
debt collection.  
Ms K says MYJAR did not make  proper checks about her income and expenditure. If it had 
done, it says it would have seen she was struggling  financially. So she concludes it lent to 
her irresponsibly at a time when  the loan was not affordable. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be rejected. Ms K disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  Ms K asked  to speak to 
me before I made my final decision.  We extended  the time to reply for her and asked her to 
contact us to arrange  the call.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. I have considered what  this means for Ms K.
Firstly, I should say Ms K asked to speak to me before I made my final decision. Our 
adjudicator called and emailed her to arrange the call, but we havent  had a response.  Since 
then Ive reviewed the case   keeping in mind the issues that Ms K most likely felt could  only 
be fairly decided  if she spoke to me first. Im satisfied  the information  we have on file fully 
covers all of the issues Ill need  to consider  to make a fair decision.
Having said that, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.  I know this will be a 
disappointing result  for Ms K, so Ill explain why.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN57744012the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But as there is only one loan here, we 
dont reach  that point  in Ms Ks case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms K could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ks complaint.
For her loan, Ms K needed to repay around  £311  per month. Ive seen a record of the 
information Ms K provided when she completed her loan application. Ms K said she had a 
monthly income of £2,500 and she had regular monthly outgoings of £850.  This left her with 
a disposable income of £1,650. So I think her loan did seem affordable at the time. 
I understand Ms K said she was suffering from severe financial stress at the time of the 
lending, but I havent seen any further  information that shows its likely MYJAR was made  
aware of any financial  problems Ms K might have  been having at that time.  And I havent 
seen anything that would have prompted it to investigate Ms Ks circumstances further.  So I 
think it was reasonable  for MYJAR to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  MYJAR did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Ms K was reasonable. So Im not upholding 
Ms Ks complaint about them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5774401