K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Gs signed  credit  agreement. On it there  is a section related to 
PPI and in the box opting for the policy is a printed cross. This policy was sold in a face-
to-face meeting  so I think  its likely  this selection  came about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Mr G, where  PPI was discussed.  Mr G has signed the 
form so I think  its likely to reflect what he wanted. And theres nothing on the form to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think its likely Halifax  made it clear 
that Mr G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr G says he would not have received sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  He says 
he had other means available to him including  savings that he could use to make his 
repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any other means he had  and 
for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. And having the PPI meant he wouldve been able to use his savings  to 
cover other necessary expenses  at what  couldve been a difficult time financially if he 
found himself out of work. So I think he wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said, including  that Halifax  accepted  that it mis-sold 
him PPI on another account. He says that as his circumstances were the same he doesnt 
understand why they upheld one and not the other.  I dont know  the reasons why Halifax 
upheld Mr Gs other complaint  Ive only looked  at this particular sale. And, for the reasons 
explained above, I dont think it was mis-sold. 
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Mr G paid for it. But I understand Halifax  has 
already given Mr G back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs to do anything 
more. 
Ref: DRN57923272my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5792327