K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  failed to successfully transfer  money to an 
account.
background
Mr R asked Nationwide to transfer just over £10,000  to a company based  abroad which  I will 
call J. He says J didnt receive his money and so asked Nationwide to find out where his 
money was. Mr R says Nationwide couldnt find his money and that impacted on his finances 
and that he was unable to pay for a funeral. He would like substantial compensation for 
whats happened as he says he has lost out on an investment opportunity.
Nationwide says the money left Mr Rs account  and was transferred in line with his 
instructions. It says it uses an intermediate bank  for such transactions  but that bank has 
confirmed that J received  Mr Rs money. Nationwide accepts it could have explained matters 
more clearly and has paid Mr R £75 compensation.
Mr R had already brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Nationwide  had 
dealt fairly  with it. The adjudicator didnt think Mr R had provided any evidence  that showed  
that J didnt receive  his money. And thought it likely  Nationwide  had transferred the money 
and that J had received it. The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide  needed  to do any more as 
it had paid compensation for the lack of clear  communication.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and would like to know where his money  went. He says he 
has now received  his money back from J but has lost about  £500 in charges in transferring 
the money back to his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr R will be disappointed  with my 
decision.
Im satisfied having looked at Nationwides records that it successfully transferred Mr Rs 
money to J. I can also see that J has now returned  Mr Rs money so I dont think  Nationwide  
has made a mistake or acted unfairly.  I think Nationwide tried to assist  Mr R and locate the 
money. But if he was told by J that it hadnt received the money (when  it appeared to have  
received the money)  then I cant fairly  hold Nationwide  responsible for that.
I accept Nationwide  didnt  clearly explain what had happened but Im satisfied that its fairly  
apologised for that part of the complaint and paid a fair and reasonable amount of £75 
compensation.
Overall Im satisfied that Nationwide followed Mr Rs instructions and that J must have 
received that money as Mr R says J returned it. So I dont think Nationwide is responsible for 
any charges or fees that have been  applied as a result of the money being returned to Mr R. 
And it follows that I cant fairly order Nationwide to reimburse that money.
Ref: DRN54134502my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5413450