K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline a claim he made 
for storm  damage under his buildings insurance  policy. 
background
Mr C owns a property with a barn situated within the grounds. In July 2018, he said there 
was a storm within the vicinity of his property which caused damage to the barn roof. So he 
contacted UKI to make a claim in October 2018. 
UKI appointed a loss adjustor to look at the damage. The loss adjustor reported that they 
didnt agree the damage was due to a one-off storm event and the weather  only highlighted 
pre-existing issues with the roof. 
UKI also said as part of its assessment of the claim,  it also looked  at images from Google 
Street View and was satisfied this showed the roof has been in a poor condition  prior to Mr C 
making the claim. 
Mr C disagreed. He said there  werent  any pre-existing issues with the barn roof. He 
maintained that the damage  was caused by a whirlwind storm that lifted  the tiles off the roof. 
Mr C wants UKI to cover the costs of repair, or to refund his insurance premiums.  UKI 
maintained its position  and so Mr C referred  his complaint to our service for review. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said that whilst  there  were  windy  
conditions present at the time Mr C said damage occurred, she didnt  think it was strong 
enough to damage a well maintained roof. She also said she was more persuaded the roof 
deteriorated over time and therefore  didnt think it was fair to conclude that damage was 
caused by a one-off storm event. 
She also said she wouldnt  be recommending UKI refunds Mr Cs premiums  as she felt the 
claim had been  fairly declined, and didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. As Mr C 
disagreed with our investigator, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr C, I agree with our investigators view for broadly the same reasons. I 
will now explain why. 
There is no issue taken that Mr Cs policy covers  damage to the roof if caused by a storm.  
But under the policys  general exclusions,  theres no cover if the loss or damage arises  due 
to buildings  not maintained in a good state of repair.  
When we consider cases about storm damage we ask three  questions: 
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage  is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause  of damage?
Ref: DRN56239202If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we would usually say a claim should 
succeed. But, if the answer to any of these questions is no, then we usually  wouldnt expect 
such a claim to succeed. 
Having weighed up all of the information  both Mr C and UKI has provided,  Im not persuaded 
that the answer to all three questions is yes in this case. 
Our investigator checked the weather reports from around the time Mr C said the damage 
occurred. She found a weather station  12 miles away recorded a peak gust of 41MPH and 
6.8 millimetres of rain per hour. She said our service wouldnt consider this recording 
reasonably meets the criteria of a storm. 
I carried out my own research and came  to the same findings as our investigator. Whilst Mr 
Cs policy doesnt specifically define a storm, Im minded to agree that the answer to the first 
question is no. This is because I wouldve  expected a well-maintained  roof to have been able 
to withstand these conditions. The wind speed  recorded falls below the criteria of what  Id 
reasonably say meets storm conditions.  
UKI provided  a report from its loss adjustor. The key information Ive considered and been 
persuaded by is: 
CAUSE
Weather records reveal wind speed  on the date given at 41 mph and a thunderstorm. The 
closest wind speed recording  is at London  City Airport, 12 miles away.
At our visit, we inspected  the barn from outside and inside. The barn rood has been repaired  
in numerous areas, and Mr C explained  that he had previously cemented  tiles back  on as 
they came  off.
You can see that a large proportion of the roof is showing signs  of age related deterioration.
Internally, the battens across large sections of the roof were in a greatly  deteriorated 
condition, consistent  with the buildings  age, and we advised the policyholder that the barn 
roof had been on borrowed time for some  years. 
POLICY LIABILITY / WARRANTIES
We do not consider  that the damage is a consequence of a Storm,  given  the poor pre-
existing condition of the 300 year old barn,  which was propped  up by the policyholder using  
an acro prop and steel beam some fifty years ago, and the evidence of numerous previous 
patch repairs and the hole at the ridge  prior to the incident date. 
This report from an expert is compelling. This,  along  with the weather records,  persuades 
me to agree that Mr Cs roof had pre-existing issues that were only highlighted by poor 
weather that I dont  agree meets the criteria of a storm. 
UKI said it checked Google Street View and found  Mr Cs roof had pre-existing  issues  prior 
to the date of loss. Ive taken a look at the images  that are available to me and Im in 
agreement with it. Based on what Ive seen, I couldnt reasonably conclude that Mr Cs roof 
was in a good, well-maintained condition prior to the loss. 
The roof was already bowing in places, which would suggest  the stability  of the roof had 
deteriorated. The hole in the roof was apparent prior to the claim being made, which also 
Ref: DRN56239203suggests there are existing issues there,  and tiles appear to be missing. So, I dont think UKI 
has acted unreasonably by declining the claim due to pre-existing damage. 
Mr C said UKI should refund the premiums he paid over the years  for the policy. He said this 
is because hes paid his premiums for many years and considers UKI should provide a 
contribution towards  the repair costs. But I disagree.  Given the reasons above, Im satisfied 
UKI has declined his claim fairly. 
Mr C has been insured with UKI for a number of perils since he incepted  the policy. That 
means should an insured peril arise, he wouldve been able to make  a claim. In this case, 
whilst storm damage is an insured peril, Im not persuaded this was the main  cause of the 
damage to his roof for the reasons set out above. So I wont be asking it to do anything  
more. 
Mr C asked UKI to pay him compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  to him. I 
appreciate this wouldve been  a distressing  and frustrating  time for Mr C. But because I think  
UKI declined  the claim fairly, and in line with the policy terms, I wont be asking it to pay Mr C 
anything here. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5623920