K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited. He says that he was given 
misleading information about the way he could access his pension  benefits when he reached 
retirement age.
background
Mr H contacted Aviva in May 2018.  He had reached his retirement age and wanted 
information about his pension entitlement from the pension he held with them.
Mr H had a Section 32 buy-out policy which included a Guaranteed Minimum Pension  
(GMP) and a Section 9 2(B) rights fund.  Mr H says that he wanted to take his tax free cash 
lump sum (TFCLS)  and arrange an income  drawdown policy.
Aviva sent a retirement  pack  on 11 May 2018 which set out three  options.  These  were:
Option A
You can use your total pension fund to shop around  for an annuity  from another company.
Make sure you tell them that you have  a GMP and S92B. Another  pension company may or
may not be able to offer you a higher retirement income than your GMP. Remember we
guarantee to provide your GMP from your GMP fund
Option B
You can leave your GMP fund with Aviva to make  up the shortfall on your GMP pension,  and
use your S92B and non GMP fund to shop around for an annuity with another company.
Option C
You use your total fund to buy an annuity with Aviva.
Mr H says that these options didnt set out that he would need to take out an annuity in order 
to access his TFCLS, or say that he could place the funds  in a drawdown  policy.
Mr H sought clarification from Aviva.  He relied  on a policy endorsement that suggested his 
pension did include the option of income drawdown.  Aviva responded and said:
on transfer to a personal pension plan the GMP portion of the fund would need to be 
converted to a protected  rights (PRC) equivalent.  As this is less than the current  transfer  
value of the policy . a full transfer to a personal pension would be permitted.
Mr H says that in reliance on this information, and in expectation of TFCLS he sold his 
property and paid a deposit  for a new property.
But Mr H says that he was then told that in order to access his TFCLS  he would have to take 
out an annuity or transfer his benefits which would mean he may lose the protected benefits.
Mr H didnt take his TFCLS and was forced  to borrow from family members to complete his 
house purchase.
Mr H made  a complaint  to Aviva. Aviva upheld the complaint in part and offered £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by it. In its final response it said:
Ref: DRN50681942The existing S32 product  does not have  a drawdown option/facility. Whilst a wash-through 
option for non-contracted  out benefits  could be available, in order to pay the scheme 
protected Tax Free Lump Sum, benefits  must be crystallised under the existing  policy. As 
soon as the benefits are crystallised,  the GMP and S92B rights must come  into payment as 
an annuity, this would  mean  only the balance non-GMP benefits would be available for 
drawdown. As previously  advised the only way to remove the GMP/S92B rights restrictions  
would be for a full fund transfer.
Mr H didnt accept and referred his complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She said that although the letter  
from Aviva  didnt say Mr H would have to take out an annuity  to access  his pension, all three 
options infer that he would need to take out an annuity, either  with Aviva or a different 
provider. She also said that this letter  didnt  refer to flexi-drawdown as an option as this 
wasnt an option available when he took the policy. The investigator also explained that the 
policy endorsement Mr H had referred  to wasnt relevant  as Aviva had explained that this 
endorsement didnt  apply to Mr Hs pension as it included GMP benefits. And finally, the 
investigator noted that when Mr H had spoken with Aviva, on 14 May 2018, he had said that 
he wanted to crystalize his policy, and didnt  want to take a drawdown. She didnt think  Mr H 
had been misled.
Relying on information  provided by Aviva  the investigator explained  that the current options  
for Mr H were  that:
He take all of his retirement  benefits at the same time as an annuity  (either with Aviva or 
with another provider)  along with his TFCLS;
He chooses  to take the non GMP fund separately to the GMP fund,  there would be a 
lower TFCLS and when  the GMP benefits  are taken at a later date,  no additional TFCLS 
would be payable;
Transfer to another  provider,  any protected  tax free lump sum will be lost and on 
crystallisation, the tax free lump sum will be 25 per cent;
Drawdown would only be available  if Mr H transfers his benefits to another  provider. 
Aviva does  not offer a drawdown product that can accept GMP or Section  9(2b) rights. 
This would  reduce  any tax free lump sum payable, once  transferred, to 25 per cent.
The investigator also explained why different figures for the TFCLS had been provided  as 
they were different depending on whether it was the first or second option  as set out above.
The investigator said that the offer of £250 was fair as, whilst Aviva could have been clearer  
about how TFCLS was accessed it hadnt misled  Mr H about the drawdown option.
Mr H didnt agree. He made a number of submissions,  in summary, he said:
He had contacted Aviva  as he had not heard  from them.
The letter he then received included three annuity options and no option for drawdown
There was a policy endorsement which said that his policy  did have a drawdown option.  
This was without any caveats.
On 21 May 2018 he was told that as the GMP portion of the fund was less than the 
transfer value  of the policy a full transfer  was available.  Based on this he decided a full 
drawdown option was his best choice and contacted his financial adviser.
He arranged the sale of his investments which have remained in cash  since  then.
Ref: DRN50681943Then in September 2018 his adviser was told that drawdown  was not an option  with this 
policy.
But in its response  to Mr Hs complaint, Aviva told his financial adviser that "As soon as 
the benefits are crystallised, the GMP and S92B rights must come into payment as an 
annuity, this would only mean  the non GMP benefits  would be available  for drawdown".
Mr H corresponded  directly with Aviva and it wrote to him in February 2020 when it said that 
there were two reasons why a drawdown  option  hadnt been referred to in its letter  of May 
2018.These were:
This depended on the level of the protected tax free cash  lump  (PTFC) sum and only 
applied if this were  more than 25 per cent. That would only be known after the A-day  
calculation was completed.  This didnt happen until August 2018.
And drawdown would  only be offered if an IFA was involved and Mr Hs IFA was told in 
October 2018.
And in March 2020 Aviva wrote again  and said his options were:
Transfer of the full fund with tax free lump sum being 25 per cent of the fund transferred 
and the GMP and S92B rights  restriction would be removed.  Mr H would lose his 
scheme protected tax free lump sum if this option is chosen.
Transfer out the non GMP benefits only. The tax free lump sum is restricted  to 25 per 
cent the non GMP  fund transferred.  No tax-free  cash would be payable  if the GMP is 
taken under the policy at a later date as an annuity. Mr H might not be able to transfer  
his GMP at a later date.
Mr H to take all benefits from the policy at the same time. With this option  he could take 
the scheme protected tax free lump  sum,  take the GMP and S92B rights annuity and 
move the balance of the fund to drawdown.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was been referred to me for a decision.
I considered the complaint and made a provisional  decision. I said that I wasnt  minded to 
uphold this complaint.  I said the offer Aviva made of £250 is fair in all the circumstances. Im 
not satisfied that Mr H was misled  to understand that a full drawdown  was available for this 
pension plan without  a transfer.  And I think his options were reasonably clear in November 
2018.
I reached this decision  based upon the following provisional findings:
I dont agree that Mr H had decided against drawdown when he spoke  with Aviva on 
14 May 2018.
But Mr Hs S32 plan doesnt include a full drawdown option. Such an option is not 
compatible with a S32 plan.
Mr H can take full drawdown, but only if he transfers his plan.
If he transfers, he will lose his GMP benefits  and this includes his PTFC (the 
enhanced TFC).
Im not satisfied that Mr H was misled so that he could reasonably have understood  
that a full drawdown may be available to him, along with the higher amount of PTFC.
Aviva  had made Mr Hs pension options sufficiently clear by November 2018.
My reasoning is as follows.
Ref: DRN50681944Mr H has a S32 buy-out  plan with Aviva. A plan like this had to guarantee that any GMP 
liability would be met at retirement. So it presented  less risk than transferring into a Personal  
Pension Plan. But there was still the risk that the overall pension  at retirement might be less 
than if Mr H had remained in the workplace pension he transferred from.
Because of Mr Hs pension contributions before April 2006, he also has an option to take an 
enhanced tax free cash lump sum of more than the normal 25 per cent, this is the PTFC.
In effect, the S32 is required to pay the guaranteed minimum  pension  (GMP) Mr H built up 
as a member of his former employers pension scheme which was contracted-out of SERPS 
and provided a GMP instead.  
In many cases this service sees,  the S32 plans are only paying the GMP with no other  
benefits because  the fund value  isnt enough  to cover the cost of the S32 benefits. The 
pension provider is required  to pay the GMP regardless of the fund value. Fortunately, thats 
not the case here.
But what  it does mean is that Aviva  must  pay the GMP as a guaranteed pension.  The GMP 
element of Mr Hs pension cant be paid in a form of drawdown. Drawdown in any form 
would not have been included as an option  in the original S32 plan as drawdown  would  not 
have been available at that time.  Mr H has referred  to a policy endorsement he received 
which seems to suggest that drawdown  may be an option on this plan. But I dont think that 
endorsement applies to this plan, or at least,  it cant apply to the GMP element of it. 
Ive considered the endorsement. There is a section of it that refers  to the GMP which  says:
Guaranteed Minimum Pension means  the entitlement to any pension in respect  of service 
prior to 6th April 1997, which  was contracted-out  under  the Scheme in accordance with 
section 14 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993. Such pensions shall increase in payment in 
accordance with the relevant requirements of the Pension Schemes Act 1993.
Although it isnt expressly stated, I think the implication is that Aviva  wont (or cant)  include 
GMP as a drawdown option. The regulations prevent  this anyway  Mr H would have to 
transfer away from a S32 to enter  drawdown  with the whole fund, and in doing so would lose 
his PTFC.
So essentially, Mr H has two options:
Transfer the whole fund and enter into a drawdown arrangement.  But that would 
involve giving up his guaranteed pension, GMP and the higher PTFC.
Take the S32 benefits, keep the PTFC  and then take the non-GMP benefits in the 
form of a drawdown (or other format).
What Mr H cant do, is take the PTFC and move  the whole of the remaining  fund into 
drawdown. That isnt an option thats  allowed and it never was an option. Im not satisfied 
that he was misled to understand  that this may have been  an option  for him, Ive not seen 
any evidence that Aviva expressly  told him that he could  do this. I dont think  Aviva actively 
misled him about this. Further,  I think it should  also have been apparent to a financial  
adviser that the restrictions  on S32/GMP payments meant that that this wasnt an option for 
Mr H. 
Ref: DRN50681945Whilst there has been some lack of clarity at times  about precisely  what  Mr H could do, I 
think that by November 2018 at latest, Aviva  had set out his options with sufficient clarity. 
These options were  set out to Mr H and to his IFA and were included  in its response to the 
complaint.
Essentially, the guaranteed benefits  payable from a S32 plan like this one arent compatible 
with flexible drawdown. The GMP must be paid in a manner prescribed by law and cant  be 
paid flexibly.
If Mr H doesnt  want  to take the GMP benefits  and prefers to move  the whole fund into 
drawdown he can do that. But it would involve a transfer of his pension and he will lose the 
PTFC (and only be able to take 25 per cent TFC).
So I said that I wasnt currently satisfied  that the complaint should  be upheld. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Aviva accepted the provisional findings, but Mr H didnt. He said, in summary:
The policy endorsement does not mention or refer to any limitation on the amount of 
drawdown. He relied upon this document along  with the email of 21 May 2018.
He was not told that full drawdown  was not available.
The options were  not sufficiently clear  by November 2018,  Aviva made contradictory 
statements after that.
In March 2020 Aviva said that it would only offer the drawdown  option under this type 
of policy  where there is scheme protected tax lump sum and an adviser  is involved.  
These criteria  were  met.
Drawdown was not an option in the original plan. The fact is that the plan was 
modified in 2006 by the endorsement.  Aviva have confirmed this.
There is no suggestion that the endorsement applies to this plan, it is a statement of 
fact as confirmed by Aviva.
Avivas contention is that the drawdown option only applies to non GMP element but 
there is no restriction to the GMP element.
If there  was a restriction it should have been  mentioned in this section.
If the options were  clear in November 2018, why was an investigator  able to reach 
different conclusions?
He had not been contacted about his pension entitlement  at the time of his retirement 
date.
There was a lack of customer service, ignored e-mails and telephone calls.
There were  contradictory statements made  by Aviva.
Incorrect information was provided  throughout the time of the complaint, including in 
December 2018 which included  incorrect figures.
The costs which Aviva agreed to pay havent been addressed.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  Mr H has said in 
response to my provisional  decision, but Ive read everything. I dont propose to respond to 
each and every point he has made. I think its more appropriate that I concentrate on the 
issues which I consider  to go to the crux of the complaint.
Ref: DRN50681946I can see that Mr H fundamentally  disagrees  with my provisional conclusions. That is 
unfortunate, but my role is to reach  an independent decision based on the evidence and 
submissions Ive considered.
I think the fundamental point is that I dont  agree  that Mr H was misled  into understanding 
that he could take his protected  tax-free  cash and move into full drawdown with this policy. 
Ive not seen any positive statement made by Aviva that could  reasonably have led Mr H to 
have this misunderstanding. It may be true that he wasnt  told that full drawdown wasnt an 
option, but that is different  to being  positively told that it was.
Ive acknowledged  that there has been some  inconsistency  in the information Aviva 
provided. But I remain satisfied that by November  2018 Aviva  were sufficiently clear about  
the options that were available to Mr H. I say this in the context that Mr H was taking 
professional advice and would need  to do so if he was to give up any of the guaranteed 
benefits under the policy.
I note what Mr H says about the endorsement, but I dont agree with his interpretation.  But in 
any event, I dont think the endorsement  ought  to have caused him to believe that full 
drawdown was available. None of the options  he was first given in May 2018  made  any 
reference to drawdown  at all. The email of 21 May 2018 he refers  to confirms that a full 
transfer would be available  due to the value of the fund. It doesnt  say that drawdown was 
available. Again, I reiterate that Ive not seen any positive  statement  from Aviva that ought to 
have misled him in the way that he says.
Mr H refers to Avivas  statement in March 2020 about the conditions for drawdown  and says 
these were met. But Im satisfied that this statement  is a reference to the wash-through  
drawdown option which was set out in November 2018 and so it must be considered in that 
context.
Mr H says that he didnt  hear from Aviva  before his retirement date. Aviva  says that it did 
send the normal  retirement packs.  Id expect Avivas  records  to be accurate about this, but it 
may be that the packs didnt reach  Mr H. Theres no way of knowing exactly what  happened 
with any certainty. Fortunately, Mr H did contact Aviva at the right time and so I dont think  
the receipt or non-receipt of the wake-up packs has any material  impact  on the decision Ive 
made here.
Mr H has referred  to an offer Aviva  made  in September 2018 to meet  his additional  costs  
caused by its delays. Aviva has been  questioned  about this. No offer was ever actually 
formulated other than the offer of £250 which  was made in November 2018. Aviva now 
maintains that offer is fair, and I agree.
Ref: DRN50681947my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I think the offer of £250 is fair. Aviva  should pay that sum to Mr 
H if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5068194