K820x#14complaint 
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt provide her with a 
home insurance policy document. As a result, she was unaware that wear and tear was 
excluded under the policy and a claim was turned down. 
background 
Mrs B holds a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA.  Following contact  from her water 
provider, Mrs B reported a potential  leak from a water pipe on her property.
A drainage specialist  was sent to look into the problem and - following an investigation, they 
confirmed they had discovered a leak. While  it had attempted a fix, it said this didnt work. It 
submitted a report to RSA and based on that report RSA declined the claim. It said the 
report found the pipe had deteriorated due to wear  and tear and this wasnt covered by   
Mrs Bs policy. 
Mrs B says she wasnt provided with the policy document  relating to the cover shed bought. 
So, she says she wasnt aware the policy didnt offer cover for wear  and tear.  She says that 
had she known the policy didnt cover wear  and tear, she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy.
RSA said it didnt know why the policy document hadnt been sent to Mrs B. But it issued her 
with £30 compensation to apologise  for the oversight  and confirmed a policy  document  
would be issued.     
Unhappy with RSAs  response,  Mrs B referred her complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt 
uphold the complaint. She thought that RSA had acted reasonably in turning down Mrs Bs 
claim based on the drainage specialists report and the policy exclusions. She also thought 
the £30 compensation for the policy documents not being  sent was fair.   
Mrs B reiterated that if she had received  the policy booklet, she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy as wear and tear wasnt covered. Our investigator considered this point further. But 
she didnt think that not receiving the documentation  altered things. She said that exclusions 
for wear and tear was a feature of most insurance  policies. Mrs B didnt agree, so the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I reached  the same overall  conclusions as the investigator. I appreciate that 
Mrs B will be disappointed,  so Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN53772822When making a claim its up to the policyholder  to show that she has suffered loss or 
damage due to a risk covered  in her policy. Here RSA established  that the leak was due to 
the mains water pipe suffering from wear  and tear. That was its experts view. So, in the 
absence of any other expert evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied that the damage was 
caused by wear and tear.  
Mrs Bs policy says:  
Uninsurable risks:  Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly  or 
indirectly caused by or resulting from: wear and tear  . or deterioration,  or anything that 
happens gradually over a period of time.  So, Im also satisfied that wear and tear is an 
exclusion under  Mrs Bs policy. 
We have to look at experts reports and the policy documents when deciding whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably. In this case  I think  it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the 
experts report and the exclusion within the policy when  looking at Mrs Bs claim. 
Mrs B has told us she didnt receive  the policy documents. From what  Ive seen its not clear  
if the documents were successfully sent or not. So, Ive thought carefully  about  this. But like 
our investigator, I think wear and tear is a commonplace exclusion in home insurance 
policies. So even  if Mrs B had received the documents and was aware  that wear and tear 
was excluded, I dont  think shed have found an alternative policy  which included this cover 
for a price  she was willing to pay. Overall, I think the £30 compensation RSA issued to Mrs B 
by way of an apology for not successfully sending the policy documents  to her sooner, is fair 
in the circumstances.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5377282