K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage in 1996  with Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading  as Halifax.  
They say a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy was mis-sold to them  at 
the same  time. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs L they didnt 
think the MPPI policy was mis-sold. Halifax has since offered to give Mr and Mrs L some  
money back for the commission  it got from selling them the MPPI. 
Mr and Mrs L still think the MPPI was mis-sold in the first place and asked for his complaint 
to be passed for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the MPPI being  
mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L.
These events took place  almost 23 years ago now, so I can understand that remembering 
what happened might  be difficult. However, although this was a joint mortgage, I can see 
that Mr L was the only person insured on the MPPI and Mrs L wasnt  named on the policy. 
Halifax sent us a copy of an application form Mr L signed in connection with buying the 
policy. As this was entitled  MORTGAGE REYPAYMENTS INSUREANCE APPLICATION.  
I think it would have  been clear enough  what the form was for.
I note Mr Ls details were entered on to the form as was the monthly  cost of the cover and 
the amount of monthly benefit that would have  been payable in the event of a successful 
claim. I also see that the original printed cost / benefit amounts appear  to have been altered 
by hand, essentially  lowering the monthly protection to £200 instead of the £300  originally 
laid out on the form.
I think this shows that there  was not only an initial discussion  about having MPPI  where  
Mr L agreed to take out a policy  but also a further  discussion about reducing the monthly 
premium, probably to fit in with his and Mrs Ls preferences. Mr L signed and dated this 
application form.
I also see that having applied, Mr L was given  a policy summary which  showed  who was 
covered, what was covered and the monthly  premium.
Mr and Mrs L say in their complaint that the interest rate was very high. But this cant be 
related to the MPPI,  because  this was a regular  premium where the cost was set out and 
paid monthly. There were no interest  charges involved  and I can only assume  Mr and Mrs L 
may be misunderstanding how the policy worked.
Ref: DRN52130032In summary,  what we have access to now shows that Mr L specifically asked for MPPI with 
his and Mrs Ls new mortgage borrowing. He signed an MPPI application form and all the 
paperwork shows he would have known such a policy had been set up in his name. 
In short,  I think he consented  to the policy.
Halifax accepts the MPPI  was recommended  to Mr and Mrs L, so it had a duty to make sure 
it was suitable  for them. Mr and Mrs L have been very clear  that they dont think  the policy 
was needed because Mr L had good  sickness protection  with his job already. 
I understand the point being made but Im afraid  this doesnt necessarily make  the MPPI  to 
be of no use. Mr L was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions 
we sometimes see in these policies. And at £9.96 per month, I think this would have been 
affordable. I also think Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  was secured against their home and so the 
consequences of not being  able to keep up payments  could have been serious. On the 
other hand, if there was a successful claim, the cover  they bought was payable  for up to 12 
months in the event  of Mr L being  unable  to work  or losing his job. This would have been  in 
addition to any other means  he and Mrs L already had in place at the time.
I think the policy was suitable.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  if they were told everything  they ought  to have been. But I think 
theres substantial evidence which shows the cost was set out for them and there  was 
information about who and what was covered. I think Mr and Mrs L had enough information 
to decide what  he wanted to do.
This means  Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs L. But its already  offered to pay back some  of the cost of the 
MPPI because: 
When the policy was sold,  it expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the MPPI  premium)  - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L 
about that. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc has basically  offered  to pay back the amount 
of commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52130033my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs L. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand this has already 
been offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213003