K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Hargreaves  Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) sold his 
shares at a lower price than he had instructed.
 
background
Mr J held an execution only account with HL. He placed an online stop loss order  on some  
shares, set at a limit of 3.5p. When the limit was triggered HL sold the shares. At the point of 
sale the shares were  at 3.355p.
Mr J says HL should  have sold the shares  at the stop loss limit of 3.5p. He says he should 
be compensated for the difference between the limit he set and the price  the shares were 
sold for.
HL say it was for Mr J to familiarise himself  with their terms and conditions, upon which they 
rely. They explain that once the limit is triggered an attempt  to sell will be made, but there is 
a risk that the market will have moved  by the time the trade is executed.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought HL had sold the shares  in line with 
their terms  and conditions  and that theyd made  the risks of implementing  a stop order clear. 
So she didnt think HL had done anything wrong. 
Mr J disagrees  with the view, so the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at HLs terms and conditions, which are set out online,  they say:
After the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you set we will attempt to place
your deal in the market.  However, share prices can change in seconds and if a share
price has moved by the time we attempt to place your deal it may not be executed at the
price you have set, or at all. 
They give the following  example:
If the bid price is lower  than your stop loss price when we attempt to place your deal,
we will continue to place  your deal at the lower price. In some  cases a share price that is
falling could gap,  for example moving  straight  from £1.20 to £0.90; if a stop price  was
set at £1.19 the shares would still be sold at £0.90.
HL further state  they do not accept  liability  for any losses caused  by delay in executing  the 
stop loss or if the stop loss order is executed  below  the set limit. They expressly  set out that 
customers should not use the service  if they are uncomfortable with it.
I consider that HL provided clear information about  the service and Ive seen  than a prompt 
to read the terms and conditions would have popped  up on the screen when Mr J set the 
stop order online. So Ive looked  to see what happened at the time. 
Ref: DRN50975982The stop loss order was set at 3.5p.  When the limit triggered, HL sold the shares at the 
available price, which was 3.355p.  I appreciate Mr J assumed that the trade would be 
executed at 3.5p,  but there  was nothing in the terms and conditions to say that this would be 
guaranteed.
I understand that Mr J feels strongly  about this matter, but having  reviewed the terms and 
conditions for the account and the steps taken by HL, I cant say they did anything wrong in 
executing Mr Js trade. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr J, but I wont be asking HL to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5097598