K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco Bank),  unfairly dealt with a 
claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
In early 2014, Mrs W was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as M, which  supplied  and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a sales meeting, Mrs W decided to go ahead  with a 
purchase of a solar  panel system and paid a £100 deposit to M using  her Tesco  Bank credit 
card. The outstanding balance was paid with using  a 10 year fixed  sum loan arranged by M 
and taken out in her husbands name. Mrs W has said that she was told that the system 
would make substantial  savings on her energy bills and pay for itself over an 8 year period 
through the feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments. However,  this hasnt happened.
In May 2017, Mrs W made  a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA, via her 
representative. She said that the promises made by M amounted  to misrepresentations.
When Mrs W hadnt heard anything further from Tesco Bank,  she referred her complaint to 
this service. Our service  got in touch  with Tesco Bank and it said it had written to Mrs Ws 
representative to ask for further information  to consider her claim.  Specifically, it said it had 
asked for:
a copy of the MCS certificate  that was provided when the solar panels were  installed,
copies of all FIT statements from installation  to date; and,
proof of how the remaining balance had been paid.
When it hadnt received  the information that it had asked for, Tesco  Bank closed the claim.  It 
transpired that the contact details for the representative had changed, and although Tesco  
Bank had been  corresponding with the representative with its new contact  details this hadnt 
happened with Mrs Ws claim.
In January 2018 our service provided  Tesco Bank  with a copy of the MCS certificate, copies 
of the FIT statements from August 2014  to March 2017 and confirmation that the balance for 
the solar panel  system had been  paid via a fixed sum loan agreement. This service heard 
nothing further  until we contacted Tesco Bank  in September 2019 asking for an update.  It 
said it was still waiting  for FIT statements and confirmation of how the balance had been 
paid. It asked for confirmation of how the balance  had been paid as it wanted to ensure that 
there hadnt been a duplicate claim made against another financial provider.
This service provided further information to Tesco Bank , including that Mrs W had moved  
home in June 2017 and settled the fixed  sum loan. With an aim to progress the matter our 
investigator also issued  her view of the claim.  She concluded that Tesco  Bank should have 
considered Mrs Ws claim under s75 and was satisfied  that the benefits of the solar  panel 
system had been  misrepresented.  
To put things right she recommended  that Tesco Bank pay Mrs W the difference  between  
what she had paid for the solar panels  and the estimated total savings and income  that she 
would have received over the 10 year fixed sum loan. She also recommended  that Tesco  
Bank pay Mrs W £100 for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of her s75 claim.
Ref: DRN50917022Tesco Bank didnt  accept our investigators  view as it didnt feel it should  pay £100  for trouble 
and upset as the reasons for the delays in handling the claim werent  solely its fault.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required  to determine this complaint on the basis of what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what  is fair and reasonable, Im 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  been  
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  s75 of the CCA, which provides protection  for 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mrs W paid part of the agreement through her credit card, Tesco Bank  agrees that s75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs W could claim against Tesco Bank   the 
creditor  for any misrepresentation or breach  of the contract by the supplier in the same 
way she could have  claimed against  the supplier  M. So, Ive taken s75 into account  when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
The FCA principles apply  to all authorise firms, including Tesco Bank.  Of particular 
relevance to this complaint is:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers  and treat them fairly
The complaint that this service is dealing with is Tesco  Banks decision not to uphold  Mrs 
Ws claim under s75 as it said it needed further  information. I have also considered whether 
Tesco Bank treated  Mrs W fairly  in dealing with her s75 claim. If I decide that it didnt, I will 
then go on to consider  the underlying s75 claim for misrepresentation of the benefits  of the 
solar panel  system.
Ref: DRN50917023Did Tesco Bank have  sufficient information  to have  considered the s75 claim?
Tesco Bank has said that it still needed FIT statements from Mrs W and confirmation that a 
duplicate claim hadnt been made against the fixed sum loan provider before it could 
consider Mrs Ws claim.
This service provided Tesco Bank with Mrs Ws FIT statements from August 2014 until 
March 2017 and that the balance for the solar  panels had been paid for with a fixed sum 
loan agreement in January 2018.
Tesco Bank has said that it required FIT statements from the date of installation, to be able 
to assess Mrs Ws claim. I dont  agree.  Im of the opinion  that, once it had been provided  
with the statement from August  2014  until 2017  it had sufficient information to consider Mrs 
Ws claim.  From theses FIT statements, alongside the other information that had been 
supplied when the claim was originally made in May 2017, Im satisfied that Tesco Bank  
should have been able to consider whether the benefits of the solar panel  system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs W i.e. would the system  pay for itself within 8 years  and was Mrs W 
making substantial  savings on her energy bills.
Ive also considered Tesco Banks position that it needed  to know whether a duplicate claim 
was being made against the loan provider. This was to ensure that Mrs W wasnt  
compensated twice,  if Tesco Bank found that the benefits of the solar panel system had 
been misrepresented.
Whilst I understand why Tesco Bank may have  chosen not to pay any redress  to Mrs W until 
it had confirmation  that a duplicate claim hadnt been made against the loan provider, Im of 
the view that it had enough  information  to consider whether the benefits of the solar  panels 
had been misrepresented  to Mrs W and should  have considered her claim.  
Having considered the above evidence, on balance I do not think Tesco  Bank acted fairly 
and reasonably when requesting further  information before it said it could  consider  Mrs Ws 
claim.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mrs W has said that M made a number of written and oral misrepresentations that induced  
her into entering the contract. This included that the solar panel system  would  significantly  
reduce her energy bills and that it would  pay for itself within 8 years by way of the FIT 
income.
Instead, Mrs W has said that there  were no significant savings made on her household  bills 
and the system wasnt going to pay for itself in 8 years.  Mrs W has since moved  home, and 
the solar panel  system has remained at her previous property.
Mrs W has been consistent  with her recollection of events of what she was told and subject 
to considering the other information  she was given at the time I have no reason to doubt her 
evidence.
Ive considered the marketing literature that was supplied when the claim was made in May 
2017. This has a number  of statements on it including,  but not limited to Never spend a 
penny and Save 50% on your energy bills. This appears  to guarantee that the amount of 
Ref: DRN50917024savings that can be achieved as a minimum of 50%,  and this is contrary  to what Mrs W says 
she had experienced. It also suggests that the system will pay for itself and Mrs W wouldnt 
have to contribute any money towards  its cost. Importantly, this doesnt provide  any 
evidence to undermine  Mrs Ws recollection  of what she was told. Instead, it supports her 
version of events.
The solar  panel  system  cost a total of £7,665,  and Mrs W has said that the salesperson told 
her that the system would pay for itself in 8 years. But based on the information  that has 
been provided it would take significantly longer  than that for the system to pay for itself. Im 
of the view that it was the misrepresentation made  by the salesperson  for M, of the savings  
that could be made  with the system and that it would pay for itself in 8 years, that induced 
Mrs W to enter into the contract.
Ive also taken into account the actions  taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(RECC) against M. My understanding is that the RECC  administers the renewable 
consumer energy Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated Ms conduct.  In September 2014, and later in November 2015, it 
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not 
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to essentially requiring members 
not to provide false or misleading information  to consumers and providing clear and accurate 
information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
Mrs W has also provided a statement made by the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) to the 
RECC about M in September 2015. CAB carried out its own analysis on around 300 cases 
were consumers had contacted  it for advice about M.
This statement raised a number of issues with Ms conduct, including  misleading marketing 
claims where the consumers were  told that the solar panels were  free and that the FIT 
payments would comfortably cover  the loan repayments on their finance deals.
Whilst I accept  that what happened  in respect  of the cases the RECC and CAB looked into 
may not have necessarily  happened in Mrs Ws case, the findings do suggest that there 
were conduct concerns  in the areas that related  to Mrs Ws complaint and at around the time 
that she was sold her solar panels.
Ive also considered the other documentation  that M wouldve presented  as part of its sales 
process. Although  I cannot say for certain that they were  used  in the case of Mrs W, and 
therefore conclude  that she would have  relied  on them  when entering  into the contract, these 
documents do refer to the self-funding aspect of the solar panel  system.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the benefits of the solar panels were  
misrepresented to Mrs W, and it was these misrepresentations  that induced her to enter into 
the contract.
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ref: DRN50917025Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to require Tesco  Bank to arrange  for 
the removal of the solar  panel system from the property. Notwithstanding the challenge  this 
would present as Mrs W has since moved  home and no longer  owns  the property, I dont 
think it would  be fair or proportionate to require  the removal of the solar panels.
The solar  panel  system  was misrepresented  to Mrs W as being  completely self-financing  
and M arranged a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement to pay for the outstanding balance  of 
the solar panels.  My understanding  is that this loan was settled when she moved home.
Taking this into account, Im of the view that Mrs W wouldve understood this to mean  that 
the solar would pay for itself, and therefore be self-funding, over 10 years. 
Ive thought about the fact that the subsequent loan arranged by M was taken out in Mrs Ws 
husbands name only and whether this means Tesco Bank  is only liable for the deposit Mrs 
W paid on her credit  card. I dont think it does. I consider the purchase  of the solar panel 
system to have been a joint purchase and that both Mrs W and her husband were intended 
to jointly  benefit  from the purchase.
Ive taken into account that Mrs W has since moved  home and whether this means  Tesco 
should limit the potential  income and savings  to only when Mrs W lived at the home where 
the solar panels  were  installed. Im not satisfied that this would provide a fair a reasonable 
outcome as I have  seen  no evidence that Mrs W was planning to move home when she 
entered into the contract with M, nor that she was led to believe that she could move the 
solar panels,  and any benefits  from them,  to a new home. So, I think  the fair outcome here is 
to put Mrs W in a position where the solar  panel  system is self-funding  over the 10 year term 
of the fixed sum loan agreement. 
In its simplest terms this means that Tesco Bank should calculate the potential income and 
savings to Mrs W, from the solar panel system, over the 10 year term of the loan and ensure 
that she pays no more  than this. If Mrs W has paid more than the potential  benefits, Tesco 
Bank should refund this to her with 8% simple  interest. 
To put things right, Tesco  Bank should use all the available FIT statements to calculate how 
many kWh of electricity were generated by the solar panels. It should then use the FIT 
scheme from then to calculate the potential savings and income to Mrs W over the 10 year 
term of the loan. According  to the MCS certificate, the solar panel system  was installed in 
May 2014 and at that time the FIT scheme paid a FIT tariff of 14.38p  per kWh and an Export 
tariff of 4.77p per kWh. 
The investigator thought that Tesco Bank  should  use a default electricity price of 15p per 
kWh and a self-consumption rate of 37% to calculate the potential energy  savings.  Im 
satisfied that these are fair.
In practice this means that Tesco Bank should  take the following steps to resolve this 
complaint:
1estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mrs W from the solar panels over the 
10 year term of the loan. Where  possible it should use Mrs Ws FIT statements and 
electricity bills to do this,
2calculate how much  has been paid towards  the solar  panels, including any deposit 
paid and all payments towards  the loan arranged by M,
Ref: DRN509170263it should minus the figure in 1. from the figure in 2. and pay Mrs W the difference;  
and,
4add 8% simple interest  to the figure in 3. from the dates  the payments were  made  
towards the loan to the date of settlement.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mrs W first 
contacted Tesco Bank that means  her claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
didnt happen  undoubtedly caused  her trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an 
award of £100  to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ws complaint should  be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, 
I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
1estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mrs W from the solar panels over the 
10 year term of the loan. Where  possible it should use Mrs Ws FIT statements and 
electricity bills to do this,
2calculate how much  has been paid towards  the solar  panels, including any deposit 
paid and all payments towards  the loan arranged by M,
3it should minus the figure in 1. from the figure in 2. and pay Mrs W the difference,
4add 8% simple interest* to the figure  in 3. from the dates the payments were  made  
towards the loan to the date of settlement; and,
5pay Mrs W £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mrs W a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN5091702