K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited has acted unfairly in 
charging her for damage to its car.
In addition she complains  about how it has behaved whilst asking her to pay the money it 
says she owes it.
background 
In November 2014 Miss N entered into a hire purchase agreement  with VWFS for a used 
car. At the time the agreement started the car had done 13,000 miles. The car was first 
registered in April 2011.
Miss N said VWFS wanted to charge her for bodywork  damage  and for damage to the tyres 
and rims. She agreed to pay for the bodywork  damage which  she says is minor. But she 
thought it unfair she should be asked to pay for the tyres.  In her opinion  the damage  to them,  
is due to a manufacturing issue. She agreed there was some wheel rim damage. However, 
she asked that VWFS put forward a reasonable price for dealing with this. She also wanted  
to know the actual price  of the repairs.
In addition, she asked  that VWFS  stop its debt recovery activities. She told us these had 
been carried out in an inappropriate manner.
VWFS suggested it was entitled, under  the terms of the hire purchase  agreement,  to charge 
Miss N for the damage.
Dissatisfied, Miss N came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ns complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Ns complaint. In the circumstances, our investigator concluded the damage 
went beyond fair wear and tear and on that basis VWFS ought  to reasonably be allowed to 
charge for it.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, Miss N didnt. In summary she gave us 
more detail about why she thought some of the damage should not be charged for, or if it 
should be, the cost should  be reduced. In particular she said I am confident  that an 
independent, expert re-furbisher  assessing  the wheel would come to the same conclusion as 
myself, and others,  that the damage  to the Wheel LHF was "clear" and capable of 
rectification, and therefore a charge of £36 for Wheel LHF would be reasonable.
Miss N asked that an ombudsman review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are  the key issues  here. 
Ref: DRN50399712Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
There seems  no dispute between the parties  that in some circumstances Miss N will be 
responsible for damage to VWFSs car. The parties  agree that is what their agreement  
provides for. 
Further, in particular, the agreement says that Miss N will be responsible for any damage  to 
or deterioration of the Vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with
the age and mileage of the Vehicle.
Miss Ns complaint appears to have become focused on the damage to the wheel LHF. 
When she first came  to us, she was complaining about the repairs  to all the tyres and the car 
rims. But now she seems to think that all the other charges relating to the wheels and rims 
are acceptable. Rather now,  Miss Ns stance seems to be, the level of damage or 
deterioration to the wheel  LHF is down to a manufacturing fault failing that her alternative 
argument seems to be, the damage  is not in excess of fair wear and tear. And if it is, the cost 
of the repair  is unreasonable. Ive taken a look at these  points.
Miss N has not put forward  any information that I find persuasive  that the wheel had a 
manufacturing fault. I doubt that she could have done the mileage she has done with 
apparently no difficulty  if this tyre or indeed any of the tyres,  had a manufacturing fault.
I looked at the photos and the description  of the damage. Ive not relied on the BVRLA 
guidance. This is because my understanding is that this guidance is relevant for new cars 
only. This was a used  car. Looking at the description  and photo of the damage,  the mileage 
done and the age of the car, I dont agree that this is merely fair wear  and tear. Indeed I can 
see why VWFS says this has to be replaced.
In addition Miss N points out that VWFS  wants  to charge her £36 for damage to some of the 
other wheels. She suggests this sets some  sort of precedent, and VWFS  should  be limited  to 
charging £36 for this repair  too. But the LHF wheel has significantly more damage than the 
other wheels  I dont agree that we are looking at like for like damage.  Therefore there is no 
reason why the cost for the repairs ought  to be like for like.
Miss N tells us that an expert re-furbisher would share her conclusion.  She hasnt though 
provided us with the opinion of an expert re-furbisher  whereas VWFS  has given us 
information from an industry expert about  the cost of repair.
Ive not got enough  here to suggest the cost for repair is way off. Neither do I need to see 
the actual cost of repair. I think  the damage  is likely to cause VWFS to experience  a loss 
when it comes to sell on the car, if it is not repaired. 
For all of these reasons, I think it fair and reasonable for VWFS to be able to ask Miss N to 
pay it for all the damage it wants to charge her for.
Ref: DRN50399713VWFS did not have to stop asking Miss N to pay it while we looked at the complaint. The 
parties have an agreement that allows  VWFS  to charge her as it has done, and that 
agreement was still ongoing even when the complaint came  to us. 
Miss N has not explained why she suggests that VWFS  have  acted unprofessionally in trying 
to recover the debt from her. I have seen letters from VWFSs debt recovery agents, which  
she sent us. I can see it is asking for payment.  But I dont see that the language or the tone 
of those letters is inappropriate. In the circumstances, I cant fairly  and reasonably  agree that 
VWFS has not behaved correctly when pursuing  Miss N for this debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5039971