K821x#15complaint
Mrs W and Mrs D, as daughters of the late Mr H and executrices of his estate, say the 
advice given by Intelligent Financial Advice Limited (IFAL) to their father  about switching his 
personal pensions  was unsuitable and resulted  in the loss of valuable death-in-service 
benefits provided by his employer.
background
Mr H was diagnosed  with cancer  in 2014. By the time he sought  advice from IFAL about his 
pension arrangements in 2017,  hed been unable  to work for some months and was 
recorded as being in receipt of statutory sick pay. A return to work was unlikely and his 
employer was considering an exit strategy  for him.
Mr H approached IFAL for advice  about  his pension  arrangements in August 2017.  It 
conducted a fact-find  into his objectives and circumstances and produced  a suitability report  
with recommendations.
Mr H was a member of a group personal pension (GPP) made available through  his 
employer and administered by Aviva (formerly Friends Life), this had a transfer  value of 
around £12,900. He also had personal pension policies with ReAssure with a total transfer 
value of around £65,700.
IFAL said Mr H should switch his pension funds to a Standard Life drawdown plan. It also 
said he should purchase its ongoing  financial advice service.  Mr H agreed, and his funds 
were sent from his former schemes  to the new arrangement by the end of September 2017.
Mr Hs health worsened and by November 2017  he was hospitalised again.  Sadly,  he 
passed away on 7 January 2018. Its of note that he was still an employee  at the time.
In finalising  Mr Hs affairs, his estate became concerned about the advice  IFAL  had given 
him. Because Mr H had switched out of the GPP  provided by his employer, his entitlement  to 
death-in-service benefits  had ended. It says had Mr H understood this, hed never have 
moved his funds. Mr H had yet to retire from his employment on ill-health or any other 
grounds.
Mr Hs estate found further problems with the new arrangement. For example, it believes the 
assessment of his risk outlook which found  him to have a medium appetite was wrong. And 
it questioned why he wouldve agreed  to higher  charges under the new arrangement.
IFAL said that when Mr H asked for advice, hed initially been interested  in taking  out an 
annuity. It advised him against this given  his circumstances. It says the arrangements it put 
in place ensured Mr H was able to pass on his pension  pot to his daughters.
IFAL says it cant be held responsible for Mr Hs failure to inform  it about  the death-in-service 
benefits he had. If hed done so this wouldve changed its advice. It says Mr Hs pension  
provider also failed  to let it know there  was a link to his life cover.
More generally, IFAL disagreed that its advice  had been unsuitable for Mr H given the 
information it had about his situation. It said the consolidation of his funds was clearly  a 
sensible idea. As was recommending flexible access  to his benefits.
Ref: DRN52643502The adjudicator recommended the complaint brought by the estate of Mr H should be 
upheld. IFAL disagreed but made  three offers over the following months to settle matters. Its 
final offer was for £40,000,  but this was rejected. So, the case  was passed to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision last month. IFAL didnt agree with my conclusions and 
raised a number of points  about the responsibility  of other parties  for what had happened, 
the suitability of its advice and matters  concerning  redress. Ill cover  these  matters  in this 
final decision. 
IFAL has identified other parties  as being  at least partially responsible for what happened  to 
Mr H. What it says in relation to the acts and omissions of other businesses and individuals, 
including the extent and impact of these and any resulting liabilities it incurs as a result,  may 
or may not be the case. But Im not considering  a complaint against  those  parties here. 
Indeed, I dont have the power to review matters concerning certain  businesses  where  these 
dont come within the ambit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
IFAL may decide to pursue other  parties  for any losses which  it believes it incurred flowing 
from this case, where it feels  others are responsible to some  degree for such  costs arising. 
Thats a matter for it to decide. And in this regard, insofar as the estate of Mr H seeks 
redress from any other party in relation to this matter, including those covered by The 
Pensions Ombudsman regime, it will need to cooperate with IFAL.  Theres no entitlement  to 
receive compensation twice for the same matter.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and argument concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not given  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of this case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by IFAL  for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must  adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard  to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like IFAL. As such,  I 
need to have regard to them in considering  this case.
Ref: DRN52643503In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
- Charges  - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive  than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer  lost benefits  in the switch  without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions  from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer  switched  into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment  reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
did IFAL meet its regulatory  obligations  when it provided advice to Mr H to switch his 
pension funds?
Mr H was 65 and divorced. He was employed  by a betting chain as manager of one of its 
shops. At the time of the advice he was living on about £400 per week sick pay. He was also 
in receipt of a small Canada Life annuity. His monthly outgoings,  excluding  food and leisure  
were about  £300.  Mr H was a basic rate taxpayer.
Mr H owned his home, had savings of around  £50,000 and some company shares. He didnt 
have any debts. And he didnt have any financial dependants.
Mr H was a member of a GPP made available through  his employer and administered by 
Aviva, this had a transfer value of around  £12,900. He also had personal pension  policies 
with ReAssure with a total transfer  value of around £65,700.
IFAL recommended Mr H should switch  his pension funds to a Standard  Life drawdown plan. 
It also said he should purchase ongoing advice  with an active  wealth management service. 
Mr H agreed, and his funds were sent from his former schemes to the new arrangement by 
the end of September 2017.
At the heart  of this complaint is the loss of Mr Hs death-in-service benefits, which happened 
as soon as he ceased to be an active member  of the GPP. This matter  is not straight-
forward to unpick. We have evidence from IFAL which includes information provided by Mr H 
and his brother;  evidence from his daughters, which includes medical notes and 
contemporaneous texts between family members and a colleague of Mr H; and evidence 
from his employer about its involvement.
From what  Ive seen, I think the parties  to this complaint have acted in good  faith.  I think  the 
differences between  the accounts Ive been  given are due to a number of factors including  
what each understood about Mr Hs actual  situation,  which wouldve been driven in large 
part by what  he chose  or was able to share  with them about  the very difficult  position he was 
in.
I can see that the fact-find completed  for Mr H by IFAL on 11 August 2017 had a prompt for 
the adviser to ask if he had any existing protection policies, including  death in service  
benefits. I cant know how that question was asked,  and whether it wouldve prompted Mr H 
Ref: DRN52643504to remember the death-in-service cover he had through  his employer. But the form records  
his response was that he didnt have any life cover.
I can also see that IFAL wrote to Aviva  in August 2017 as the administrator  of the GPP Mr H 
was a member of. It sought  information about his policy, including  whether there  was linked 
life cover.  It was told there was no such benefit associated  with the plan.
IFAL later raised a complaint with Mr Hs pension administrator  in April 2018 about what  had 
happened. What it said in its response of June  2018  is helpful in understanding  the situation:
We do not oversee,  administer, or have any control  over death in service  benefits. Only the 
pension benefit  provided by the employer and administered by us. If the employer decided 
they wouldn't offer life cover without continuing pension  contributions,  then they should be 
detailing that in their paperwork with the member.
We would not be able to tell a member if they transferred they would lose their benefits, 
because the benefits are not provided  by us and we therefore would not be privy to any 
terms stipulated by the employer themselves.
IFAL approached Mr Hs employer directly for more information. It confirmed the 
arrangement it had with the administrator of his GPP. And it provided  a copy of a letter it had 
sent to Mr H in March 2014  about his life assurance cover. It set out details  of the benefits 
and the circumstances in which cover would  end, including if he ceased  to be an active  
member of the GPP.
In responding  to IFALs further request for information about  what had happened,  in May 
2019 Mr Hs employer provided more details, which Ive reproduced here because it is 
important context. The text below sets out three  of the questions  posed by IFAL  followed by 
the response of Mr Hs employer (bolding is my emphasis):
what specific  instructions have been provided  in relation to the link between membership 
of the [GPP] and the Life Assurance Scheme,  i.e. how were Friends  Life [now Aviva] 
informed that the two schemes are linked?
No instructions have been given to Friends Life in relation to the entitlement of 
employees to death in service benefits under the Life Assurance Scheme. As noted  
above, Friends Life is engaged solely as administrator  in relation to the [GPP] and not in 
relation to the Life Assurance Scheme.
please explain  why it Is deemed  unnecessary  by the Company  to ensure that Friends  Life 
have not been made  aware  of this arrangement?
The supply of information pertaining to an employee's  entitlement  to benefits  under 
the Life Assurance Scheme is the responsibility  of the Company (as principal employer 
and trustee of the Life Assurance Scheme). The Company provided Mr H with sufficient 
information within the Explanatory Literature to enable Mr H to make an informed choice as 
to the impact  leaving active membership of the [GPP] would have on his continued eligibility  
to benefits under the Life Assurance Scheme. Any queries addressed  to Friends  Life in its 
capacity as administrator  to the [GPP] naturally could not have been  answered insofar as 
they related to [Mr H's] membership of the Life Assurance Scheme.
Do the trustees of the death-in-service  scheme have any discretion  regarding paying death 
benefits to a member  who has died whilst  still in [its] employment but who has inadvertently  
transferred from the Pension Plan?
Ref: DRN52643505The Company  may agree to vary the Entry Requirements for any Eligible  Employee,  by 
varying the Explanatory  Literature. However, this was not done  in the case  of [Mr H] (nor has 
it been done in any other  case to date). This being the case, the death  of such an individual 
would not be covered  by the terms of the insurance  policy. Absent any payment from the 
Insurer, the Trustee is unable to pay any death  in service lump sum. For the avoidance of 
doubt, the Company has already approached  Aviva  in relation  to whether Aviva would agree 
to pay the claim in the case of Mr H, but that request has been refused
Mr Hs employer has made  clear  in these communications its belief that Aviva  wasnt  
responsible for any failing in alerting IFAL to the fact of Mr Hs life cover.  It wasnt  in a 
position to do so. It confirms the conditionality  between being an active  member of its GPP 
and membership of its separate death-in-service scheme. It accepted  it was responsible  for 
ensuring that Mr H was aware  of the terms and conditions of the life assurance policy  he 
was a beneficiary of. And it asserts that it met these responsibilities.
I note Mr Hs employer says that it couldve agreed to vary the entry requirements for an 
eligible employee,  so it indicates some latitude.  I can see that it wrote  to Mr H in December 
2017 confirming  that following his opting  out of the GPP, hed no longer benefit  from life 
assurance cover. In normal  circumstances, this mayve presented an opportunity for him to 
have recognised the problem and for him to seek readmission  to the scheme?
But, as we know, there were exceptional  circumstances here.  Mr H was admitted to hospital 
for the last time in November  2017 when he was extremely ill, passing  away  in early  January 
2018. So, its highly unlikely he ever saw his employers communication or was in a position 
to grapple with the issue at that point.  Indeed,  his employer shouldve  been aware this was 
the case.
I say this because  this Service sought  information  from Mr Hs employer about how it dealt 
with his situation, given that hed been ill for some time during  2017. It told us:
Welfare meetings [took place] between Line Manager & Mr H to discuss prospects of return  
to work. Mr H expressed wishes to retire  due to his ill health.  [Mr H was] advised by 
company to seek medical advice from GP to confirm ill health  view, further advised to speak 
to company payroll/pension  department to gain guidance on pension.
GP letter received  10 October 2017  confirming  Mr H wishes to retire due to ill health.  [Mr 
Hs] line manager was contacted by the Employee Relations team on 25 November as we 
had not heard further in respect of [Mr Hs] intentions. Line manager advised  that they 
understood that Mr H had been hospitalised.  The line manager  followed up with the 
Employee Relations team  on 29 November to advise that they had been  told Mr H was 
gravely ill. Ultimately, no agreement was reached  prior to [Mr Hs] death.
The response of Mr Hs employer gives rise to many legitimate questions. But I cant join 
third parties to a complaint or compel them  to provide information. And as Ive already  
mentioned, its not within my ambit to consider complaints against other  parties that are 
outside of this Services jurisdiction. I have to consider the complaint  in front of me brought 
against IFAL and the role it played in what happened to him.
IFAL has said that had it been  informed  about  the death-in-service  benefit Mr H was entitled 
to then it wouldve  taken  that into account.  It says it wouldnt have advised him to switch out 
of active membership of the GPP.  I have no reason to doubt what it says, it wouldve been 
irrational for it to have  acted otherwise.
Ref: DRN52643506That said,  IFAL knew Mr H worked  for a significant national  employer. It wouldve been  more 
usual than not for there to have been some  form of death-in-service cover. And such  
provision isnt always linked to pension schemes. Given what it knew  about Mr Hs particular  
health situation, it was important for it to get to the bottom of his circumstances.  From what 
Ive seen in the fact-find and suitability report,  Im not satisfied it did enough  in this regard.
IFAL says it went above and beyond in trying to understand Mr Hs situation,  for example by 
contacting his pension administrators. But in considering the advice and service IFAL 
provided, I think there are a number of problems with what  it did. Ill explain why.
In September  2018 it produced a suitability report for Mr H. It recorded there was some 
uncertainty about the impact of his sick pay on his state pension entitlement:
You will be entitled to commence your state  pension scheme - estimated 8,060  p.a. but 
you are unsure how this will affect  your sickness entitlement. Therefore, your income from 
the Friends Life and ReAssure pensions can be deferred and, then commenced when you 
have clarified the state benefits  i.e. if you have your benefits cut-you  will have to commence 
your pension income. If your benefits are not cut - you can defer commencing the pension 
income until you need to boost  your spending
And I can see in the first section of the suitability report IFAL said:
We have advised you not to commence your pension income until your state benefit 
entitlement has been clarified now that you have reached age 65. Please  let me know what 
you are entitled to receive as soon as possible.
I also note that IFALs adviser recently told this Service:
I also advised Mr H to defer  his actual retirement until [his employer] made a decision on 
making him redundant on ill health  grounds.
The problem for IFAL is that its advice about Mr H not taking an income  from his Friends  
Life and ReAssure pensions until the position with his benefits had been clarified was 
ambiguous. For example,  was it talking about the income derived from these pots after 
switching? Or was it saying he should hold off from switching his pension  until the position 
with his benefits was clarified? It hasnt been  able to clarify these matters for me.
And in IFALs recollection of advising Mr H not to retire until his employer had agreed his exit 
package, its again silent about  any linkage to the timing of his pension  switch. Indeed, this 
particular advice wasnt in the suitability report.
Crucially, IFALs recommendations  to Mr H were narrow.  That he should switch his pension 
funds to a Standard Life drawdown plan and purchase ongoing advice with an active wealth 
management service.
Mr H agreed to and acted on its recommendations. But there were no recommendations 
about the timing  of when this should happen, which IFAL has itself acknowledged was an 
important factor in this case. I think it shouldve shown more care and skill here. Perhaps this 
is why it refers in one of the questions it posed to his employer about  the inadvertent transfer 
of Mr Hs pension.
IFAL knew Mr H had cancer and was off work  receiving sick pay. It knew there were ongoing 
discussions between Mr H and his employer about  his possible ill-health retirement. Mrs W 
Ref: DRN52643507told us about how poorly her father  was around the time he was receiving advice from IFAL, 
including that he was confused. Shes  provided  various contemporaneous pieces of 
information to evidence her account.  
For example, Ive seen  a hospital report dated  16 August 2017,  just 5 days after IFAL  had 
conducted the fact-find with Mr H, which says his cancer had progressed further and that 
treatment options  were limited. A decision had been taken to stop his medicines  because  
they werent working. And there was a do not resuscitate direction on his notes.  Further, the 
report notes that Mr H wasnt  able to understand, retain or weigh up this information.
Mrs W says in light of her fathers faltering health:
I knew  it was imperative that I spoke  to [IFALs adviser] as soon as my dad had visited  him. 
During the phone  call I explained to [the adviser]  what the hospital had said, and that they 
were just offering  end of life care at that point.  I even said that we believed  he wouldnt make  
Christmas (he passed away  13 days after Christmas). We needed to know  that if my dads 
money stayed where it was, it would be easily accessible at the time of his death.
Mr H had told IFAL on 11 August 2017  that he expected to recover  from his illness. And I 
understand that Mr Hs brother has said that as far as he was aware  Mr H hadnt received a 
terminal diagnosis at the time of the advice.  But IFAL knew  he was seriously  ill with cancer  
and that one of his key concerns was to ensure in the event of his passing  his funds would 
be available for his daughters. It shouldve already been sensitive to the situation.
And following the conversation IFAL had with Mrs W, it had urgent cause to review its 
approach to ensure it was working in Mr Hs best interests. But Ive not seen any evidence 
that it held further  discussions  with him to go over things. The suitability report  dated 22 
September reflects the fact-find from several weeks earlier. IFAL  hasnt  done  enough  to 
satisfy me that in its dealings with Mr H it got to grips with his real situation or vulnerabilities. 
So, I dont think in the circumstances it acted with due care and diligence.
Instead IFAL recommended Mr H switch  his pension arrangements  without  clear  and 
effective recommendations concerning when this transaction would best be carried  out, 
knowing that there were  still many  lose ends to tie up. I cant see a strong argument for the 
switch at the time it happened, which as we know had the effect  of ending Mr Hs linked life 
cover (albeit I accept that wasnt understood).
At this point its helpful to review Mr Hs objectives  for his pension arrangements  and certain  
other aspects of his circumstances. The suitability  report said he wanted:
to retain the pension fund as an investment asset  that can potentially be passed on to 
yourfamily if you do not exhaust the value  during  your lifetime.
the flexibility to be able to vary the amount you withdraw during your retirement including  
the option to take out capital and income.
Considering the first of these objectives,  IFAL has told us that Mr Hs brother can confirm  
that he was considering buying an annuity.  It says its advice was important in ensuring that 
didnt happen.  Although  Mr Hs estate has expressed some scepticism in this regard, its a 
fact he already had a small annuity.  So, Ive no reason to believe he was unfamiliar with 
such an arrangement. And if hed taken an annuity this couldve restricted what was 
available to leave  to his family in the event of his passing.
Ref: DRN52643508Nevertheless, there were  many options open to Mr H for what he could do with his pension  
funds. One of these  was to remain invested  where he was for the time being. Afterall, while 
there were concerns about  his health, actually his existing policies wouldve paid out to 
nominated individuals in the event of his passing.
So, Mr Hs first objective was covered in the immediate term. There was no rush. There was 
time to sort things out with his employer, indeed the terms on which  he left employment 
mayve been an important consideration to future pension planning.
Mr Hs second objective was about ensuring flexibility  with his new arrangement.  Its the 
case that in order  to take benefits from his then ReAssure  pension plans, he had to transfer  
policies, even if he stayed  with the same  provider. But he didnt  need  to switch his GPP 
arrangement at all because it already provided flexible access.
Even if thered  been a good  argument for the quick consolidation  of Mr Hs various pension 
plans by switching  all his funds into a new arrangement - which I havent seen - we know 
from the fact-find that Mr H wasnt in immediate need of income.
Remember his monthly income was around £1650 and his outgoings over the same period 
were recorded as £300 (excluding food and leisure costs, which werent quantified).  And in 
discounting the option of taking an annuity, IFAL  noted he could afford to take the risk 
because he wasnt reliant on the income it would generate  he had other cash and savings 
sufficient to cover regular bills and living expenses.
Its arguable a better strategy for Mr H when he came to need  to supplement  his income 
wouldve been to have utilised some of his significant savings first, which were likely  earning 
very limited interest. And he couldve left his pension plans, growing  with returns on 
investments.
The value of Mr Hs pension pot was eroded as a result of the new arrangement  
recommended by IFAL,  at least in the short-run because:
-By switching his pension when he did Mr H was opting out of his GPP. That meant 
he would  no longer be making contributions  to his pension,  on which he was 
receiving tax relief. And he would  no longer  receive employer contributions. I accept 
the amounts involved here were modest  and had Mr H survived, they were  likely to 
have continued  for only a few more months, nevertheless some additional value 
couldve continued to accrue.
-The new arrangement, which included a proactive quarterly review of his pension 
funds, was more  expensive than his former pension plans. Its arguable  given the 
size of Mr Hs pot, his experience and risk appetite and capacity, this enhanced 
service was unnecessary.
-His funds were  left in cash,  whereas  under his former arrangements his money was 
invested.
So, IFAL  hasnt done enough to show that Mr H was better off as a result  of switching his 
pension plan funds  when he did. It hasnt shown that in doing so the new arrangement  was 
more effective in meeting  his objectives  at that time. It hasnt  provided  a good rationale  for its 
recommendations to switch his pension provisions. So, it follows  that I dont think  its advice 
was suitable.
What was the impact  of IFALs failings?
Ref: DRN52643509IFAL told us that if it had known about the death-in-service benefit  Mr H was entitled to then 
it wouldnt have advised him to switch  out of active membership  of the GPP. I think  this is 
more likely than not to have been  the case. IFAL says it took reasonable steps  to find out 
about his provisions, asking Mr H directly and seeking information from his pension  
administrator. But Ive found  that in the circumstances it shouldve done  more due diligence.
And had IFAL advised Mr H appropriately,  it wouldve recommended that he leave  his 
pension plans where they were, at least until his employment and ill-health retirement 
situation had been settled. By default,  this wouldve meant he wouldnt have lost his death-
in-service benefits.
But for IFALs failings Mr Hs daughters wouldve  received  a death-in-service  payment. Its 
noted that he was receiving sick pay at the time and this needs to be taken into account  in 
any redress. I can confirm his employer  has told this Service the sum payable to Mr H 
wouldve been about £95,000.  It may of course  make further enquiries should it wish.  The 
purpose of any award is to put complainants back in the position they wouldve been in, not 
to deliver betterment.
Theres been a consequential loss as a result of IFALs actions. And theres been a financial 
loss to Mr Hs pension  pot as a result  of the unsuitable advice he received.
IFAL has previously made a substantial  offer to Mr Hs estate of £40,000 in order  to settle 
matters. It told us the offers were made on a without prejudice  basis,  its intention being  to try 
and settle the claim sooner rather than later on a commercial basis.  While it asserts  this 
didnt represent  any admission of fault on its part, it indicates to me a significant 
acknowledgement of the impact of its role in this case.
Taking all of these matters together, I think its reasonable  to require IFAL to meet the total 
value of the death-in-service benefit Mr H was due. This is in addition  to the potential losses  
Ive identified in Mr Hs pension pot as a result of its unsuitable advice to switch  provider.
IFAL may decide to pursue other  parties  for any losses which  it believes it incurred flowing 
from this case, where it feels  others are responsible to some  degree for such  costs arising. 
Thats a matter for it to decide. And in this regard, it will be a condition of acceptance of my 
decision that the estate of Mr H will need  to cooperate  with IFAL in pursuing  this matter with 
other parties, with any further redress flowing to IFAL, since  it will already  have  made good 
its losses and those  of Mrs W and Mrs D, as appropriate.
Putting things  right
Im upholding this complaint. In assessing  what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put 
Mrs W, Mrs D and Mr Hs estate,  as appropriate,  as close as possible to the position  they 
wouldve been in had the advice Mr H received about his pension arrangements been 
suitable. So, Ill require  Intelligent Financial Advice  Limited to put things  right in the following 
way. 
IFAL should obtain the notional value of Mr Hs ReAssure and Aviva GPP pension  plans, as 
at the date of calculation  or if the funds have been  utilised,  at that point. So, assuming he 
wouldve remained invested  in the same funds  and he hadnt switched from his personal 
pension plans.
Ref: DRN526435010If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional valuations, then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index should be used  as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy 
for the type of return that couldve  been  achieved if Mr Hs pension had remained invested in 
his previous plans.
I can see that Mr H wouldve continued to receive  contributions from his employer had he not 
opted out (his own contributions after 13 August have been  refunded).  So, it will need to 
make good  these employer payments. I dont think he made any other  contributions to his 
plans or made any withdrawals. After confirming the detailed  position, the value  IFAL  
obtains, or the calculations it makes should assume these adjustments  would still have 
occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Hs 
former personal pension  plans and the value of his new arrangement  at the date of 
calculation (or at the point his funds  were utilised),  including any investments and cash  held, 
will be part of the financial loss that IFAL needs  to redress.
This methodology should account  for differences between the fees and charges Mr H 
wouldve incurred under his former plans compared to those he incurred  through  the 
arrangements recommended by IFAL. I understand that all of the fees were taken from his 
pension funds, so a separate calculation shouldnt be necessary.
In addition, in line with the conditions  of Mr Hs employer death-in-service  scheme , it should  
calculate the payment due had he remained a member of the scheme. To this sum it should 
add interest at 8% simple per annum. Income  tax may be due on this interest.  If IFAL  
deducts tax it should  provide the estate of Mr H with a tax certificate.
IFAL should provide details of the calculations to the estate of Mr H in a clear, simple  format.
IFAL should also pay Mrs W and Mrs D £250  in recognition of the things it got wrong in 
advising their father  about his pension arrangements, which  has caused distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint.  And I require Intelligent  
Financial Advice Limited to put things right by paying the compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W and Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5264350