K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them five payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI policies in 1994,  1997, 2009 (two) and 2010. Each sale was in 
one of the banks branches. The policies were  in Mr Bs sole name and gave him protection  
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  They  paid a monthly  amount for the PPI sold 
in 1994 and 1997 and for one of the 2009 policies. These were taken out at the same time 
as they were applying  for mortgages.  
The banks evidence  shows  no premiums  were charged for the second policy sold in 2009  or 
for the 2010 policy.  Mr and Mrs B have provided no evidence to the contrary, so I will make 
no further comment on those sales as it seems there is no possible financial loss to 
consider. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how Halifax  sold PPI.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs B had to agree to take it 
out. Mr B says on each  occasion they were  told they had to take out PPI to get the 
mortgage. 
Halifax cant provide  any paperwork  from the 1994  sale but thats not unreasonable as it was 
so long ago. I cant know what  was said at the time of the sale, but Ive considered  
Mr Bs comments carefully. I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and 
how that might affect what he recalls.  Without  stronger evidence  I cant  fairly conclude  
uphold the complaint on this point.
In 1997 Mr B signed to confirm he wanted to take out PPI on their mortgage  application 
form. The form said we recommend you consider  PPI which I dont  think could reasonably  
have led Mr and Mrs B to think it was mandatory. Mr B then completed a separate  PPI 
application form, answering a number of questions to confirm  his eligibility. The letter Mr and 
Mrs B received after their meeting in 2009  starts Thank you for choosing optional  mortgage 
repayment cover  which suggests  to me that Mr and Mrs B were given a choice.  The letter 
confirms that the bank  had identified they needed  the cover  and they had accepted its 
recommendation. Their  2009 mortgage offer also said You do not need  to buy any 
insurance through Halifax and confirmed only buildings insurance was a condition of the 
mortgage. 
Ref: DRN52643732So I think Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs B in 1997 and 2009 that the PPI was optional  
and they chose to take it out for Mr B.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B for Mr B, so it had to make  sure it was 
suitable. I think it seems to have been  right for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances in each  of the three years. He was entitled to some sick pay from his 
employer(s) but the PPI would  have  paid out in addition  to his work  benefits and for up to 24 
months (in 1994) or 12 months (in 1997 and 2009)  for all accident and sickness claims. It 
gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover, which would have allowed him to protect  any 
lump sum redundancy payment giving increased  financial security.  
I can see from their 1997 mortgage application  they had savings worth  less than £1,000  at 
that time.  The PPI would have allowed them to use their savings to cover other living  costs  
whilst Mr B wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. They told us they 
had no savings at the time of the other  sales. On each occasion, Mr and Mrs B were 
borrowing quite large sums of money over a long period, secured against their home. So the 
effects of not keeping  up with the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for them  if Mr B was sick, had an accident or lost his 
job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know for each sale when the cost was made clear, but the PPI 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  And Mr B doesnt appear to have  been  
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  their decisions.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B in 
relation to the 1994 and 1997 sale. But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs B because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  before Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance  in 
March 2010. It has now agreed to pay back  any commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium after Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance  - and I 
think that is fair in this case.
With regards the 2009  sale Halifax has more recently offered to give Mr and Mrs B back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Halifax will make 
arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs B this now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN52643733But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums from the 
1994 and 1997 sales. And it has offered to give back  some of the cost of the PPI sold in 
2009. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5264373