K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) acted unfairly in taking legal 
action to possess  her property, on which it has a mortgage.
background
Miss S took out a residential mortgage  with Halifax in 2005. The mortgage  fell into arrears in 
2014. Miss S says this is because the person living  in the property stopped  making 
payments to the mortgage account.  Miss S says she didnt  know  about the arrears or that 
Halifax had started legal action.
Miss S says she found  out in 2016  about the arrears and that there was damage to the 
property from a water leak. Shes  been trying to sort this out with the insurers  and says the 
arrears will be cleared  when the insurer pays her claim. Shes also been unwell. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said no 
payments had been made to the mortgage  account  since mid 2014.  It wasnt wrong for 
Halifax to write to the property address: it didnt know Miss S had let the property  in breach 
of the mortgage  terms. The investigator said Halifax had started possession proceedings as 
a last resort. If the insurers  did make  a payment to Miss S, she could use this to repay  the 
mortgage arrears. Halifax  didnt have to wait and see if this happened.
Miss S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss S has explained her complaint  and the background  to it in detail. We provide an 
informal dispute resolution service. Consistent  with this, while Ive read and considered  what  
Miss S has said, I wont comment in my decision  on each of the issues shes raised. Ive 
made findings on issues at the heart  of this complaint or where doing so helps to explain 
how I reached my decision. 
was the mortgage account  in arrears?
Halifax says that by mid 2018 there were arrears of over £50,000  on Miss Ss mortgage 
account and no payments  had been made to the account since mid 2014. Miss S hasnt 
disputed this or provided evidence that shes made any payments since  mid 2014.  
was it fair to treat the occupation of the property by a third party as an unauthorised  
tenancy?
Miss S took out a residential mortgage.  She says she didnt live there herself.  She says 
another person lived at the property on the basis he would pay all outgoings related to the 
property, including  mortgage payments. Miss S says this person let the property  to others 
Ref: DRN51642942without her knowledge. So, whether or not Miss S knew about it, the property was let out 
without consent  from Halifax  as required by the terms of the mortgage.
I think it was reasonable  for Halifax to treat the occupation of the property as an 
unauthorised tenancy  and apply  a higher interest  rate in accordance with the mortgage 
terms and conditions.
should Halifax wait for Miss Ss insurance  claim to be resolved?
Miss S is pursuing an insurance claim for water damage to the property. I dont know  if her 
claim will be successful,  when it will be finally resolved or if any payment will be enough to 
clear her mortgage arrears. 
Given the uncertainty of the outcome, I dont  think its reasonable to require  Halifax  to put 
recovery action on hold pending the outcome of Miss Ss insurance claim. 
Did Halifax  make reasonable efforts to agree a repayment arrangement?
Halifax and its solicitors  wrote to Miss S about  the arrears before re-starting legal  action in 
early 2018.  Halifax  contacted  Miss S by phone and its notes show  there  were  some 
discussions about the account  in 2017, although  this didnt result in a repayment 
arrangement being  agreed.  Halifaxs solicitors  wrote to Miss S as follows  in May 2018:
Repossession is always a last resort therefore  if you have proposals to repay  the arrears 
within the remaining  mortgage term, and are able to service the contractual instalment, 
and can provide evidence of affordability,  please provide this to our office and we will take 
instructions in respect of the same.  We enclose an income and expenditure form for your 
completion should you wish to put forward an offer.
Halifax wrote  to Miss S in July 2018 saying a field agent would visit to discuss  the situation 
and see if there was any support it could offer to avoid possession. It said if Miss S was able 
to make a payment  to clear the arrears she should  get in touch. This was sent to Miss Ss 
correspondence address, as shed  requested.
Miss S says she offered a plan,  in that she made an application for government help with her 
mortgage interest and intends to pay the arrears from her insurance  claim. However, it 
seems her application for help with her mortgage  interest was unsuccessful.  And Ive already 
said I dont think its reasonable to require Halifax to await the outcome of Miss Ss insurance 
claim. 
I think Halifax made Miss S aware  that possession action can be stopped if she can offer a 
credible plan to pay the arrears. Miss S says she hasnt been  in contact with Halifax  about a 
repayment arrangement. She hasnt provided  evidence that shes  made a payment to clear 
the arrears or put forward a credible plan to do so.
the court process
Halifax started legal proceedings to take possession of Miss Ss property. These 
proceedings are ongoing, although Halifax paused them  while we looked  into this complaint.  
Miss S raised concerns  about certain aspects of the legal  process,  including that she didnt 
receive notices of hearings and an offer by a family member to make mortgage payments 
wasnt properly considered. 
Ref: DRN51642943Both parties  had opportunities  to provide statements  and evidence to the court. I dont have  
power to overturn a court  order and I dont  think its appropriate to comment  on the legal  
proceedings.
what should happen now?
Miss S has described the problems shes had to deal with. I sympathise with the 
circumstances she describes. I must consider here though whether Halifax  has treated her 
fairly. In doing so, Ive taken into account what Miss S has said about her circumstances. But 
I must also take into account the amount of the arrears and the time that has passed  since  
payments were made  to the mortgage  account.  
I must also take into account that Miss Ss debt will continue to increase while it remains 
outstanding. And, based on the available evidence,  I cant  see any reasonable prospect of 
Miss S being able to clear  the arrears and resume monthly payments within a reasonable 
period.
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to require Halifax  to cancel or delay 
its legal  action or pay any compensation to Miss S. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164294