K820x#14complaint
Miss P (represented by Mr P) has complained about esure Insurance  Limited. She isnt 
happy that it cancelled her car insurance policy and feels that she wasnt  told about  it.
background
Miss Ps car insurance was cancelled  by esure  due to a missed direct  debit  payment  in July 
2017. This led to her being fined for driving  without insurance by the police.
In June 2017 Miss Ps direct debit  payment  failed.  It wrote to Miss P to tell her that the 
payment had failed  and tried to take the payment for a second time. When that failed esure 
wrote out explaining that it would need full payment for the policy or it would have to cancel. 
As it didnt  receive  the payment or contact  from Miss P it cancelled the policy.
Miss Ps representative advanced a complaint to esure. He said that the policy was 
cancelled without warning; that a payment was taken around the time of cancellation which 
was misleading; that esure instructed a debt recovery agency after full payment was made;  
and that it conducted a soft search on Miss Ps credit file.
esure said that it had acted reasonably  in cancelling the policy  but it accepted that it 
shouldnt have instructed the debt recovery agency and explained  that due to the passage  of 
time that it couldnt  explain why the soft search  had been undertaken. It offered  to waive  the 
cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill,  ensured that the soft search records were removed 
and offered £50 compensation for the referral to the debt collection agency.
Miss P remained unhappy so her representative  referred her complaint to this service. But 
our adjudicator didnt  uphold  her complaint. Although he accepted  that esure had got things 
wrong in relation to the soft credit search  and the debt recovery  referral he thought  that it 
had acted reasonably in trying to put things right. And in relation to Miss Ps main complaint  
(the cancellation of the policy) he didnt  think that esure had done anything  wrong.
As Miss P didnt agree  the matter  has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite my natural 
sympathy for the position  Miss P has found  herself,  Im not upholding her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
As the monthly payment  was missed in June  2017 esure tried to take the payment again 
later that month and it wrote out to Miss P explaining this. It also outlined that if payment 
wasnt made then the full premium would be due. Once full payment was due it wrote  to 
Miss P explaining  that if full payment wasnt made then the policy  would be cancelled. It 
gave notice that the policy would  be cancelled in line with the policy  terms and conditions if 
payment wasnt received.  When payment  wasnt received it cancelled the policy and wrote  
out to Miss P explaining that the policy had cancelled.
Unfortunately, none of the letters explaining this were received by Miss P. I know  Miss Ps 
representative says that these werent  sent. But Ive seen copies of the letters and the 
system notes showing that they were sent.  I see no reason why esure wouldnt send them  
Ref: DRN51040822as it wanted payment for the policy at that time and I cant  hold it responsible  for any 
problems with the postal service.
I know Miss Ps representative  has questioned why the letters werent  sent by recorded  
delivery and I can understand why. But there was no obligation  on esure to do this. And 
sometimes recorded delivery letters arent  signed for and are returned  not delivered.  So 
there isnt a guarantee that these will be delivered  either. But I understand Mr Ps point  and 
accept that in an ideal world a letter couldve been sent recorded delivery as well. 
But esure also went onto email Miss P and to send a text to the last mobile number  it had 
recorded for her. I understand that the email went into a spam folder and so wasnt received 
and Miss P had changed her mobile  number but not informed esure. I know  her 
representative feels that esure shouldve done  more here,  but I cant say that it has acted 
unreasonably. It simply went on the latest  contact details it had and it isnt responsible for the 
problems in delivery here as well.
In relation to the soft credit  search esure has looked  to put this right.  And I understand that 
this has had no affect on Miss P so I think it has acted reasonably.  
And finally I can understand  Miss Ps frustration that, having  paid the small outstanding 
premium, that she was referred  to a debt recovery agency. Fortunately, esure put things 
right before any lasting  damage was caused  and it has offered £50 compensation for this 
and to waive the cancellation  fee, which I think is fair.
So, overall I dont  think that esure has acted unreasonably. It wasnt responsible for the 
failure of Miss Ps direct  debit that led to the cancellation of the policy.  And although a later 
instalment was taken  the following month  the failure  in June invoked the cancellation  
process which followed and was communicated to Miss P.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given, that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104082