K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc has discriminated against him by removing 
its telephone payment  facility which enabled him to make a payment to his credit card 
account by telephoning it and giving  his debit card details along with the amount he wanted 
to pay over the telephone.
background
Mr M is registered  as blind. He used  to make regular payments to his credit card by calling 
Sainsburys, telling the adviser  what he wanted to pay and giving his credit card details over 
the telephone. Sainsburys decided to take this option away  and this means if Mr M wants to 
pay by telephone he has to use Sainsburys automated service. This involves putting his 
debit card number in using his telephone key pad. Hes said Sainsburys system doesnt 
allow enough time in between digits for him to do this on his own. 
Mr M complained about this and Sainsburys told him they had decided to remove the option 
for customers to pay by giving their debit card details over the telephone  to meet  industry 
guidelines. And it explained  Mr M had other  options  to make payments to his credit card 
other than using its automated service. It said he could set up a direct debit, use its on-line 
facility or make  a payment  via his bank. 
Mr M didnt  think  Sainsburys response was appropriate, so he complained to us. Our 
investigator suggested Sainsburys approach was reasonable. Mr M didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
I reviewed the case and suggested to Sainsburys it should have given more  thought  and 
completed a customer impact assessment taking into account customers with disabilities 
before making  the change to its automated service.
Sainsburys has agreed to carry out this assessment, although it isnt able to provide a 
timescale and it wont actually commit to making changes to its automated  service  at this 
stage. Its also agreed  to pay £500  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  its 
failure to do this originally  and its response to Mr Ms complaint caused him. 
Ive explained  to Mr M why I think what Sainsburys has offered is fair and reasonable. But 
he doesnt agree and would like a final decision. He doesnt think  Sainsburys has provided 
him with reasonable alternatives. And he doesnt  feel he should  have to justify why he 
chooses not to use other methods of payment. His point being he should be able to use 
Sainsburys telephone  service and now cant because of his disability and this is 
discrimination. He doesnt think Sainsburys  just agreeing to consider changing  its 
automated service is good enough. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered the legal  position  
carefully. But were an informal alternative the courts  so the key issue  here is whether I 
think what Sainsburys has now offered to do produces a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr 
Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN53330782In considering what is fair and reasonable I have to take into account any relevant law, 
regulations, codes of practice and good  industry  practice. The relevant law here is the 
Equality Act 2010, which requires Sainsburys to make reasonable adjustments and/or 
provide a reasonable alternative  method of providing the service to disabled customers. This 
applies to systems that it has in place, including its automated telephone payment service.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service cannot  make a finding of discrimination. Only the courts 
can do this. But we do think  about  what a court is likely to decide.
I should start by saying  Im satisfied that Sainsburys reason for removing the option for its 
customers to pay by giving card details over the telephone verbally is legitimate. The 
relevant guidelines require payment service  providers to protect their customers  financial 
data and stopping  these being  recorded  and stored is one way of doing this. I appreciate 
some businesses have  different  call recording systems, which allow  their staff to stop the 
recording at the point the customer  provides card details  and some  dont record calls.  But 
Sainsburys system  records calls and doesnt allow advisers to stop the call recording.  And I 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Sainsburys to stop recording calls or install  a 
new system  just so their staff can stop the call recording when they want  to. 
I accept Mr M isnt able to use Sainsburys automated service on his own the way it currently 
works. And - at this stage  - Sainsburys hasnt agreed to adjust this service. But it has 
agreed to do a proper  assessment and consider adjusting it. Its also agreed  to pay £500  
compensation for not agreeing to do this originally and for any distress  and inconvenience  
its approach has caused  Mr M. 
I think Sainsburys has also provided Mr M with a couple of reasonable alternatives to make  
the payments  he wants to make.  The first is to use software I understand he has, which  
helps him use Sainsburys  on-line facility to make the payment he wants to make.  I 
appreciate Mr M finds using the internet  facility difficult, but the evidence Sainsburys has 
provided shows he has used it. So, it does seem he is able to make  a payment this way. 
The second  option is for him to make  a payment by telephoning the bank he holds his debit 
card with and asking it to make the payment to Sainsburys. Mr M has said this is difficult  
because he and his wife share  the credit card and both like to make payments. But this 
doesnt stop Mr M making the payment he wants to make direct from his bank account  by 
telephoning his bank. If his wife wants to make a separate payment she can do this by 
telephoning her bank. I appreciate this isnt an alternative to Mr M that allows him to actually 
contact Sainsburys direct to make the payment  from his bank account, like he used to do by 
giving his debit  card details. But, it is nonetheless a way of him choosing  the amount and 
making the payment from his bank account. 
So, overall Im satisfied what Sainsburys has suggested as alternatives and what its agreed 
to do and pay in compensation  produces a fair and reasonable  outcome to Mr Ms complaint. 
I do appreciate ideally Mr M should  be able to use Sainsburys automated service and 
hopefully it will make the adjustments  needed  in due course.  But  my role is to decide 
whether what its offered  at this stage produces  a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
particular complaint and I think  it does. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im satisfied Sainsburys offer to carry out a review of its 
automated service and pay £500  in compensation to Mr M for distress and inconvenience is 
a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN53330783So, my decision is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc should  pay Mr M £500.
Sainsburys Bank Plc should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr M has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it should add simple interest to the compensation at a 
rate of 8% per year,  from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5333078