K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC failed to comply with the one month  subject access  
request (SAR) time limit. 
background
Mrs H has a current account  with Lloyds. Last year she stopped receiving statements for her 
current account and complained to Lloyds about it. Mrs H didnt believe what Lloyds told her 
about why her statements had stopped being sent and said they were hiding information 
from her. Because of this she raised a SAR to find out what had been happening on her 
account. 
Lloyds was unable  to send the information asked for under the SAR within the one month 
time limit, but wrote to Mrs H to let her know it would respond within  90 days. Mrs H didnt 
think this was good enough  and complained.  Lloyds  issued  a final response  where  it said 
obtaining all the information Mrs H had asked for was complex so it would take longer than 
one month  to send  it to her. Lloyds also said in circumstances where the requests are 
complex its allowed  an additional two months to send the information and that it had let 
Mrs H know this. Mrs H wasnt  satisfied with Lloyds response so referred her complaint  
here. 
Our Investigator  reviewed Mrs Hs complaint and didnt think Lloyds had done  anything 
wrong. She found  that Lloyds had acknowledged  Mrs Hs SAR within a week  of it being  
made. The letter also told Mrs H the request  was complex so would take longer than one 
month. 
Mrs H disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has raised  multiple complaints with Lloyds due to the experience shes received over 
a few months. As the complaints have been  raised  separately weve  also had to deal with 
them separately, but essentially all relate back to Lloyds not sending  Mrs H her account 
statements. 
This complaint is about Lloyds not complying with the one month time limit for a SAR.  Mrs H 
has made a number of detailed  points.  Were  an informal  dispute  resolution service, set up 
as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint  Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue in turn. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to Mrs H. Rather  it reflects the informal nature of our service, the 
remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service  and my role in it.
Mrs H raised a SAR request with Lloyds over the phone at the beginning of January. Ive 
seen the letter Lloyds sent Mrs H within a week of this acknowledging the SAR and saying it 
wouldnt be able to meet  the one month time limit. Lloyds  provided a reason for this and said 
it would  respond  by 2 April 2019.  
Ref: DRN51913772Lloyds then also didnt  respond to Mrs Hs SAR by the 2 April either. By this point Mrs H had 
already referred  her complaint to this service. Our investigator asked Lloyds  for the reason 
for this and was told it was due to the volume  of work and the complex  nature of Mrs Hs 
request. Mrs H has now received the response to her SAR,  albeit later than it should have 
been. 
Its not in dispute  that Lloyds didnt meet the one month time limit, or the extended  time limit 
of three  months. My role isnt to say whether Lloyds breached the information  rights law or to 
penalise Lloyds for it if it has. But I have looked at the impact its had on Mrs H and whether 
it kept her updated. Ive seen multiple phone  records between this service and Mrs H during 
this time and also between our investigator and Lloyds. Ive also seen  a copy  of the letter 
Lloyds sent Mrs H when  she made  the request. So I think Mrs H was kept updated about her 
SAR and knew she wasnt going to receive it in time. 
I agree  Lloyds hasnt  met the time limits noted above, but it has provided a reason for not 
doing so and Mrs H was kept updated. So, I think Lloyds acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Mrs H also did the SAR request to find out the reason Lloyds hadnt sent her account  
statements, but Lloyds  had told her the reason for that previously. Im therefore not 
persuaded Lloyds delay  in sending her this information caused anymore distress and 
inconvenience, than she had already suffered  by not receiving her account statements. 
As Mrs H has now received her SAR and been compensated under her other complaint for 
the distress and inconvenience  relating to her statements. Im not going to tell Lloyds to do 
anymore. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5191377