K821x#15complaint
Ms T says that Glyn Hopkin Ltd (GHL) mis-sold  her a single  premium  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a hire purchase (HP) agreement  to buy a car in 
2005.
background
Ms T took out an HP agreement to buy a car in 2005. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy. The PPI was funded with a single premium of £501.60 which  was added  to the 
borrowing. The term of the HP and PPI policy was 60 months.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Ts complaint should be upheld because they didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  to show Ms T understood she had a fair choice in taking the 
policy and that she agreed to buy it.
GHL disagreed with the adjudicators findings. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
GHL hasnt been able to send me any of the paperwork from the time and has limited 
information about the sale. Ms T has sent us a transaction history for the HP which she 
obtained from the lender, but Ms T has no paperwork from the time of the sale. This isnt 
unusual in view of the time that has gone  by since the sale took place. But where there  is 
limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats more likely to have happened,  
taking into account   the evidence available,  what  both  parties  have told me and what we 
know about these  types of sale.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting with a GHL sales advisor. GHL had to make  clear to 
Ms T that she had a fair choice in taking the PPI and make  sure she agreed to take it. 
GHL has not been  able to provide us with even a generic example of the type of HP 
agreement that Ms T would have signed. So I cant tell if the PPI was presented  to her as a 
separate product on the finance agreement, or if it was made clear it was optional.
GHL has said that a version of a Demands and Needs (D&N) form shown to it by the 
adjudicator is likely to have been  seen  by Ms T. I cant  be sure Ms T would have seen this 
version of the D&N form as it isnt dated but Ive looked at it carefully  and taken on its own I 
do have some concerns  about the way PPI is presented on it.
The D&N form covers five different types of insurance or optional extras:  PPI; GAP  
Insurance; Extended Warranty; Supagard and Road Risk Insurance.
On the four extras other than PPI there  is a clear option to decline with a prominent box to 
accept and an equally prominent box to decline the insurance  or optional extra.
Ref: DRN56084102But in the case  of the PPI there  is no clear,  prominent option.  The form asks a series of 
questions to establish a need  for the cover. The next section sets out three levels of cover 
and states, I wish to take this cover (select  level).   This is followed by four very small 
boxes, the last one of which does  state  no cover.
Whilst I cant be sure if this is the type of form Ms T would have seen, if it was, then I dont 
think the D&N form would  have given Ms T a clear, fair choice over whether to take the PPI. 
GHL has not been  able to show us any examples of other forms that were  in use at the time 
such as an example PPI application form or finance agreement which may have helped  
confirm if Ms T was given  a fair choice  or not.
But based  on the evidence Ive seen  I cant say that it was made  clear  to Ms T she had a fair 
choice in taking  the policy. And it follows that I uphold this complaint.
 
what GHL should do to put things right
Ms T borrowed  £501.60 extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was £501.60 bigger than it 
shouldve been  and she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Ms T needs to get 
back the extra shes paid.  
So, GHL should:
Work  out and pay Ms T the difference  between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms T paid each month from when  she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, GHL can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires GHL to take off tax from this interest.  GHL must give   
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
So for the reasons Ive explained,  I uphold Ms Ts complaint against Glyn Hopkin Ltd and 
direct that it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5608410