K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Topaz Finance Limited  trading as Rosinca Mortgages (Rosinca) 
recorded adverse  information on his credit file in relation to his two buy-to-let mortgage 
accounts.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019  explaining  that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.  An extract of that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr W has two interest only buy-to-let  mortgages  (which I will refer to as Mortgage A and 
Mortgage B). They were  originally taken out with a different  lender  but are now owned by 
Rosinca.
In January 2019 both Mortgage A and Mortgage B were marked  by Rosinca  as being one 
month in arrears. This information was recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file. Mortgage B was also 
marked in arrears for February 2019.
Mr W complained  to Rosinca about  this as well as the arrears  management fees he was 
charged as a result. Mr W said that this adverse information was preventing him from re-
mortgaging to a different  lender. He also said that the arrears  had only come about  because  
of poor advice from Rosinca. He says that in August  2018 both of his accounts had been 
overpaid. And he says Rosinca contacted  him to inform him of this and to say that it would  
return the overpayments to him. He says that, if this hadnt happened  and the overpayments 
had remained on the account, the arrears situation would never  have happened.  And he 
said he has historically kept both accounts overpaid,  for scenarios such  as this, as his 
previous lender had recommended doing so. He also said he had made payments a few 
days late many times and this hadnt affected  his credit file.
Rosinca said it didnt  think it had done anything wrong. It said that the arrears on the 
accounts in January 2019 had exceeded  the level of one monthly contractual repayment,  so 
it felt the information  passed to credit reference  agencies was accurate. The position had 
continued on Mortgage B in February 2019 so it again thought  this was correct. And 
because of the position of the account, it was entitled to charge fees in line with the terms 
and conditions.
Rosinca said it had reviewed a call Mr W made to it in October 2018 when he asked if he 
could pay late. It said the implications were discussed. At that time of the call, as the monthly  
repayment for October 2018 hadnt  yet become due, the accounts were not in arrears.  But 
there was no discussion  at that time about overpayments  being returned. It confirmed that 
the arrears situation  had started in August 2018,  due to payments not being made. But it 
didnt think it was at fault for this.
Mr W asked our service  to look into his complaint about the information recorded with credit 
reference agencies.  He felt the information  was not an accurate reflection of what  had 
happened. He said there were periods where  he had overpaid by hundreds of pounds  and 
this was not reported. So he felt removing the adverse information was the fair thing to do.
Mr W has sent a number  of further emails  while the complaint was waiting to be passed to 
an ombudsman. Ive reviewed these in full. These have contained further reasoning  as to 
Ref: DRN54216982why he thinks the information reported  is incorrect  and Ive taken this into account when 
considering his complaint. 
His emails have also raised new complaint points about things that have happened more 
recentl,y while our service has been  looking into his complaint  specifically Rosinca 
applying legal fees to the mortgages and pursuing  repayment while  these issues  were 
ongoing (and while he had incurred other costs in respect  of the properties). For the 
avoidance of doubt I have  not considered these new issues.  For our service to be able to 
look into a complaint the respondent business,  in this case  Rosinca, must be given the 
opportunity to answer the complaint first  which hasnt happened in respect  of these new 
issues. So I am only looking at the adverse information recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in early  
2019 and whether this was done correctly. Mr W can still raise  these new issues with 
Rosinca and once  he has received a final response he may be able to refer these points to 
us to be considered   but this would  be as a separate new complaint.
Rosinca has said it only applies arrears management charges and reports  accounts as being 
in arrears to credit reference  agencies when the level of those  arrears  exceeds one 
contractual monthly repayment. This policy though  is a matter of its own commercial  
judgement and not something we would  generally comment  on or look to interfere with. We 
are not a regulator  so cant require a business to change its policies. In any event though,  
Rosinca has explained  why it does this and I dont think this sounds  unreasonable.  
Businesses have to report accurate information  to credit reference agencies.  And if an 
account has fallen  behind by more than one contractual monthly repayment, I think this is a 
reasonable point to consider the account  as in arrears. And this is similar to the approach 
taken by a lot of businesses  in the industry.  So what Im left to look at is whether it has 
applied that policy correctly to Mr Ws accounts or if it has made  any errors. To do that Ill 
consider each account separately.
Mortgage A
The contractual monthly repayment on Mortgage A is due by the end of each calendar 
month. From December 2017  the contractual repayment was £223.87. In September  2018, 
due to an increase  in interest rate, this went up to £248.34.
Ive seen a summary  of the payments made to this account, the interest due and the running 
arrears balance from January 2018 onwards. 
At the end of January  2018, the account  had been  overpaid by £1.66. The February 2018 
payment doesnt  then appear to have  been made in full, so the account fell into arrears. Two 
payments were however credited to the account in April 2018,  bringing it out of arrears and 
leaving it £4.05 overpaid. Mr W has said when  the account moved  to Rosinca from the 
previous provider there were a couple  of instances  where the payment went  to the old 
provider by mistake. And this took time to then reach Rosinca. That would appear to explain 
what happened in April 2018. 
A similar scenario happened  with the May 2018 payment not being received and the account 
falling into arrears with this then being  made  up in July 2018  likely for the same  reasons.
During that time the arrears on the account did not exceed £223.87  the contractual 
monthly repayment at the time. So Rosinca  did not report  the account as in arrears  to credit 
reference agencies.
Ref: DRN54216983After all of these transactions, as of 1 August 2018,  Mortgage A had been overpaid by £4.44. 
As I said Ive seen evidence of the payments made to the account,  payments that became 
due and the running account position.  And none of this supports Mr Ws argument  that the 
account had been overpaid  by more than a monthly  repayment. Mr W has also said there 
were points where he had overpaid  by hundreds of pounds and he had tended  to keep  the 
account overpaid as this is what the previous lender recommended. But again the 
information Ive seen doesnt show that to be the case  at least  not after January 2018. 
There was no refund of an overpayment from Mortgage A to Mr W in August 2018. But I can 
see that no contractual repayment was made either   which  I believe is what Mr W has 
referred to when talking  about the overpayment being returned to him. Mr W says this was 
on the advice  of Rosinca  specifically  his account  manager. 
We asked Mr W for some  additional  information  about this  such as a phone bill showing 
the date of the conversation where this information  was discussed. But he wasnt able to 
provide this. I dont  know what  was said in conversations Mr W had with Rosinca. In 
situations like this, where information is limited,  I have to decide  what  I think is likely to have 
happened based on the evidence that is available.
Ive seen copies  of Rosincas contact notes  for that time  from the account  manager that 
was looking after Mr Ws account and its central notes. None of these indicate that Rosinca 
told Mr W it would refund him or told him not to make a repayment because he had overpaid. 
And given  that the account  wasnt over a months repayment in credit / overpaid, this is as Id 
expect. I can see he did have a conversation  with the account manager on 15 August  2018.  
But the notes  indicate this was about  a grace  period for repaying his mortgages in full as 
the balance on both had become due as the terms of each had come to an end. Ive also 
seen a copy of a letter sent the following day confirming the discussion, and no mention was 
made of a payment not being required in August on either of the mortgages.  And with the full 
balance being  due, I think this would make  it even less likely that Rosinca would consider 
returning an overpayment.
Mr W has been consistent about  what he was told by Rosinca. But beyond  what he has said, 
none of the other information  available supports his argument. So I dont think  I can 
reasonably say that the arrears situation that later developed was due to Rosinca giving 
Mr W incorrect information or bad advice in August 2018.
As a result of a repayment not being made in August 2018, the account again  began running 
an arrears balance. Payments were then made in each of the following months, but not 
always for the amount that was due meaning  the arrears figure fluctuated.  But again the 
level of arrears didnt  go above a contractual  monthly repayment   which by that time had 
increased to £248.34.  The contact notes  indicate there were regular discussions between 
the account manager and Mr W, confirming the level of arrears and the payments needed to 
bring the accounts up to date. So I think Mr W shouldve been aware of the arrears  balance 
after August  2018.  
In December 2018 payments to the account exceeded the contractual  minimum. And this 
meant that at the end of December 2018, the arrears balance was reduced to £6.21.  
But then no payment was made in January 2019. That meant that the arrears balance went 
above the level of one monthly repayment.  And Rosinca reported  this to credit  reference 
agencies. A payment was made in February slightly above the contractual  amount. This 
meant that while an arrears balance  still existed, it was now back below  one monthly 
Ref: DRN54216984repayment and not reported. In March 2019 the account was overpaid again and the arrears 
balance brought  down  to just £0.23.
Taking all of this, and Rosincas policy on when it reports accounts in arrears,  into account  I 
dont think it has made  an error  by reporting Mortgage A as being in arrears  in January 2019 
or applying  arrears charges as a result. The information Ive seen  shows the account was 
over one months repayment in arrears so the information reported  appears to be accurate. 
Based on what Ive explained  above,  on balance I cant say that the arrears position was 
caused by information Rosinca gave  Mr W in August 2018.  And since then it appears he was 
made aware  of the arrears position, before it reached the point of exceeding one monthly 
repayment and being reported,  so shouldve been  aware of the need to maintain 
repayments. So overall I cant reasonably ask Rosinca to remove the information reported in 
relation to Mortgage A from Mr Ws credit file.
Mortgage B
The contractual monthly repayment on Mortgage B from December 2017 was £343.65 and 
was again due by the end of each month.  In September  2018,  again due to an increase in 
interest rate, this went  up to £382.27.
Ive again seen a summary of payments made and due and a running arrears  balance. 
At the end of February  2018, the information provided shows  that Mortgage B had an arrears  
balance of £136.02. Repayments of £343.00 were  made each month until July 2018  (this 
was less than the contractual repayment of £343.65 so the arrears  balance marginally 
increased each  month but was still below one full contractual  monthly  repayment).
In July 2018 an overpayment for approximately £200.00 was made  to the account.  This 
cleared the arrears and left the account  overpaid  by £60.73 at the beginning of August 2018. 
Again I cant see from any of the information about the account that the account was 
overpaid by more than a contractually monthly repayment as Mr W has said.  And this 
appears to be the only time after February 2018 that the account was overpaid at all as it 
was running an arrears balance the rest of the time.
In August  2018  the account  was underpaid by approximately £200.00. That meant that at the 
end of August  it was again running an arrears balance, of £139.92. Mr W has again  said that 
this was done on the advice of his account manager  at Rosinca. But again having  reviewed 
the contact notes Rosinca holds I havent  seen anything to support that Rosinca told him not 
to make the contractual monthly repayment. And as I explained in relation to Mortgage A, 
given the actual position of the account, and the fact that repayment of the balance  as a 
whole was being requested - albeit with a grace  period,  I think  its unlikely Rosinca did agree 
to return overpayments  to Mr W at that time.
From September 2018 the contractual  repayment increased to £382.27,  but Mr W paid less 
than this in September and November 2018, again  meaning the arrears  balance increased. 
At the end of December the arrears  balance stood at £378.73  just less than one full 
contractual monthly repayment. During this time there seems  to have been regular contact 
between him and the account manager, with the position of the account and what needed to 
be done to remedy  it discussed.
Ref: DRN54216985In January 2019, the repayment  made  to the account was only £330.00.  This meant  that the 
arrears balance went up to £431.00 and exceeded  one monthly repayment. So under its 
policy Rosinca reported this to credit reference agencies and applied  charges. The arrears  
balance doesnt  seem to have  been  brought below one contractual  monthly repayment until 
April 2019 so Rosinca  continued to report the account as in arrears.
Again taking all the available  information  into account I think  Rosinca has acted in line with 
its policy in terms of when  it reported  information  about Mortgage B to credit reference 
agencies. And that information seems to be an accurate reflection of how the account has 
been operated.  
Based on the information available, again  on balance, I cant agree with Mr W that this came  
about as a result of something Rosinca told him. But even if it had, I think it seems  likely he 
was given information about the position of the account before it reached the point of being  
reported as in arrears.  So again it wouldnt be fair for me to ask for the information reported 
about Mortgage B to be changed.
I know from the correspondence weve received that Mr W feels very strongly about this. 
And I sympathise with the position he now finds himself in in terms of having difficulty re-
mortgaging. But based on what Ive seen I dont think Rosinca has made any errors that 
caused the arrears  position. And I think its acted  reasonably in terms of when it reported the 
account as in arrears.
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Mr W disagreed  with my findings  and gave quite a detailed response  which was largely 
along the lines of the arguments hed already made and Id considered.
In summary  he said that while his accounts  were with his previous mortgage provider he had 
by choice kept them in a position of being a months  payment  overpaid  for years,  to avoid 
adverse information  being  recorded on his credit  file. He agreed that there were a couple of 
occasions in early 2018 where the monthly  payments  on his mortgage  had incorrectly been 
made to his old provider,  and then credited to Rosinca at a later date. He says that this was 
due to his error. But because  of these payments initially  going to the wrong party  and then 
crediting his account late, his account manager  at Rosinca  undertook  a review of both 
mortgages to ensure  they were up to date. He says this review was initiated  by Rosinca. And 
he says it was following  this review he was told his accounts were overpaid.  He says he was 
offered the option of having  the overpayments returned  by making reduced or no 
repayments in August  2018  which he accepted. So he says payments  were not missed in 
August 2018,  he was simply doing  what Rosinca had told him. 
Mr W thinks he should never have been  offered this as it has in the end caused the adverse 
information to be recorded against  his account  in early 2019 when the account fell over a 
months payment  in arrears. And he argues  that this information is inaccurate as the 
payment was not a month late as it was made a few days  after the end of the calendar 
month. 
Mr W has said that I should  speak  to the account  manager at Rosinca who will confirm  this 
and that I should ask Rosinca to provide call recordings  as they are required to keep them.
Ref: DRN54216986In addition Mr W says that he still thinks the issues that have come about  more recently  
legal fees being applied  to the balance and it pursuing repayment  should be considered as 
part of this complaint.
Rosinca didnt have  any further comments it wanted  me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive come to the 
same conclusions, for largely  the same  reasons  I explained in my provisional findings.
In terms of the issues that have happened since the complaint was brought to us that Mr W 
wants us to consider,  legal fees being added to his account and recovery action by the 
lender, while  Im sorry to disappoint Mr W my view of this remains  unchanged. I know  Mr W 
feels the issues are linked, so I should  look at them. But I think  they are separate events.  
And as Ive already explained,  for our service  to consider a complaint, the business 
complained about mustve  had the opportunity to respond before we can look into things. I 
cant see that has happened. So Ive only considered the adverse information recorded on 
Mr Ws credit file in early  2019, the events leading up to this and whether this was done 
correctly.
So turning  to what I have considered, Mr W has said that I should speak to his account 
manager at Rosinca and that they will confirm they told him not to make payments in August 
2018. I think its important  to explain that the ombudsman service is an informal  dispute  
resolution service. We dont have the same powers as a court  and cant  call witnesses or 
cross examine people.  I have asked Rosinca if Mr Ws account manager had any comments 
or anything  to add. But it didnt  feel there was anything he could add that wasnt recorded in 
the information itd already provided.
Mr W has also said I should ask Rosinca to provide  recordings of the calls with his account 
manager. Its down  to a businesss commercial discretion  whether it records  all calls and 
how long these recordings  are retained, and its not a requirement that it do so indefinitely. 
For completeness I have asked Rosinca if call recordings  are available. 
Rosinca has been  able to provide recordings of some of the calls Mr W held with it around 
August 2018,  which Ive listened to. None  of the recordings Ive listened  to mentioned  the 
account being overpaid, overpayments being  returned or reduced payments being accepted. 
The recordings also reflect what was written in the call notes Rosinca previously sent me  
and as a result I think the calls notes  can be considered to be reliable. And as I explained  in 
my provisional findings, I couldnt see notes of any conversations that reflected what Mr W 
has said about being told not to make repayments or that there  was an overpaid balance  to 
be returned to him. 
Ive taken account of what  Mr W has said about how his accounts were run when it was with 
his previous lender. But Im only looking at what has happened while the accounts  were with 
Rosinca. The information Ive seen about the running position of both accounts doesnt show 
that either of them were  overpaid by more  than a contractual  repayment,  either  before or in 
August 2018.  And this indicates  there  wasnt the amount to be returned that Mr W says there 
was. So on balance, taking into account  the position  of the account and that fact that 
Ref: DRN54216987Rosinca was actually  pursuing repayment  of the balances in full; I dont think its likely that it 
indicated that Mr W could  pay less to his accounts to reclaim overpayments.
But regardless of what occurred in August  2018, I think  Rosinca  made Mr W aware, before 
January 2019,  that there were arrears on the account. The calls notes Ive been provided, 
which as Ive said I think are reliable based on the calls Ive heard, indicate that Rosinca  
made Mr W aware of the arrears position  and the need to make payments to bring his 
accounts up to date in October and November 2018. While payments were  made,  the 
arrears were  not cleared in full. The result  of which was, when payments were  not made in 
January 2019,  the arrears balance on both accounts  exceeded the amount of the contractual 
monthly repayments. 
When that happened, Rosinca reported the accounts as in arrears to credit  reference 
agencies, as per its processes and applied charges to the account. Based on everything  Ive 
seen I dont think it made a mistake  by doing  this. Ive taken on board  what  Mr W has said 
about how quickly he then made  up the missed payments. But I think Rosinca has followed 
its processes and I dont  think  it has treated Mr W unfairly. The charges appear  to have been 
applied correctly and I dont think the information reported by Rosinca is incorrect,  so I cant 
reasonably ask it to amend this.
my final decision
While I know he feels strongly about  this and will be disappointed  with my findings, my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5421698