K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Retail Limited  charged  him interest  on his monthly home 
insurance premiums without his consent.
Background
Mr Fs complaint is brought by his representative,  his daughter  Ms F. She has power of 
attorney for Mr Fs affairs. Mr F is very unfortunately suffering with dementia.  
Mr F has a home insurance policy  underwritten  by Ageas. In 2018, Ms F noticed that he was 
being charged interest on his monthly premiums.  
Ms F complained to Ageas about this. She said Mr F had no need  to enter into a credit 
agreement to pay his insurance premiums  monthly because he could easily  afford to pay the 
annual premiums up front. She said hed never agreed to the monthly payments and the 
interest Ageas had charged.
She also noticed his annual  premiums  had increased significantly since  hed first bought the 
policy, so she complained to Ageas about  that too. 
Ageas refunded Mr F £1,512. It appears he would have qualified  for lower premiums  had 
they been in touch with him over the years. Ageas in effect paid back  the extra  Mr F had 
paid on his premiums   and added interest  to that amount. They  also paid him £100 in 
compensation for any inconvenience hed been caused. 
But Ageas didnt accept theyd done  anything wrong  in charging Mr F interest  on his 
premiums. They didnt  accept theyd done so without Mr Fs consent, as Ms F alleged.
So, Ms F complained to us on behalf  of her father about the credit charge. She wanted the 
interest hed paid over the years  which  she says hed never  agreed to  refunded. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Ageas had done  anything wrong. Ms F 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that the complaint Im currently considering is only about the 
interest Ageas charged Mr F. Ms F hasnt complained to us  on her fathers behalf  about 
the refund  Ageas  provided to account  for the lower premiums Mr F might have paid over the 
years.
I should also point  out that an ombudsman has already made  a decision that this complaint 
is within our jurisdiction, despite being  more  than six years after the event which leads  to the 
complaint. Its not for me to re-visit that decision.
Ref: DRN52269482The key question for me is whether  or not Mr F is likely to have agreed to the monthly 
premium instalments and the interest Ageas  consequently charged. If he did, Ageas  have 
done nothing wrong in following that plan. If he didnt, then its likely theyve unfairly  charged  
him interest  on his premiums.
Ageas records show  that Mr F has been a customer since  December 1998.  Ageas tell us 
that in 2009 the policy  migrated from an old administration system. So, they cant  provide a 
copy of the original credit agreement.
They can confirm that Mr F had been paying by direct debit since 2009  at least - when 
their new system came into place. And that each annual renewal pack  included details of the 
credit agreement and the respective APR%. 
Theyve sent us copies  of Mr Fs renewal documents since 2013.  Its not unreasonable  for 
them to be unable to provide documentation  from earlier than that. Businesses cant be 
expected to retain records indefinitely. And if they did, they may fall foul of data protection  
legislation.
Ageas say Mr F made no contact with them after buying his policy, until they received the 
complaint made by Ms F on his behalf. So, the policy automatically renewed each year  
which isnt unreasonable, as long as Mr F were informed.
Ageas also say the renewed annual policies were  paid for by the method previously agreed 
 monthly instalments by direct debit.  They  said that by allowing the policy  to renew,  Mr F 
accepted the terms of policy and the credit  provided.  They said Mr F couldve contacted 
them at any time to cancel the policy and/or the credit facility  if hed wished  to do so.
Ms F says Mr F has been suffering from dementia  since March 2013  so wouldnt have 
understood the documentation hed been sent after that time.
 
Ageas have confirmed  that Mr F was paying  by monthly direct debit from the 
December 2008  renewal at the latest. 
Mr F wasnt suffering from dementia at that time. He was sent annual renewal documents   
setting out the monthly payments and the interest  that would be applied. Hed also have 
been able to see the monthly payments in his bank  account statements.
Its very unlikely, in my view, that Ageas could have  somehow drawn a monthly direct debit 
payment from Mr Fs account without  him knowing about it beforehand and without him 
taking active steps to agree and set up that direct debit payment. And its also very unlikely 
Mr F didnt  see account statements showing those monthly payments leaving his account.
Mr F is unfortunately suffering from dementia  now. Im very sorry to hear that and I know it 
must be a very difficult situation for Ms F and her family.
But I cant ignore  the fact that Ms F says she became aware  her father  was unknowingly  
paying interest on monthly premium payments relatively recently  and long after Mr F 
began to suffer with dementia.
Ref: DRN52269483Ms F says her father never agreed to the credit agreement and monthly  payments  with 
interest. Shes either  assuming that to be the case because her father  was able to afford to 
pay the annual  premiums up front. Or shes asked Mr F and hes told her he cant recall 
agreeing to the payment  method.
Without wanting to sound  unkind, it would be difficult for me to give greater weight now to the 
recollections of Mr F - given his health  problems  than to the fact that a direct debit appears  
to have been set up some time before 2009 and drawn on monthly since  then (or earlier).
If Ms F hasnt discussed this with her father,  she must be relying on the assumption that he 
wouldnt have taken  unnecessary credit to pay his insurance premiums.  That seems to me 
less persuasive as evidence of Mr Fs intentions at the time than the fact a direct  debit  was 
established - and was evident in Mr Fs bank statements from 2009 onwards at the very 
least. People take credit for all kinds of reasons   not always because they absolutely  need 
it to pay for goods or services. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  on balance  its more likely than not that Mr F knowingly  entered 
into an agreement with Ageas to pay his premiums by way of monthly  instalments by direct 
debit. And that he knew this would mean  paying  interest through  a credit agreement.
Its not unfair  or unreasonable for Ageas to continue with that arrangement at each renewal 
in the absence of any communication from Mr F asking them not to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F  on Mr Fs 
behalf - to accept or reject my decision before  14 June 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5226948