K821x#15Complaint
Ms D has complained about the investment advice she was given in 2016 by SG Kleinwort 
Hambros Bank Limited (SG Kleinwort ). She has said the advice was too risky for her, that 
her tax position wasnt fully considered and the advice caused her to pay more  in 
arrangement fees than she should have.
Background
Ms D, along  with her late husband had been clients  of SG Kleinwort since  2009. Over the 
years it had provided mortgage,  wealth planning  and investment services  to them. In 
February 2016 Mr D sadly passed  away. As long standing clients  Mr and Ms D had certain 
financial arrangements  in place which needed addressing in the wake of Mr Ds passing.
One of these arrangements was a drawdown  mortgage facility secured against  the family 
home. This was originally  set up several  years before to accommodate  the way Mr D was 
paid through his job. He earned the majority of his money annually  in one lump sum 
(bonuses). So this facility allowed flexibility and allowed Mr and Ms D to borrow  from the 
facility or pay back money into the facility as and when they required. It had operated this 
way for several years to suit their needs with historical debts and credits recorded on the 
account. 
After Mr Ds passing Ms D met with her adviser  from SG Kleinwort almost immediately; the 
information I have  says within a matter of days. This was to discuss  investment priorities and 
tax planning.
As a result of this advice Ms D was advised to draw  down  £1.5 million  of the existing 
mortgage facility  and invest this into an offshore bond.
At the time of the sale Ms D wasnt in secure employment. Financially she was in a fairly 
strong position but most of her income  came  from dividend payments from the shares she 
received in Mr Ds company following his death.
SG Kleinwort has also said Ms Ds net worth at that time was £12 million made up of the 
principal residence valued  at £8 million, and the shares. And that she was a knowledgeable  
investor who had experience in investing  in risked based products.
No fact find has been provided  that was completed  at the time so Ms Ds full financial 
position cant be confirmed. But SG Kleinwort has recorded Ms Ds objective  as wanting to 
invest a cash sum aiming to achieve a balance  between capital growth and income.  
The cash  sum was identified as £2.6 million  with £1.5 million of that being  borrowed from the 
mortgage facility.
SG Kleinwort also recorded that Ms D was looking to downgrade her appetite for risk.
The case  was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be upheld. 
He felt the advice to use the drawdown facility to invest  into an offshore  bond investment 
was unsuitable  for Ms D because it represented  a greater  level of risk than was right for 
Ms D given her circumstances at the time of the advice.
SG Kleinwort disagreed  with the assessment and remained of the view the advice was 
suitable for Ms D. It pressed the issue that Ms D was a chartered accountant and so would 
Ref: DRN56182632have been aware  of the risks involved. It did however agree the investment  strategy  was 
aggressive but felt she was a high net worth individual who wanted to take higher levels  of 
risk to obtain  higher returns.  It also said that Ms D wanted to have a tax efficient wrapper to 
enable additional  cash withdrawal if required and she wanted a degree of inheritance tax 
planning. But it did accept  that Ms D wanted  to lower her appetite  for risk. 
It also made the point  that a full suitability  letter  was issued and wasnt  challenged.  And it 
maintained the view she was a high net worth  individual who had significant assets so 
leveraging for investment  purposes wasnt uncommon in this scenario.
But it did offer Ms D £1,000 for the trouble and upset this situation had caused  her.
While the investigator considered the comments SG Kleinwort made he didnt feel 
persuaded to change  his initial outcome. So as no agreement  could  be made the complaint  
has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.
Its clear that Ms D, along  with her late husband, had a complicated  financial position due to 
the nature  of her husbands  work and the way he was remunerated. And I appreciate  that 
SG Kleinwort  had spent  many years forging a relationship with them  and providing  advice 
that was never challenged. 
However, it is important to point out that the time this decision is focused on is the point at 
which everything changed significantly for Ms D. Up to that point (2016) SG Kleinwort had 
advised Ms D and her husband as couple  using the financial  position  they were  in together 
when Mr D was still providing his salary.
However, when Mr D passed away and Ms D met with SG Kleinwort it should  have  
reassessed her financial circumstances based on her details alone  before further financial 
advice was given.  But I cant see this happened. Nor can I see that when  SG Kleinwort 
advised Ms D to drawdown  on the mortgage facility her financial position was reassessed to 
see if repayment of this could be afforded, again  by her alone.  The facility  also wasnt  
changed into her sole name. So overall it looks as though the drawdown  was granted and 
advised based on both Mr and Ms Ds financial position even  though it should have been  
based on Ms Ds position alone. And this concerns  me greatly.
In fact its even arguable  whether Ms D would have met the affordability criteria for this for 
this level of borrowing  - indeed the adviser has written this on paper at some point after the 
advice was given  (even though it now says this was a mistake).
SG Kleinwort  has said Ms D was financially secure and even though  a fact find wasnt 
carried out so I cant  see the exact details myself, I know from the information  provided that 
to a certain extent Ms D was, at that moment in time, in a fairly  strong  financial position.  
However, much of that position had come  from the passing of her husband, so in my view it 
should be viewed  as temporary. Its also worth  pointing out that her financial position did 
change and deteriorate  over the oncoming years, thereby supporting  my view that her 
Ref: DRN56182633position at that point  in time cant be wholly relied upon as support for the investment 
strategy which is in question. 
Also regardless  of someones financial position  the advice they receive  must  be suitable for 
them at that point in time,  taking account of their specific  needs  and objectives and financial 
position. Someones  level of wealth doesnt  make it acceptable to give unsuitable advice.
The crux of this issue, in my view, is the advice  to draw down the mortgage  facility and then 
invest that into a bond.
The bond  itself is not in my view unsuitable for Ms D. She had chosen to downgrade her 
appetite for risk but even  then the makeup of the bond was such  that I think  this largely 
matched that new appetite for risk. So in isolation Ms D investing in the offshore bond wasnt  
an unsuitable piece  of advice for her.
However my main  concern is with the advice to drawdown on the mortgage facility.
This advice  was to borrow money and then invest it in the hope  that such  a level of return 
would be made  at some point to validate  the advice, and pay all the servicing charges and 
interest and provide some capital growth.  To me this advice in light of what  had recently 
happened to Ms D seems  to be posing levels of risk to Ms D that far outweighed what  should  
have been suitable for her.
Ms D had just lost the main breadwinner of the family and this loss of financial income  was 
significant. Her financial positon had only increased  recently due to her husbands  passing.  
But in any event, the majority of her wealth was all invested or tied up in one form or 
another. So she certainly wasnt  in a position to get her hands on easily  accessible  cash had 
she needed to in an emergency or if something went wrong  for her financially. And while  
SG Kleinwort says she was worth  £12 million this wasnt in fact the case given £8 million  
came from her house. If the value of her home  was to be relied upon in a financial 
emergency it would require its sale and redemption of any borrowings on the home already 
in existence. Only then could the cash be used. But regardless of that, requiring the sale of a 
family home to release  cash isnt an ideal situation for someone to be in nor should they be 
put in that position by unsuitable  advice.
In my view, given the change in Ms Ds circumstances her first priority should have been to 
settle any outstanding liabilities and lessen the risk to her overall financial situation, given 
she had to care for a young child on her own from that point  on and also given her 
employment situation wasnt structured or confirmed.
So the last thing she should  have  been  advised to do at that particular point in time was to 
increase her borrowings significantly, to the extent  that her only way of repaying that 
borrowing would to be to sell the family  home, and then on top of that, put all of that at risk 
by investing it elsewhere - in other  words  risk borrowed monies all on the hope that the 
invested borrowings  will make a good return. To me this was exposing Ms D to higher  levels  
of risk than were suitable for her at that point  in time.
I know SG Kleinwort has argued  that Ms D accepted their recommendation without question 
so she was happy with it at the time. But it should know that this doesnt mean such  advice 
was suitable, nor does  it indicate that Ms D understood the risks being posed  to her. Its 
reasonable that Ms D simply accepted the advice from her adviser whom she had trusted  
and met several  times along with her husband.  I have  seen  no evidence that she was an 
Ref: DRN56182634insistent client therefore it appears  she just followed the advice she was given by someone 
she trusted.
Also Ms Ds profession does  not and should not influence whether this advice was suitable 
or not. To a certain degree I do think where the tax issues were raised Ms D would  have 
understood the matter, but again this cannot  impact the suitability of the advice given.
Overall, therefore, for the reasons given I am very uncomfortable with the advice Ms D was 
given in 2016 to borrow a significant amount of money and invest  those  borrowings  in the 
hope that the capital  made  on that investment would cover fees and charges  and make  a 
profit. In her situation having lost the main  breadwinner in the family Ms D should not have 
been put in a position where  her financial position  was put at risk. Her financial position had 
sustained a significant change and she had a child to look after on her own so stability 
should have been identified by SG Kleinwort as being her main  priority at that point in time.
 
What SG Kleinwort Hambros  Bank  Limited must  do to put things  right
As mentioned above, I dont think Ms D should  have been  advised to use her drawdown 
facility and leverage £1.5 million.  However  the facility  is now repaid and the bond has been 
encashed. Therefore  the most  practical  way of redressing this issue  is for SG Kleinwort  to  
refund any costs incurred  to Ms D associated with the £1.5 million  draw down, less any 
gains Ms D received  when she encashed the bond, net of tax. This must include all interest 
that this facility attracted and any arrangement fees Ms D was charged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. SG Kleinwort Hambros  Bank  Limited must 
pay Ms D the amount  as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5618263