K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained her bank  accounts  and credit cards with Bank of Scotland  plc, 
trading as Halifax, were  used fraudulently  by her ex-husband. Miss G wants Halifax to refund 
her a substantial amount  of money as she had no control over her bank accounts, nor 
access to her finances between October  2003 and February 2017.  Her ex-husband took 
over her accounts without  her consent.
Miss G is represented by Mr P in referring her complaint here.
background
Miss Gs complaint relates  to transactions that have taken place over four accounts, 
including two current accounts and two credit  card accounts.
Our investigator noted that Miss G said she re-took control of her accounts on 20 February 
2017, after separation from her ex-husband. He hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Miss G 
was aware of any fraudulent activity occurring on her accounts prior to that date.
When her ex-husband  left the family home,  Miss G was directed to a bag of letters which  
contained the outstanding  debts. 
Miss G says it was only after her separation from her ex-husband she became aware of the 
debts that had been incurred in her name, numerous transactions being carried  out she says 
without her knowledge. After giving Halifax details  of a crime number given to her by Action 
Fraud, she attended a Halifax branch to report the fraudulent issues.
Miss G instructed solicitors to communicate with Halifax to discuss  the fraud. Halifax  said 
they were willing to consider a complaint about fraudulent  transactions  dating back  six years 
but only on one of the current  accounts.  They believed Miss G had consented to a local 
advice bureau  helping her with her finances in 2011.
Our investigator said  taking into account the earliest date at which  Miss G had said she 
made Halifax aware of the fraudulent activity of her ex-husband  and based on the six-year 
element of our rules  we could  consider  disputed  transactions raised  by Miss G going back  
six years  from 25 April 2017: to 25 April 2011.
About those transactions that occurred on this account more  than six years  before 25 April 
2017, he considered whether Miss G knew, or ought to reasonably  have been aware she 
had cause to complain about  the transactions. He accepted  Miss G had been in touch with 
an advice bureau  about her finances  on the current account  on 25 August 2011.
He therefore deemed  Miss G to have been aware in August  2011  she had cause to complain 
about the current account. He said if she was in contact with an advice bureau to rectify her 
finances it would be reasonable  to conclude she was aware there was some sort of problem 
with the account,  including possible fraud or transactions she didnt recognise. And she 
therefore should have complained to Halifax by 25 August 2014.
The investigator did consider if there were exceptional circumstances that caused the delay. 
in Miss G complaining, whether the relationship with her ex-husband preventing her from 
doing so. He also was aware  Miss G had had a variety of medical conditions, which 
restricted her.
Ref: DRN51926142As Mr P didnt agree  with this outcome  on Miss Gs behalf, an ombudsman reviewed the 
issue around jurisdiction. He decided there were exceptional circumstances allowing us to 
consider Miss Gs complaint in full.
Our investigator then considered the detail of Miss Gs complaint. He didnt dispute the fact 
Miss G hadnt authorised  all of the transactions her ex-husband  had made.  But he believed  
that she had given her apparent authority to him in terms of Halifaxs obligations under the 
Payment Services Regulations. He also considered what the transactions had been  for. He 
couldnt say that the withdrawals and spending  Miss Gs ex-husband had made had not 
benefitted her in some way as there was no evidence  of any other spending on living 
expenses by Miss G. He didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Halifax  to do 
anything further.
Mr P, on Miss Gs behalf,  disputed  this outcome on 14 June 2020. The points hes made 
include:
Miss Gs relationship with her ex-husband was abusive and controlling, leaving her 
unable to physically  function as normal; she took various sedating medications as a 
result of chronic illnesses;
Our investigator hadnt  taken into account  Miss Gs ex-husband using an accomplice  
to contact Miss Gs Halifax branch and that communication  including with an advice 
bureau  was made by her ex-husband, without  her consent or knowledge;
Miss Gs ex-husband had complete  control  of all the family financial matters, 
including debt management agreements; and 
Whilst Miss G may have benefitted  from some of the fraudulent supermarket 
spending, she was unable to have physically completed many  of the transactions and 
cash machine withdrawals;
Miss Gs complaint has been  referred  to an ombudsman  for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other  circumstances do apply  and where  relevant  I mention these aspects below. So 
when we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint,  one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
Ref: DRN51926143allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
In broad terms a bank  is expected to process  payments  and withdrawals that a customer  
authorises it to make,  in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations  and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.  
Im not going  to cover all the points raised in previous  views  and decisions  in detail. The 
views of 24 October 2019 and 1 June 2020  explain the regulations which  guide  how we 
review these cases. My colleague also covered some  issues  in his jurisdiction decision. Its 
worth confirming that I agree with his finding that exceptional circumstances  exist here and 
allow us to review all of the transactions in dispute.
Im also aware another ombudsman made a final decision on another  of Miss Gs complaints 
in September  2019 but I have reviewed this specific complaint anew  along  with all the 
evidence provided  by both Halifax and Mr P.
No discourtesy is intended by me not covering all issues. Instead,  Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key matters  here and which impact the decision  Im making. Our rules  allow  me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature  of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Ive considered all the submissions carefully.  I note, however,  that Halifaxs  evidence about 
the transactions and accounts   particularly those that have been closed for some  time  is 
patchy. This is not surprising and is one of the aspects that cant  be helped  when reviewing  
a complaint which stretches  as far back as this one. We dont expect banks to retain 
financial data for all time but this doesnt stop me coming to a conclusion  based on what I 
believe is most likely to have happened. Our rules  allow me to do this.
Ive considered the detailed representations  that have been submitted about  the nature of 
the relationship  Miss G had with her ex-husband and the ill health  she suffered. Firstly I 
should confirm  I dont dispute these  but these facts  alone cant  dictate the conclusion I 
reach.
I have also reviewed the limited evidence which indicates Miss G most  likely did open all the 
relevant accounts.  In fact as Mr P has stressed  this isnt the crucial issue. I dont believe it 
matters whether Miss G opened these accounts herself or was just aware that they were 
opened in her name. It is the actual transactions  which are in dispute  and this is what Ive 
considered.
This reasoning has also covered my conclusion over whether  Miss G did or didnt know  
about consent given to a local advice bureau to help out with managing the debt on one of 
her accounts. Its hard to be clear about  this as the evidence  is conflicting. But looking at the 
complaint overall,  I think this only matters when I come to look at consent later.
Like our investigator,  Ive reviewed where the disputed transactions took place.  There  are 
obviously numerous cash machine withdrawals which  took place when either Miss G was 
overseas or was limited in her physical ability to get around.  So I dont believe Miss G made 
these herself. But that alone isnt enough  for me to ask Halifax to refund her. Ive gone  on to 
consider whether Miss G may have benefitted from the spending  on her accounts and what  
consent, if any, she may have given.
Ref: DRN51926144Mr P hasnt disputed Miss G may have benefitted  from the spending in supermarkets. But he 
believes the cash withdrawals were out of character. Im not sure I agree. What  would have 
been out of character would have been  large-value  transfers to an account  in her ex-
husbands name. Ive been given no evidence this took place. I accept the cash  withdrawals 
were frequent but they werent daily nor were  they regularly for amounts in excess  of £200.  
Ive also got no evidence which shows other  financial activity  being undertaken by Miss G. 
This means  these accounts cover all the spending over 14 years or so. During  this period, 
Miss G would have needed  transport to attend hospital; she also went on holidays overseas, 
as well as her normal household expenses, as well as bills. I dont  see why the cash 
withdrawals may not have  benefitted  her.
I appreciate the issue of consent is controversial here. Particularly as Mr Ps evidence  has 
consistently stressed that Miss G did not provide  consent and that she was in a relationship 
where her ex-husband exercised coercive control.   
I dont dispute  this but I need to look overall at the evidence  Ive been given. Early  on 
Miss Gs solicitors  state Miss G had no reason not to trust her husband . I see no reason 
why I cant take this into account.
Theres a concept  of apparent authority which relates to the Payment Services Regulations. I 
cant say for sure that Miss G definitively authorised her ex-husband to make  the disputed  
transactions. But its clear  her ex-husband knew Miss Gs card details and PIN. There  were 
also prolonged periods when Miss G was unable to use her card herself  because  of her 
health. 
Under the PSRs,  we consider the issue of the relationship between  the account-holder,  
formally Miss G, and the person making  the transactions.  In this case  thats Miss Gs ex-
husband. I think, taking into account all the circumstances of this case,  Miss G authorised 
him to act as her agent: to make some transactions on her behalf. She may not have thought 
about it in this way of course, or in fact I accept  have thought about this very much as she 
had her health to consider. 
Miss G wouldnt necessarily differentiate  between  those  transactions  she allowed her ex-
husband to make (for example carrying out supermarket shopping) and those that he made  
without her specific authority. I dont  doubt there were many individual  transactions  which 
Miss G didnt  authorise. But because of the nature  of their relationship, she was giving him 
apparent authority to carry out those  transactions subsequently disputed. 
I have taken Mr Ps evidence into account about the coercive nature  of their relationship. But 
this isnt the only evidence that I must  consider so Ive come to a conclusion  that perhaps  
early on Miss G gave her ex-husband apparent authority to use her account. That doesnt  
mean she expected  him to make  the cash withdrawals that subsequently took place but it 
does mean  the apparent authority covers those  transactions  now individually  disputed.  
Based on this and the fact Miss G more than likely benefitted from the spending,  I dont 
believe it would be fair and reasonable to ask Halifax to refund Miss G for the disputed 
transactions.
Ref: DRN51926145my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Gs complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5192614