K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Virgin Money  plc ended his promotional interest rate and didnt tell him.
background
Mr F had a Virgin credit card which initially had a promotional  interest  rate. He lost that rate 
in October 2016,  but he didnt realise until late 2018.  He complained  to Virgin  about  losing 
the rate, and about not being told at the time.
Virgin said that Mr F had missed a payment in October 2016. As a result,  he no longer 
qualified for the promotional  rate. This had been  communicated to him in his monthly 
statements. Mr F said he hadnt known  he could see his statements online, but Virgin told 
him it had emailed him to tell him his statements were viewable online. Mr F brought his 
complaint to our Service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the terms and conditions  for the 
account made it clear  that any promotional rate would be lost if a minimum payment was not 
received when it was due. This was what had happened. This was explained on the monthly 
statements, which were available online.  Virgin had also sent Mr F a notice of default  sums 
about the charges which he had incurred as a result of the missed payment. He therefore 
concluded that Virgin had done nothing wrong.
Mr F asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  He insisted he had been  treated unfairly,  and that 
Virgin should at least have emailed him.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen screenshots of what Mr F would have seen when he applied for the credit card 
online in early 2016. The following paragraphs  appear prominently:
Your card will automatically  be set up with online  statements. If you prefer  paper  
statements, you can ask for these to be sent to your home address once your 
account is up and running.
If we do not receive  the minimum payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect  from the start of that statement 
period.
I have also read the terms and conditions for the credit card. Paragraph 7.5 says:
If we do not receive  the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect  from the start of that statement 
period. When  a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn,  we charge the current 
standard interest rate that applies to that transaction.
I have seen Mr Fs statements for September and October  2016.  The September statement 
says that a minimum payment of £138.33  was due on 13 October. Mr F had set up a direct  
debit to make his minimum payments. On 13 October the minimum payment was paid, but 
three days later this direct debit was reversed. I do not know why, but there is no suggestion 
Ref: DRN58442222that this was Virgins fault. Five days after that, a payment of £100  was made, which  was not 
enough and which in any event was late. Accordingly, Mr F lost the promotional rate. Virgin  
acted in line with its terms and conditions when it began to charge him standard  interest.
The reversed direct debit  appeared  on Mr Fs October statement. So did the arrears of 
£38.33, and the charges  for the failed payment and the late payment (£9 each),  and £199  in 
interest. If Mr F had looked  at his statement online,  he would have seen all of that. He didnt, 
but that was his choice. I cant agree that Virgin didnt tell him about  it.
On 23 October, the same date as the October  statement,  Virgin  sent Mr F a notice of default 
sums about the £18 of charges. These were clearly itemised as failed payment charge and 
late payment charge.  I know that he received and read that notice, because  Virgins 
contact notes say that he phoned Virgin on 10 November  to ask about  it. So even though 
Mr F didnt  look at his statements, he still knew about the failed direct debit, and the fact that 
the minimum payment  had not been  made.  I think that should have prompted him to check  
his latest statement,  even if he didnt check them normally.
So between the notice and the statements,  I think  Virgin  did enough to warn Mr F that he 
had lost his promotional rate. If he didnt realise  that, then that is the natural and foreseeable 
consequence of not checking  the monthly statements on a credit card account  especially 
after receiving a notice  of default  sums.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5844222