K820x#14complaint
Miss Bs unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  has managed her 
accounts. She says £25,000 has gone missing,  money has been  transferred to an account 
she doesnt recognise and money  moved  to a higher interest account without her authority.
background
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that it was having  problems  interpreting  exactly  
what Miss B was questioning. It had traced the movement of the £25,000 between  her 
accounts including into a savings account.  But it apologised for the poor service shed had in 
branch and had paid her £100  for this.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Account statements show a sum of £25,000  was moved  between  Miss Bs accounts. 
But he couldnt see where this money  may have  gone missing. 
Some money was transferred into an account Miss B said she didnt recognise. But 
that account with another bank  was in her married name. 
Miss B says some  money was moved  internally without her authority. But there is 
evidence that in recent years some accounts were  closed. This would  include when 
accounts matured  and the money  was moved  internally including when no maturity  
instruction had been received by Bank  of Scotland. Its notes show that when 
changes were made to some  accounts  this was done with Miss Bs authority
From  the available evidence he is satisfied Bank of Scotland managed Miss Bs 
accounts fairly. Hes noted it paid her £100  compensation  for the way she was 
treated in branch. And he will not be asking  it to pay her any more.
Miss B remains unhappy and says he has been the victim of scammers. Shes asked for an 
ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Miss B has provided detailed submissions to support  her complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Miss B says she has been the victim  of scammers and £25,000  has gone missing  from her 
accounts. Although  there is evidence of this money  being moved  internally between  her 
various accounts I havent seen anything to suggest on balance that this money is missing 
from them.
Ref: DRN56522362Miss B also says money  was moved  internally without her authority. The available  evidence 
suggests money was moved between accounts  by Miss B and on her authority. And its 
possible that if the bank didnt have  her up to date instructions  it mayve  transferred some 
money to other accounts automatically  or when it only had her older instructions, given when 
the accounts were  opened, particularly when some  savings accounts matured and had to be 
closed.
Miss B also says some money was paid out to an account she doesnt recognise. But it 
appears this was in fact paid into an account in her married name held with another bank.
Miss B has held and holds a number of accounts with Bank of Scotland and I can 
understand how easily she mightve become  confused about whats  happened over the 
years. And I recognise that she has been  distressed by what she thinks  has happened.
Even so I dont think its been  shown on the available  evidence  that Bank of Scotland  has 
likely done  anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably now require it to 
reimburse Miss B with the £25,000  she says is missing or pay her any more  compensation 
as shed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Bs frustration  and strength of feeling, I think the 
investigators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. And I dont see 
any reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5652236