K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim for storm damage to 
his roof and bedroom. He also complains about the conduct of the surveyor who inspected  
the damage.
background
Mr R made  the claim under his home insurance  policy. He made the claim two days after the 
event, and by that time he had already repaired his roof. He reported that high winds  had 
caused a tile to fall, and rainwater had damaged the ceiling and walls of a bedroom.  
A surveyor was appointed  to assess the damage, and he declined the claim. In his report  he 
commented that the roof had already  been  repaired and photos  of the damage hadnt been  
taken, so he couldnt fully validate  this part of the claim. But he noted that a broken tile and 
rotten underfelt had been renewed which he considered to be maintenance work. He also 
noted that other tiles on the roof hadnt lifted during the high winds,  so he concluded the 
affected tile had cracked due to age.
The surveyor also concluded  that the internal damage to the bedroom  had been  caused over 
a period of time. Damp  readings were taken, and in his report  the surveyor  commented that 
the affected plaster was very damp  and mouldy.  He said it was clear that water had been 
leaking into the property  over a very long period and the damage was not from a recent 
event. He also concluded that the internal damage  was consistent with a cracked  tile 
allowing water to enter the property every time it rained.
About a week after the surveyors visit, Mr R contacted esure for an update  and he was 
told the claim had been  declined.  Mr R complained, but esure  maintained its surveyors  
position and sent him a copy of the surveyors report.
Mr R went on to explain that the surveyor had been rude and abrupt. Mr R said the surveyor 
didnt discuss his findings with him, and nor did he accept those findings  which contradicts 
what the surveyor wrote in his report.  Mr R also clarified there wasnt  a broken tile or rotten  
felt, but rather the tile had blown off the roof and this was replaced. He explained the roof 
underlay was only added  for extra  safety. Mr R also said he hadnt previously noticed  any 
water damage in the bedroom  and if rain had been  entering over a period of time he 
wouldnt have been aware due to wallpaper  on the ceiling  and walls.  
After considering Mr Rs further  comments, esures decision remained unchanged. He then 
contacted this service  and one of our investigators considered the matter.  But overall, she 
didnt think the amount  of internal damage was consistent with a tile being off a roof for a 
short space of time. As such, she concluded the claim had been fairly declined.  
Our investigator did however initially conclude that esure should  compensate  Mr R £50 for 
the upset he was caused by the surveyor being  rude and his inaccurate comments  about  
what was discussed  during the visit. But after giving the matter further consideration she 
changed her opinion on this, noting  concerns  hadnt been raised about the surveyors 
conduct at the time. 
Because Mr R disagreed  with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN59362392my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
As explained by our investigator, there  are three  conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage  should  succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed  Mr Rs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind.
Its not disputed  by esure that there were storm force winds  during the day in question.  I also 
accept what Mr R says about  the tile being blown off in the wind, rather than it simply being  
cracked  and this damage is typical of that caused  by a storm. But Im not persuaded that 
the storm conditions  were the main cause of the damage to Mr Rs roof or bedroom.  Ill 
explain why.
The weather  records show  that only a relatively low amount of rain fell between  when the tile 
blew off and the roof was repaired,  but theres considerable damage to the bedroom.  Based 
on this, Im persuaded  that water  had been entering the property over a period  of time, long 
before the tile blew off. So Im not persuaded the storm conditions were  the main  cause of 
the damage to the bedroom.  Consequently,  Im also persuaded that there  was an existing 
issue with the tile, likely caused by gradual wear, which had been allowing rainwater to 
enter. So on balance,  Im not persuaded the storm conditions were the main cause of 
damage to the roof either.
I appreciate Mr R says he wasnt aware  of the issues, but Im sorry to say that doesnt matter  
here. Im not persuaded the damage was caused by an insured event; Im persuaded it was 
caused by general  wear  and tear to the roof  and this is excluded by the policy. Mr R has 
also asked about  cover under the accidental  damage section of his policy, but this section 
requires the incident to be a single event   and as explained above, Im persuaded the 
damage occurred  gradually  over time.  So regardless of Mr Rs lack of awareness of the 
issues at his home, theres  no cover under his policy.
Therefore, having  carefully considered the available information and all the points Mr R has 
made, Im satisfied that esure  has fairly declined his claim.
Ill turn now to Mr Rs dissatisfaction with the surveyor. I accept what  Mr R says, that certain 
aspects of the surveyors report dont reflect what was discussed  during the visit. But whilst   
I accept that this is frustrating for Mr R, he hasnt said anything that persuades  me the 
discrepancies in the report caused  him a degree  of trouble or upset that ought to be 
compensated. The discrepancies also had no impact on the outcome of the claim. 
Ref: DRN59362393Furthermore, although Mr R says the surveyor was rude and abrupt, this wasnt  raised  at the 
time. We have been shown phone notes which show  Mr R called the surveyors office after 
the visit and before the report had been produced, and theres  no mention of the surveyors 
conduct during  this call note. So Im not persuaded the surveyor  was unprofessional.  If he 
had been, Im persuaded Mr R would have mentioned his concerns during that call. 
So in conclusion, I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint about the surveyor either.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936239