K820x#14The complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund  her a payment 
made from her current account.
What happened
In July 2018, Miss F was the unfortunate victim of a scam. She had been speaking  
with someone she thought worked  for a flight provider about  the purchase  of an 
international flight ticket.  Unbeknown to Miss F, this was a clone  of the legitimate 
company set up by scammers.
On 4 July 2018,  Miss F transferred £845  from her current account to pay for her flight. 
But she didnt receive her flight confirmation or a copy of her ticket. Miss F contacted 
the legitimate  flight provider on 27 July 2018  the day before she was due to fly. It 
was at this point that Miss F was told a flight had not been booked on her behalf  and 
Miss F realised she had been scammed. 
Miss F contacted Barclays straightaway to let them  know what had happened and Barclays 
got in touch with the receiving bank on 2 August  2018. But the receiving bank responded to 
say that all of Miss Fs funds had been  removed  from their account.  At this point, Barclays  
told Miss F there was nothing further  it could  do to help. 
Miss F was unhappy with Barclays  response and brought  a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Fs complaint  and didnt uphold it. She felt there  wasnt  
anything about  the payment that meant  Barclays shouldve questioned Miss F about it 
before it allowed it to leave Miss Fs account. And she didnt think  there was anything more  
Barclays couldve done once notified that Miss F had been the victim of a scam either. She 
thought it most likely Miss Fs funds had already been removed by the time Barclays  were  
notified of the scam  there was just over 3 weeks between the payment being made and 
Miss F realising and notifying  Barclays. 
Miss F disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
As part of my investigation,  I contacted  the receiving bank to find out when Miss Fs funds 
were removed from the receiving account. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to obtain 
this information.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the opinion 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I first thought about whether the payment Miss F made was out of character and 
unusual for her account. While  I recognise  that the payment was slightly higher than 
any payment made in the months prior, I also need to keep  in mind that it is not 
untypical for consumers  to make one-off transactions for this amount  as was the 
Ref: DRN57275802case here for an international flight ticket. The scam payment didnt  clear  Miss Fs 
account or leave  it in a negative position. 
Ive thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. However,  I dont 
find that a payment  to a new payee was in itself suspicious enough to mean  that 
Barclays shouldve considered that Miss F was at risk of financial harm. 
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per its customers 
instruction and monitoring accounts  for unusual and potentially harmful activity. And I 
dont think it would  be fair to say that Barclays shouldve identified  the payment Miss 
F made as suspicious enough  to warrant further  checks  especially given it was for 
a relatively small amount. 
Ive also thought about whether Barclays couldve  done  more to help Miss F once it 
was notified of the scam but I dont think it could. Unfortunately,  I havent  been able 
to find out exactly  when Miss Fs funds were removed from the receiving account  and 
so I have to base my findings on what I think is most likely to have happened. And I 
agree with the Investigator  that its most likely that the funds were removed before 
Barclays were  made aware  of the scam. Fraudsters usually monitor  accounts 
carefully and remove  any funds  as quickly as possible to avoid the victim becoming 
aware and notifying their bank and the funds being returned. There were 3 weeks in 
between Miss F making the payment and notifying  Barclays and Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that Miss Fs funds were  removed  during this time. 
I am very sorry  to hear about  the situation  Miss F has found herself in but I dont think  her 
loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Barclays and so I cant  fairly ask 
Barclays to refund her. The fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5727580