K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Accord Mortgages Limited  unfairly turned down his request for 
additional borrowing. He asks that it changes  its decision.
background
Mr M took out a residential offset mortgage  with Accord  in 2007. He rented out the property. 
Accord gave consent to let and Mr M pays an additional  1% interest. In mid 2018 Mr M 
asked for additional  borrowing. Accord turned down his request, saying it only considers 
requests for additional lending if the borrower lives in the property. 
Mr M says hes made overpayments,  theres  a balance in the offset account and significant 
equity in the property. He says he intends  to move  back  into the property in the future. 
Mr M says hes being unfairly  treated as a buy to let customer. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Accords 
lending criteria say it will only consider  an application for a further advance if the borrower 
lives in the property.  If Mr M moves back into and lives in the property for a period,  Accord  
would consider his application for further borrowing. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He says his risk factor is significantly lower than many borrowers. 
He commented  on Accord treating him as a residential mortgage customer  rather  than a buy 
to let customer, which he says affects  the outcome.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Lenders are entitled to make a commercial  decision  about their lending criteria and whether 
to lend to a customer. We expect lenders to apply their lending  criteria fairly. 
Mr M took out a residential mortgage. The property  has been let out for some  time. 
The mortgage terms and conditions say Mr M needs written  consent from Accord to let out 
the property, which  Accord  has given. So when Mr M applied for additional  lending  he had a 
residential mortgage with consent to let.
Accords website says it doesnt offer additional  lending for buy to let mortgages. Mr M says 
Accord is treating him as a buy to let customer.  I havent seen anything to support this. 
From what  Ive seen, Accord is treating this as a residential mortgage  with consent to let.
Accord says its criteria for additional lending requires the borrower to be living  in the 
property. Mr Ms property  is let out. So he doesnt  meet Accords lending criteria.
Mr M says hes a good credit risk. But this doesnt  affect the outcome here.  Mr M doesnt 
meet Accords criteria  for additional lending because he doesnt live in the property.
Ref: DRN56889182I havent seen  anything to suggest that Accord has treated Mr M unfairly. It follows  that 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Accord to reconsider Mr Ms application or 
change its lending decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5688918