K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down their claim under their 
travel insurance policy when Mr M fell ill abroad. 
Ill use Aviva  to include its assistance  agents.
background
Mr and Mrs M were  on a European holiday when Mr M became dizzy  and collapsed. Mrs M 
called their travel insurer Aviva. 
Aviva asked the hospital for medical reports. It then said it wouldnt cover  the claim.  Aviva 
said the medical reports showed the problem was likely related to an existing heart  issue  
where hed had a stent fitted.  And it said it had told Mr M the previous year that it wouldnt 
cover him for that.
Mrs M said the problem wasnt heart  related. The doctors had told them  Mr M had a virus. 
They moved to a public hospital and say theyd have  done this earlier  if theyd known he 
wasnt covered. 
Aviva said it would help Mr and Mrs M make the arrangements to get home, but it wouldnt 
pay their costs. They made their own way home  and put in a complaint. Aviva said it hadnt 
done anything  wrong so they brought their complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought Aviva  had fairly  turned down the claim. So she didnt uphold it. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree, so the complaints come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive been sorry  to read about Mr Ms illness abroad and clearly it was a distressing time for 
both him and Mrs M. I need to decide  if Aviva  made  a fair decision to turn down his claim. 
And having looked at all the evidence I think it did. So I dont uphold  this complaint.  
The policy says in the important information  that Aviva doesnt cover medical conditions  
apart from those in its list of accepted  conditions. A medical condition includes one for 
which the insured  person has had medication, hospital treatment and/or surgery  in the year 
before booking the holiday. There arent any heart  related accepted conditions  in the policy  
list.
In late 2017 Mr M had called Aviva  to tell it hed had a stent  fitted into one of his arteries. 
Weve got a recording of that call. Aviva told Mr M that it wouldnt be able to cover him for 
medical care or cancellation, as having  a stent fitted  wasnt an accepted condition on its list. 
Aviva clearly  explained it wouldnt be able to cover  his medical condition even if he paid an 
extra premium. And it gave him the telephone number of a different company to try if he 
wanted medical cover for that condition. 
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that they dont think Mr Ms claim was heart related or had 
anything to do with the stent. But I can see that Avivas medical  team reviewed the medical  
Ref: DRN56209302reports from the doctors at both the hospitals where Mr M was treated. The hospital  notes  
show that Mr M had previously had a stent  fitted into an artery  in his heart to treat a heart 
condition. 
Avivas medical team have explained  that many of the tests  Mr M underwent abroad were 
heart related and showed an issue with his heart.  I think Aviva reached a fair decision when 
it said Mr Ms collapse appeared to be directly  or indirectly related to an existing heart 
condition, which it had already explained  he wouldnt be covered for. 
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ms concern  that Mr M had been  treated abroad for a viral 
infection and/or bronchitis. The medical  records sent to Aviva  dont show that that was the 
cause of his collapse. The tests at the first hospital show that he didnt have a fever,  and that 
his chest was clear. So I think Aviva  reached  a fair decision that the claim wasnt  covered 
under the policy.  
Mr and Mrs M say theyd  have transferred to a public hospital earlier if theyd  known their 
claim wasnt covered. They say Aviva told the hospital their claim had been guaranteed. But 
Im afraid the notes  of the calls dont show that Aviva guaranteed payment. It would be 
unusual for it to do that before seeing  the medical reports. Aviva told the hospital  that it 
couldnt guarantee payment until it had looked into Mr Ms medical condition. 
I think Aviva  assessed the claim quickly and gave Mr and Mrs M its decision as soon as it 
reasonably could. I dont think I can fairly say it is responsible for their costs. Aviva  properly 
offered to help Mr and Mrs M in making  arrangements to get home. They  made their own 
plans but I think  it was right that Aviva offered to help even if it wouldnt pay the claim.
I know Mr and Mrs M think that the bank which sold them the policy  misled  them.  Weve 
explained that any complaint about  that would need  to be set up against that bank. So Ive 
not looked into that issue and I havent made any findings on it in this decision about Aviva. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs M have recently sent us a debt recovery  letter  theyve received about  the 
hospital bill that is outstanding, one of three  theyve received. They might want to speak to 
someone at their local Citizens Advice  centre  about  how best to respond.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620930