K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that she was mis-sold  a life and critical illness  policy (life and CIC)  by 
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA).
background
Mrs N took out a loan to buy a car in 2007.  At the same time she was sold a life and CIC 
policy which  wouldve paid off her outstanding  loan if she died or was diagnosed with a 
specific illness. 
Mrs N says she thought  she had to have the policy to get the credit.
The adjudicator thought  Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld.  Not because they thought Mrs 
N didnt have a choice about  it, but because they thought Mrs N didnt need  the life cover.  
PSA disagrees, so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA gave Mrs N a personal  recommendation to buy the life and CIC, so it had a duty to 
make sure any recommendation was suitable for her. I dont  think PSA did this.
Mrs N was single with no dependants  at the time of sale. She didnt need to worry about 
what might  happen  if she left a debt after she died,  unless  she specifically wanted to ensure 
that any beneficiary she did want to leave her estate to didnt have that sum reduced by the 
amount of the outstanding  finance.  I havent seen  any evidence  that this was something Mrs 
N wanted to do, or that it was something she was asked about. 
PSA has provided a copy of the recommendations made as a result of a demands and 
needs assessment  that was completed  at the time of sale. Under the life and critical illness 
section it recommends the cover and gives the reason, You have stated that you do not 
have an existing life and critical illness insurance  policy.  
I cant see any evidence that Mrs Ns needs  in this respect were explored  any further than 
just establishing  that she didnt have  existing cover. This, in itself,  is not a reason to 
recommend such a product. And in Mrs Ns case  I dont think  she needed the life cover. 
In response to the adjudicators view PSA has argued that the life cover would have relieved 
the executor of Mrs Ns estate of the liability for any further payment under the agreement.  
But the executor  would have had no personal responsibility for any of Mrs Ns outstanding 
debts. Any payment would have come  from Mrs Ns estate. If there was nothing  in the estate 
to pay off the outstanding sums  after all her assets (including the car she was buying with 
the loan) then any remaining creditors would lose out. I dont  think  Mrs N wouldve thought  
that paying for life cover  to protect creditors such as PSA would have been something shed 
want to do. And I havent seen any evidence Mrs N wanted to protect  her estate for the 
benefit of a friend or relative. 
So I dont  think the recommendation  to Mrs N to buy life cover was appropriate  and Mrs N 
lost out as a result.
Ref: DRN59899672putting things right
The cost of the life element couldnt  be separated  out from the cost of the critical illness  
cover, so even though the critical illness cover may have been suitable  for Mrs N she 
couldnt have  bought  it on its own. So to put things right PSA should put Mrs N in the 
position shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken  out the entire life and CIC policy. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and PSA should:
Pay Mrs N the amount she paid each month for the life and CIC.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the CIC element  of the policy, PSA can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.  
If PSA has made any payment to Mrs N in relation to undisclosed commission  or 
profit share, PSA can take off what Mrs N received  from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  PSA to take off tax from this interest.  PSA must  give Mrs N a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5989967