K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) which was attached to their existing mortgage. 
background
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M took out PPI to cover their existing borrowing. The policy  was in      
Mr Ms sole name and covered him if he was made  unemployed or if he was unable  to work 
due to being too unwell.  
Mr and Mrs M have  explained they took out the policy after Mrs M was made unemployed 
and they were concerned that they wouldnt be able to cover their mortgage  repayments if 
Mr M was also made unemployed so they wanted  to cover themselves for that possible risk. 
Mr M was made unemployed a few years later and when Mr and Mrs M tried to make  a 
claim, they werent  able to because Mr M had two jobs  so would have been unlikely to be 
able to claim under the cover. Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide and it refunded  the 
premiums paid for the unemployment element of their policy.
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that this didnt resolve  their complaint, as they were unhappy 
they had been sold both parts to the policy when they only wanted unemployment cover.  
Theyve explained they had savings they couldve used and Mr M had substantial sick pay 
so having the accident and sickness part of the policy wasnt  useful for them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree  so the case was 
passed to me to decide. I issued my provision decision in July 2019 (a copy  is attached  at 
the end of this decision), explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Nationwide  
responded to say it had received the provisional  decision but had nothing  further  to add. 
Mr and Mrs M responded with a number of detailed points they wanted me to consider. I 
have summarised them  below:
They dont agree that Mr M wouldnt have been affected by the exclusion for accident  
and sickness due to the nature of his second  job.
They are clear  that the policy came as a package and there  wasnt any choice to 
choose different  levels of cover.   If there  had been, they wouldve asked what each 
part cost, as they wanted a cheaper option. In fact they say that Mr M recalls asking if 
there was a cheaper option. They would still like to know  the cost of each component  
part. They say they have asked for this on a number of occasions but Nationwide  
hasnt told them. 
They feel I didnt consider all the other means  they had. They  have pointed  out that 
they had a considerable amount of savings they couldve used to cover  their 
mortgage repayments had Mr M been too unwell to work. 
They do not believe the information was sufficient for them to make  a clear choice.
Ref: DRN59862272my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Would Mr M have  been affected  in claiming  for accident and sickness under the terms of the 
policy due to the nature of his second  job? 
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ms comments around Mr Ms second  job. Ive also 
reviewed the terms of the policy  but I havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr M wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions. And despite the risks involved in Mr Ms 
second job, I think its unlikely that, had Mr M needed to use the policy  because  of an 
accident caused during his job, that this wouldnt have  been covered.
Was there an option to select  different parts to the policy?
My opinion on this point remains the same  from my provisional decision. Looking at 
everything Ive been given   as well as considering what we know about how Nationwide 
sold policies  such as this at the time  I think they wouldve had the option  to choose the 
level of cover they wanted. 
I also note that on previous applications,  Mr and Mrs M had chosen  different levels  of cover,  
so I also think its likely  they wouldve known  it was an option on this occasion.
Nothing in what  Mr and Mrs M have told me, makes me think that Nationwide did anything  
significantly different during this sale. 
Mr and Mrs Ms other means
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M have shown that they had a very generous amount of 
savings. But as I have  found above, its most  likely they couldve selected  to have a lesser  
cover so they likely  considered the accident and sickness cover a useful benefit for their 
circumstances. 
And as Ive explained  in my provisional  decision  by covering  their mortgage repayments in 
the event of Mr M being too unwell to work  wouldve meant they could have used those 
savings for other things.        
The information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if        
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN59862273But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr M being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance  indeed Mr and Mrs M have said they wanted the protection.  The  information   
Mr and Mrs M were  given  about benefit  was clear. But the information about other aspects of 
the policy, such as the cost wasnt  as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide  told them the exact premium of each 
option at the point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs M 
would have been told the cost of the options available before  the policy started, so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with Nationwide at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the cover for accident and sickness  cover.  
The policy was sufficiently  close to what its likely  they thought  they were getting  and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr M was unable to 
work through  the accident or disability.  
So Nationwide doesnt have to repay all the costs of the policy.  But Nationwide has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr and Mrs M feel strongly  and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put 
time and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve 
raised. But for the reasons  explained in my provisional decision  and above,  these points  
dont change my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN59862274But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) which was attached to their existing mortgage.  
background
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M took out PPI to cover their existing borrowing. The policy was in      Mr Ms 
sole name and covered him if he was made unemployed  or if he was unable to work  due to being too 
unwell. 
Ref: DRN59862275Mr and Mrs M have  explained they took out the policy after Mrs M was made  unemployed  and they 
were concerned that they wouldnt be able to cover their mortgage repayments if Mr M was also made  
unemployed so they wanted  to cover  themselves for that possible risk. 
Mr M was made  unemployed a few years later and when Mr and Mrs M tried to make a claim,  they 
werent able to because Mr M had two jobs  so wouldnt have be eligible for the cover. Mr and Mrs M 
complained to Nationwide and it refunded the premiums paid for the unemployment element of their 
policy.
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that this didnt  resolve  their complaint,  as they were unhappy they had 
been sold all three parts to the policy when they only wanted unemployment cover. Theyve  explained 
they had savings they couldve used and Mr M had substantial sick pay so having the accident and 
sickness parts  of the policy wasnt useful for them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree  so the case  has been passed to 
me to decide.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Nationwide has refunded  the unemployment  element of Mr and Mrs Ms policy so I dont need to 
consider this any closer.  So it is left for me to make a decision on whether  Nationwide mis-sold the 
remaining part of Mr and Mrs Ms policy.
Id firstly like to stress that, while Ive only included  a summary of what Mr and Mrs M have told us 
about their complaint, Ive carefully read and considered everything  theyve said in reaching my 
decision. 
Im thinking  of not upholding their complaint. I will explain  my reasons  for reaching this conclusion  in 
detail below.
Nationwide had to make Mr and Mrs M aware they had a choice in taking out the policy. As Mr and 
Mrs M have told us that they asked  to have the policy, I dont need  to consider  this point any further. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt  have to check  if it was suitable for 
them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide if it was 
right for them.  
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M 
about the limitations  and exclusions of the policy wasnt as clear as it should  have been. But Mr and 
Mrs M chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions  
to or limits on the PPI cover  for accident and sickness  such as any existing medical conditions.  
One of Mr and Mrs Ms main  complaint  points is that they werent told they could choose the level of 
cover they could have, as they only wanted unemployment cover for Mr M. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a copy of the PPI application form Mr and Mrs M completed to 
take out the policy.  It thinks  this is because  Mr and Mrs M possibly didnt complete a physical form but 
instead the details for the application were entered directly into the computer system. But it has 
provided a copy of an application form that is likely  to have been completed if a form was filled in. Ive 
also seen a copy  of the confirmation letter Mr and Mrs M received once the policy  had been  set up. 
Ref: DRN59862276The sample  copy  of the PPI application form shows different types of level of cover  that can be taken  
and the option to have  30 or 60 days excess periods. Ive thought  about  what  would have happened if 
Mr and Mrs M didnt complete a physical form, but just had the details of their application entered into 
a computer system.  And having done this, I think its most likely they would have been  asked to make 
the same choices  as the application form lays out. That being   they are most likely  to have been 
asked to choose  what  type of cover they wanted and how long an excess  they required.  
In the confirmation letter it lists Section 1  Disablement  (Nationwides name  for accident and 
sickness cover)  and Section  2  Unemployment  for the cover which  makes me think there were  
separate parts  to the policy and Mr and Mrs M selected both parts to cover Mr M.  
So  on balance  I think  Nationwide most likely made it clear there were separate  parts  to the policy 
that couldve been selected,  although I understand why Mr and Mrs M dont remember this now.  
Another of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint points  is that they didnt need or want the accident or sickness 
elements to the PPI as they had enough  other means to cover their mortgage repayments. 
They say that Mr M had generous sick pay benefits from his main  employer at the time but havent 
been able to give much  detail around the breakdown of this cover  such as how much Mr M wouldve 
received as full pay and if any wouldve been less than full pay. Mr and Mrs M have  been able to 
provide information that Mr Ms second job wouldve provided 12 months full pay followed by six 
months half pay but the policy wouldve paid out for a maximum of 24 months and this wouldve  been 
in addition to the sick pay benefits Mr M was entitled  to. 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided  a lot of information about how much savings they had at the time. Mrs M 
had received her redundancy pay-out  and they had other savings as well. They say these  savings, 
combined with Mr Ms sick pay benefit meant they couldve managed if Mr M was too sick to work  
without the need for the policy. But by having  the cover for accident and sickness, had Mr M ever 
been too unwell to work,  they could  have  used the savings for what  they were intended for. Or these 
savings couldve been used to pay for other essential costs. 
Mr and Mrs M say that at the time they took the policy, they were  concerned about  their outgoings 
and the cost of the full policy was an outgoing they didnt need at the time.  But they asked for the 
cover. And the costs of the policy were  listed on the confirmation letter they received and there was 
the option  to speak to Nationwide if they had any queries or concerns. So I think  they wouldve  been 
aware of the costs involved and I dont  think better information would  have put them  off taking out the 
PPI.
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out by anything Nationwide might have done wrong. So 
Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all the costs  of the PPI.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN5986227