K820x#14complaint
Ms Ms complaint concerns a POIS  Tax Exempt Junior Bond started for her by her father, 
Mr M, with a predecessor of The Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society Limited. Ms M 
and Mr M are primarily unhappy that the bond remained invested beyond  its initial  payment 
term, so the value Ms M received when she surrendered the bond  was less than had been 
previously indicated.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Ms Ms complaint,  a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
I noted that the bond didnt actually mature in September 2018 but rather it reached the end 
of the initial  payment term,  at which point a number of options were  available. 
As such,  I didnt think Foresters had acted incorrectly in leaving the bond  invested, as 
effectively the default  option, until the point in October 2018  when Ms M surrendered it. 
I also confirmed that I didnt think Mr M had been given incorrect  information in a call hed 
had with Foresters. And I was satisfied that Foresters was correct  to address 
correspondence directly  to Ms M once she had reached the age of 18.
Foresters confirmed it had nothing  further  to add in response to my provisional  decision. 
Mr M responded to say 
He believes the entire  process set up for the benefactor of the policy is flawed.  To 
send a single correspondence to someone who didnt take out the policy  and expect 
a prompt reply  isnt practical.  Family circumstances couldve changed and the 
benefactor may no longer be at the address on file. 
Is it not reasonable that the person who invested in the policy should be made aware 
of the circumstances and be able to prompt the benefactor? Is it fair for an 18-year 
old who has no experience of financial decisions to make one without reasonable 
time or support?
I had indicated in the decision that Mr M selected a 15-year term. But he had no 
reason to believe that this was not the date the policy would  mature on. At no stage 
was it ever explained that a child's  saving  plan would not mature at the term 
selected. 
Hed like me to consider how a layperson  would know that the policy wouldnt mature 
after the term signed up to. Hed suggest that he wasnt  the only one believing this 
given the correspondence from the investigator and Foresters. In all correspondence 
with POIS and then Foresters, the terminology used was always a 'children's plan',  
so its reasonable  to have expected maturity at adulthood.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN51226642I appreciate the issue of the policy reaching  the end of the initial payment term, rather  than 
actually maturing, hadnt previously been raised. That was why I felt it was important to issue 
a provisional decision,  to give both parties  opportunity to comment in light of that issue. But 
having considered Mr Ms additional comments Ive not been persuaded to change  my view. 
I note what hes said about  the flaws, or potential flaws, in the process of communicating  the 
end of the initial payment term to Ms M. But I dont think  it was unreasonable  to write to her 
as an adult at the address it held on file to explain what was happening. I accept she could 
have moved, but I think if she had done  its likely the letter wouldve then been forwarded to 
her. 
But in any event, Ms M was at the address on file and she did receive the letter.  And while it 
may have  been  her first experience of this sort of financial  arrangement I think  the letter was 
quite clear in explaining the situation.  And, further, it did suggest  that If someone else is 
paying for your policy, youll also need  to discuss your decision with them and theyll  need to 
sign the Options  Form too.
I appreciate too Mr Ms point about not having been made aware at any point that the policy  
didnt actually mature at adulthood, particularly  in light of it being a child  or junior bond. But 
looking at all the documentation none of it makes  reference to maturity   with the exception 
of the original terms which do explain that maturity  would eventually occur, but only if the 
bond was continued to the holders 85th birthday.
As I noted  in my provisional decision, I accept that the references  to the bonds maturity 
made in the course of the handling  of the complaint have not helped  clarify the situation. But 
I nevertheless remain of the view that Foresters acted  correctly in respect of the 
administration and surrender of Ms Ms bond.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision  my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51226643COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms Ms complaint concerns a POIS Tax Exempt Junior  Bond started for her by her father, 
Mr M, with a predecessor of The Ancient Order of Foresters  Friendly Society Limited. Ms M and Mr M 
are primarily  unhappy that the bond remained invested beyond  its initial payment term,  so the value 
Ms M received when she surrendered the bond was less than had been previously indicated.
background
Mr M started  the unit-linked bond for Ms M in 2003.  It was set up with monthly  premiums of £25 for an 
initial payment term of 15 years, after which Ms M would  be offered options for how to proceed.
In August 2018 Ms M was sent a letter explaining that the policy  would reach its options date on 30 
September 2018. It explained the options  available  to Ms M and that if none was actively selected the 
default option  would be for the bond to remain  invested but with no further premiums applied. 
The letter gave an indicative value for the bond of £7,086.95 at that point.  Ms M chose to surrender it 
and this was done, once all the required documentation was received by Foresters, as of 18 October  
2018. By this time the price of the units in which the bond was invested had fallen, meaning  the sum 
received by Ms M was only £6,713.54.
Mr M then then queried this with Foresters,  particularly  in the context  of a statement  he had received  
in the interim dated 30 September 2018, which showed a value  for the bond at that point of 
£7,090.93. 
Mr M and his daughter  ultimately werent  satisfied with Foresters explanation  of what had happened. 
They were particularly unhappy that the default option for the bond had been to keep it invested.  Mr M 
also felt hed been misled in a telephone conversation with Foresters. 
They referred  the matter to this service.  But our investigator didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. He felt, in brief, that the letter sent to Ms M explaining her options was clear, in particular  with 
reference to the default option. He felt the bond had been administered in line with its original  terms 
and that Mr M had been given a satisfactory explanation of what had happened  in his phone  
conversation with Foresters.  
As Ms M and Mr M didnt  agree, the matters been referred to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im of broadly the same view as the investigator, 
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But my reasons for reaching that conclusion are slightly 
different to those of the investigator. So, Ive issued  a provisional decision  to give all parties a final 
chance to comment. 
I think  its important to stress that, despite all the references  that have been  made  to it doing  so, 
Ms Ms bond didnt  actually mature. The letter  sent to her of 6 August 2018 explained that the bond,  
or policy, was reaching its options date.  The bond would only actually mature in very specific 
circumstances, as set out in the original terms: 
The Bond matures on the policy anniversary immediately  preceding the Members 85th birthday but 
can be cashed in before this date. Premiums  are initially payable  for the period  of years  shown on the 
Policy Schedule from the Policy Start Date. If not previously cashed in the policy will cease on the 
policy anniversary immediately preceding the Members 85th birthday  and at that time the Society will 
pay the unit value of the policy.
Ref: DRN51226644What occurred in September 2018,  and what the letter was alerting Ms M to, was the end of the 
bonds initial  payment term  not the maturity of the bond. This was in keeping with the original 
application form, which  had asked Mr M to select a premium payment term of between 10 and 25 
years. He chose 15 years. After that term the policy  wouldnt  mature but instead a selection of options 
would become available. The terms said:
8. Continuation of the policy
The following options will become available  at the end of the initial payment term:
Continue making payments and extend the payment term by another ten years,  and another  
ten years hence provided the policyholders 85th birthday does  not occur within the extended 
term.
Leave  the money invested.
Transfer the moneys into other such funds as may be available.
Encash the policy for its full value.
Take  out a new policy.
Full details of the different  options  will be provided towards the end of the initial payment  term of the 
policy.
And these  options are broadly what the August 2018 letter to Ms M set out. And its why I ultimately 
dont think it was wrong or unreasonable for Foresters to make the default option the continuation of 
the investment. The documentation all supports that the bond was always intended to operate in that 
way. 
I appreciate that the various references to the bond maturing in September  2018 made during the 
course of correspondence have, in turn, not made understating the situation easy  for Ms M and Mr M. 
Had the bond  actually  matured I would  agree that making continued  investment (and ongoing 
exposure to market volatility)  the default option  would be questionable. But because the bond  
operates as it does, I think it was correct and reasonable  for the money  to remain  invested until 
Foresters received a request  for it to be surrendered. 
It was, of course, unfortunate  that the unit price fell as much as it did between  August  2018 and 
October 2018. But that is the nature  of this type of investment. And Ive checked that the prices were  
correct and they were.  
Further, Ive listened  to the call in which Mr M feels he was misinformed and dont feel that the adviser  
gave incorrect information. In much the same way as the references to the bond maturing have not 
helped matters, I dont think the explanation  in the phone call was as helpful as it couldve  been  it 
was, after all, a good opportunity to explain things as Ive done above. But overall, I dont think  it was 
actually wrong or misleading.
In respect of Foresters  writing to Ms M about the bonds options rather than to Mr M, whod paid the 
premiums, I again can understand his frustration. But when the August 2018 letter was written  Ms M 
had turned 18 and was the legal owner of the bond. So, I think Foresters acted correctly in this 
respect too. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  I dont  intend to uphold the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN5122664