K820x#14complaint
Mr E says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr E bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E in the event of accident, sickness, and unemployment,   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £200 a month  towards Mr Es 
mortgage balance  and associated costs in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £11.88 a month. 
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a welder fabricator and had worked  in that job for six 
years. He told us he was entitled to between  six and 12 months sick pay. HSBC provided 
evidence from the point of sale which suggested that Mr E wasnt entitled  to any sick pay at 
the relevant time. Mr E said he had some savings of around  £2,000  and thats consistent 
with the information provided  to us by HSBC which shows he had around £3,000  in a 
savings account  when the cover  was sold. 
Mr E told us that hed had a number of childhood  illnesses  in the 1960s, namely chicken pox, 
mumps and measles. I havent been  told that any of those conditions  caused Mr E to have 
any ongoing medical problems. And thats  consistent with the electronic information provided 
by HSBC in which it was recorded  that Mr E said he had no ongoing medical conditions at 
the point of sale.  
Mr E also told us that he would have  been  entitled to a redundancy payment  if hed lost his 
job, and that his employer had a death in service  scheme. Mr E questioned whether he 
would have been able to claim  on the PPI policy at all because he said his occupation would  
have been deemed high  risk. 
HSBC provided us with evidence  from Mr Es conveyancer, which suggests that his 
mortgage was redeemed in 2005.  I note that despite  a lengthy response to our adjudicators 
view, Mr Es representatives did not take issue with that redemption date. 
As I said,  Mr Es representative  made lengthy and substantial  representations on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Es representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr E wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Es representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN56403192claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr E and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
As I said above, the credit agreement itself concluded in 2005 That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN56403193complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN56403194-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr E sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr E, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr E suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr E and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr E know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
It wasnt specifically argued  that HSBC  didnt make it clear to Mr E that he had a choice 
about whether  to buy the PPI. However, I do note it was stated in the PPI questionnaire that 
PPI was included  as part of a package  alongside the mortgage. 
I have been provided with a copy of HSBCs records from the sale. I can see that a number 
of optional products  were  offered to Mr E at the relevant time. He appears to have agreed to 
PPI whilst refusing other products at the same time. I can see the PPI premiums were  also 
set up to be taken  separately from his bank account.  So if the insurance was sold as being 
part of the mortgage, I dont think Mr E would have thought he could pick and choose which 
products he could buy. And its unlikely the PPI would have been presented as part of the 
mortgage if it had to be paid for separately. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr E knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Looking at the paperwork thats  available  from the time, I can see that HSBC  recommended  
PPI to Mr E after taking full account  of his personal  circumstances.  On that basis,  Ive 
treated this as an advised sale, which means  HSBC  had to advise Mr E with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs 
and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr E. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr Es financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application. But although  a demands and needs statement was completed 
Ref: DRN56403195to try and establish whether Mr E had a need  for the policy   by asking questions about his 
wider circumstances  such as any health issues and existing means  I dont think it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I cant  see that it explored whether Mr 
E was a permanent employee. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr E given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr E, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr E met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-I think Mr E had a need for the policy.  Whilst  I appreciate Mr E told us he had some 
substantial sick pay, this is at odds with what he appears to have told HSBC  at the 
relevant time. I think its most likely that he didnt  have contractual sick pay and so it 
seems likely that Mr Es ability to continue to meet his mortgage repayments would 
have been put under strain if he was not working  for an extended period of time. 
Even if I am wrong  on that point  and Mr E did have at least  six months  sick pay, with 
PPI, he could have  retained those funds for his other essential expenditure at what 
would have no doubt been a stressful  time if he was out of work. I appreciate Mr E 
would have had a redundancy payment, but given how long hed been with his 
employer, I dont  think it would have lasted for as long as the PPI policy.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr E.  
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr E. Mr E says 
he was in a high-risk  occupation. I havent been  given any information specifically as 
to what that high risk may have been.  But in any event, the policy  didnt exclude 
claims based on occupation. There was nothing about Mr Es employment or 
occupation which would have made  it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing 
medical conditions,  Mr E has told us about  various  childhood illnesses. But those  
conditions were  diagnosed almost 40 years  before the cover was sold.  I cant 
reasonably say they were enduring at the point  of sale and so I dont think  they would 
have affected  his ability to make  a disability claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Es 
circumstances.
-I appreciate Mr E said he would have  been  entitled to a death  in service payment  
from his employer. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event  of his 
death and not in the same  circumstances  as the PPI policy.  
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr E sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN56403196the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr E was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr E would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr E agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr E Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable.  Im not persuaded HSBC gave  Mr E all of the information he needed about  
the policy to make an informed decision about  whether to follow the recommendation and 
take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Es representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Es. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Es representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Es representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr E suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that HSBC ought  to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr E? To what extent did Mr E suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr E. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr E suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr E would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN56403197While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr E, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr E suffered loss or damage in 
this case primarily  depends on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, Mr E would 
have acted differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr E says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr E had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Es circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr E was given about the cost was probably 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr E would  get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Es expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr E thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims which occurred within  the first 12 months of the policy as 
a result of any medical condition for which treatment had been given, or diagnosis 
made, or investigations commenced during the 12 months  immediately before the 
policy started. It also excluded any chronic  or continuing medical  condition  which  Mr 
E knew about on the date the policy started; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN56403198I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr E pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr E from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr E wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions he didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions, his childhood illnesses being many  years before, and he was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think he had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr E would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
HSBC may not have  told Mr E that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr E would  have received full sick pay for and his statutory  
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr E would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr E be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr E would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr E 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Es representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN56403199presumed Mr E would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr E 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr E in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr E compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr E thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr E, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Es representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr E and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr E in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN564031910Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5640319