K821x#15complaint
Mr D complained about the advice he received from Croesus Financial Services Limited 
(Croesus) regarding his pension transfer  and investment.
background
Mr D said he had existing pensions with two insurance companies. Following advice from 
Croesus, the pension  funds were transferred to a new provider in autumn 2012. The funds  
went into a pension drawdown arrangement. Despite  his medium attitude  to risk the funds  
were not invested  and remained  in cash.  Due to the lack of investment return  a review of his 
drawdown was triggered  which brought this to light. Had he been invested  as the original 
illustrations showed  he said he would not now be facing a reduced pension. He wanted 
Croesus to compensate him for the lost investment return and the cost of further financial 
advice.
Croesus said the original  intention  was to transfer  the funds in specie. But the insurance 
company said it wasnt able to accept such  a transfer due to the investment markets at the 
time. It said that having discussed it with Mr D he decided to leave the money in cash  
pending further instructions. There was a further  discussion with Mr D in early 2013  when he 
said he didnt want to invest  in the markets at that time as they were  high.  It said it wasnt  a 
discretionary fund manager and couldnt  invest any client funds without client  approval. They 
ceased to be adviser  to Mr D in November 2016  so were unable  to make any changes 
thereafter. Mr D wouldve received full valuations with fund details every 6 months  and he 
was able to contact Croesus to discuss his investments at any time.  Croesus  was also in the 
habit of making contact  yearly but had no file note to show it had. During the period from 
February 2013 to November 2016  the market rose by 15.5%. It accepted it couldve chased 
Mr D more proactively. Without any admission  of liability it offered a payment of £6,000 into 
his pension which it said after tax relief would increase this to £7,500.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I summary I said the terms and conditions  for 
Croesus make clear it is authorised to give investment advice and to advise on pension  
transfers. There is no accompanying  letter  to suggest that it narrowed the scope of its advice 
to exclude investment advice. I also said the made the following comments.
It is clear from the papers  that it was originally anticipated the pension money would be 
invested. I say that because  the illustrations provided for Mr D in July and September  2012  
reflect 98% investment  in a mixed investment (40% to 85%) shares fund.  Croesus also says 
this was the fund that was to be used  had the transfer been in specie. It said the change  to a 
cash transfer meant this wasnt possible. I note the existing  investment in the transferring 
funds were also of a similar type. Given the transfer switched to cash it shouldve been 
possible to immediately invest in the pre identified  fund.
It seems  reasonable to expect Croesus would provide investment advice as part of its remit 
to implement the transfer and ensure it was implemented. The illustrations show a clear and 
continuing intention  to invest in a fund that had already  been  identified and appears similar 
to those in the transferring schemes. So it seems it mustve advised  on this as it is included 
in the papers.
Ref: DRN51915362Croesus suggest the transfer in specie  wasnt possible.  But even if for some reason  it wasnt 
possible, as Croesus  suggest, it isnt clear why the cash wasnt  immediately invested  in the 
fund pre identified  fund after the transfer.  
The adviser was arranging and advising on the transfer so I think it is reasonable to assume 
that it shouldve  ensured the investment was done or have made a clear record why that 
wasnt appropriate. I think Croesus  made a mistake in failing to ensure the money was 
invested on transfer.
I have considered that Croesus says it isnt a discretionary fund manager but an adviser. 
While I accept it would need client instructions  to change  investments its reasonable to 
expect it wouldve given  investment advice to Mr D including  exploring whether  cash was a 
suitable investment  and considering the risk of remaining in cash. There is no evidence this 
happened. I dont think the inability to effect  a change of investment relieved Croesus  of 
responsibility to ensure  Mr D was suitably advised and support him in implementing any 
investment advice.
I have considered the note of conversation in early 2013 regarding remaining  in cash. Given 
Croesus shouldve  been giving investment advice I mightve expected to see it chasing  the 
investment much earlier and having records to show that it was doing that, but there arent 
any such records. 
The call note lacks any detail and refers  to concerns the market was high and might  fall 
giving an opportunity to benefit. It says Mr D made  the decision to stay in cash. However I 
might reasonably have  expected the conversation  to have included comment about the risk 
of remaining  in cash and issues  such as inflation risk, the challenges of trying to time 
investment when the market is falling, and warning  about the need to have investments that 
matched his needs. But there is no evidence of such  a discussion.
Further there is no evidence of any plan to monitor the markets by Mr D or Croesus to 
support reinvestment  when the market fell or to continue to monitor.  I think  as the retained 
adviser in receipt  of ongoing payments its reasonable to expect a plan to be discussed  and 
put in place. I say that because cash wasnt an appropriate longer terms investment for Mr D 
as it didnt match his investment requirements  to support his pension.
I have considered that Mr D was provided  with regular investment reports  and mightve been 
aware he remained in cash. Mr D says he wasnt in the habit  of reading these and relied  on 
Croesus to advise him. I note also that Croesus was the appointed adviser for the plan and 
continued to receive  payments from it. I think it was reasonable for Mr D to assume that 
Croesus would  advise him and monitor his plan and ask if he wanted advice. It admits  it has 
no record to show it did this, even  on an annual basis. The 2013 note shows  it was fully 
aware he was in cash and wouldve known this wasnt a suitable investment to support his 
needs.
I think Croesus failed to provide suitable investment advice and failed to ensure the money  
was invested on transfer. It continued  to fail to provide suitable investment advice or support 
to Mr D about investment  until it ceased to be adviser to the plan in 2016. So I think Croesus 
should be responsible for the loss that has resulted from the failure  to implement the planned 
investment during that time.
I think the loss should  be measured  by reference  to an appropriate index as suggested by 
the adjudicator.
Ref: DRN51915363Other issues
This service has inquisitorial  powers so it isnt limited to considering only the issues set out 
in the original complaint. I have asked about any discussions regarding the level of pension 
that was started  in 2013.
I note the illustrations issued in 2012 at the time of the transfer show  a manual addition  
recording an income required  of £6,662.98  gross  with effect  from August 2013.  The 
illustration of portfolio  for the receiving scheme and dated 31/10/2012, shows the maximum 
GAD income  he could  take from the post retirement part of his portfolio  was about £4,250 
per annum.  It also indicated that if he bought an annuity he could receive an income  of 
around £4,400  per year. The notes  further record that investment growth of between  2 and 
3% per annum would be needed to allow a pension of £4,425 to be paid and leave enough 
to buy an annuity  to continue a similar  level of pension at age 75.
Mr D started to draw his pension in mid 2013  just as the illustration suggested and he says 
he draws a pension  of around £6,000.  Some time later he had a review and had to switch 
from capped to flexi access  drawdown due to the level of pension. He said that had he been 
invested as per the illustration he wouldnt have had to switch  to flexi access. Mr D said he 
had to pay for further advice which had cost £1,123.17.
So based  on the illustrations it seems pension was considered and a requirement identified  
in 2012 when the transfer took place. It seems reasonable to conclude  that Croesus mustve 
advised on this. 
Given the significantly higher level of income indicated as desired and taken, and the 
indications about  investment it would seem that cash was wholly  inappropriate investment. 
Further the level of pension requested was most likely not sustainable  given the level 
indicated by the Government Actuaries  Department.
Mr D has advised his only other income  is his state pension of £11,000.  It would seem  he 
was heavily reliant on the additional income from his private pension and that paying at such  
a high level would most likely be unsuitable.  
Given income was clearly considered by Croesus  I think the advice that mustve  been 
provided was not the most  suitable  for Mr Ds circumstances and income needs. 
However I have asked Mr D why he took pension at the level he did. I also asked whether he 
would still have taken  at this level had he known  it was unsustainable. He said that he had a 
need to meet costs to replace a car previously provided by work and wanted money for 
holidays and house maintenance. He said he would still have taken the higher pension  even 
if hed known it wasnt sustainable but he said he believed that had the fund been invested  
differently the fund value wouldve been higher and the sustainability better. He said the 
money had been  spent  as he planned.
I considered any loss due to drawing pension at a higher level than the guidelines indicated. 
I note that Mr D has had the income so he hasnt lost out. While his future pension  may now 
be less sustainable,  he says he would still have made the same  decision again. I also note 
that he had to pay for further advice that might not otherwise have been needed had the 
investment return been higher. I agree that further  investment advice  shouldnt  have been 
Ref: DRN51915364needed. So while  I am not making  an award  for taking pension at a higher level,  I do think 
that the cost of the further investment advice should be reimbursed.
distress and inconvenience
I have considered the impact these events mustve  had on Mr D and in particular that the 
failure to invest and means his future pension payments are much less sustainable. For 
someone of his age without the ability to add to those assets that must be concerning.  In the 
light of that I think that an award of £500  would be fair and reasonable. 
I proposed to uphold  this complaint.
I proposed to direct that Croesus  Financial Services Limited should pay Mr D the following:-
£500 in respect  of distress and inconvenience
£1,123.17  for further advice costs plus interest  at the rate of 8% per annum simple  
from the date Mr D confirms he paid those charges until the date this service  
confirms Mr D accepts my final decision  in this complaint.
The amount  of lost investment return to put Mr D as close to the position he wouldve 
been in now if he had been given  suitable advice. I proposed  this was measured 
using an index. Given Mr Ds stated medium risk profile I thought the most 
appropriate index  this service would suggest  is the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income total return index.
Mr D had nothing further to add. 
Croesus said:-
Their status shouldnt absolve Mr D of his duty of care. He was provided with 
statements and should share  responsibility for investment  particularly as he 
instructed them  to leave the money  in cash.  The current ruling absolved  him of 
responsibility. They said there  was good  law to show  he should mitigate his loss.
At no time had Croesus argued  they are advisers,  what  has been  stated is they have 
no discretionary investment powers  so they can only invest money into any funds 
with the clients  consent. Mr Ds last instruction was to leave the funds in cash.  If 
Croesus had acted as stated  in the provisional ruling Croesus would  have been  
acting as a discretionary  fund manager and in breach of regulator rules. 
Whilst it agreed in part that Croesus  should have done more to chase Mr D 
proactively, the fact is that Mr D also had responsibility for his own inaction  being fully 
aware where the funds were invested  and indeed he was the individual who 
instructed that the funds should  remain in cash.
They believed a more  reasonable  remedy would be to award 100% of the loss for the 
first year,  50% of the loss for the second  year,  and 25% of the loss for the third, and 
none thereafter. The basis for this would be that Croesus was wrong to have 
accepted Mr Ds instruction to stay in cash without providing sufficient  investment  
advice. Whilst it did not agree with this it would be 100% responsible for the first 
years loss due to not providing  such advice. In respect of the second  year,  it said 
Ref: DRN51915365that both the advisor and the customer have equal  responsibility in making sure such 
a review happens, and therefore  given it didnt, and given both parties would have 
been aware it didnt  take place, they were equally responsible. In the third year,  there 
is clearly a greater responsibility on the customer given  there  had been no review for 
2 years,  and so to find Croesus entirely  liable thereby  mitigating  the clients own 
responsibility, is clearly unreasonable. 
It said the customer should be fully responsible for their affairs when  they know  they 
had not received advice, and therefore it felt the award did need to take this into 
account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not changed my 
mind for the reasons  below.
Mr D appointed Croesus and they were paid to act as his adviser. They  cannot be absolved 
from what they were paid to do because Mr D didnt chase them. They  were  paid to provide 
a service but failed  to do so. Further Mr D did mitigate his loss in that as soon as he was 
aware he paid to take investment advice  an acted on it. This also suggests that had he been 
appropriately advised at the time he would most likely have acted on that advice.
I do not agree that my proposed direction would mean they were acting in breach  of FCA 
rules. It is clear  from what happened  later that Mr D wouldve followed appropriate 
investment advice and taken actions or provided consent for the adviser to take steps to 
implement that advice on his behalf.  
I do not agree that Mr D was responsible for remaining in cash. He was asked to make an 
investment decision  devoid  of any advice  or assessment  of risks so he cannot  be said to 
have understood  or appreciated the impact  of such a decision nor was any plan put in place  
to monitor the position  in readiness to enter the market. It is for that reason that I do not 
apportion any liability  to Mr D for that decision.
Croesus was contracted to provide an ingoing service so cannot be absolved  of its 
contractual obligations just because Mr D didnt notice and didnt chase them when they 
failed to undertake  annual  reviews.  For that reason I do not think  their proposal  to reduce 
liability over time is fair or reasonable.
Ref: DRN51915366my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that that Croesus Financial Services Limited  should pay Mr D the following:-
£500 in respect  of distress and inconvenience
£1,123.17  for further advice costs plus interest  at the rate of 8% per annum simple  
from the date Mr D confirms he paid those charges until the date this service  
confirms Mr D accepts my final decision  in this complaint.
The amount  of the lost investment return to put Mr D as close to the position  he 
wouldve been in now if he had been given suitable advice. This is measured using an 
index. Given Mr Ds stated medium risk profile I think the most appropriate index this 
service would suggest is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return  index . 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market  Income  total return index).
To compensate Mr D fairly, Croesus  Financial  Services Limited  must  pay Mr D the amount  
calculated as set out below,
Croesus Financial Services Limited should compare the performance of Mr Ds pension fund 
with that of the benchmark shown above  from the date of the transfers in to his pension  in 
2012 to the date they ceased to be appointed  adviser on 6 December 2016. 
If there is a loss the compensation is the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. The amount of loss should then be increased by 8% per annum simple from 6 
December 2016  to the date we advise it Mr D has accepts my final decision. 
That calculation should assume no charges were payable.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Mr Ds 
current 
pension set 
up by 
Croesus  in 
2012Still 
exists  FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index  Date of each 
transfer into 
Mr Ds 
pension  plan 
set up by 
Croesus  
(these were 
between 
September  
and 
November 
2012)6 December 
20168% simple  a 
year from 7 
December  
2016 to the 
date of this 
decision
Ref: DRN51915367actual value
This means  the actual value of the Mr Ds pension scheme set up by Croesus at 6 
December 2016.
fair value
This is what  the pension  investment would have  been worth at 6 December 2016 had it 
produced a return using the benchmark  from the date of the transfer in to 6 December 2016.
Croesus should provide the details  of the calculation  to Mr D in a clear, simple  format.
If it isnt possible for Croesus  Financial  Services Limited to pay the total amount of lost 
investment return into Mr Ds pension plan, the compensation should be paid directly  to Mr 
D. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan,  it would  have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional should be calculated using Mr Ds marginal  rate of tax. Subject to confirmation  
that Mr D is a basic rate taxpayer, the notional allowance should  therefore be equivalent to 
the current basic rate of tax. 
Any withdrawal (including income drawdown  payments)  income  or other payment out of the 
investment should  be deducted at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point  on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations  simpler, I will accept if Croesus Financial Services  Limited  totals all 
those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Croesus Financial Services Limited must pay the total compensation (which for the 
avoidance of doubt includes the £500  for distress and inconvenience, the £1,123.17 plus 
interest and the amount calculated above for lost investment return) within 28 days  of the 
date on which Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay further 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 
the rate of 8% simple  per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from the interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr D can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr D should refer back to Croesus Financial  Services Limited if he is unsure  of the approach  
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs  if they want to know  
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5191536