K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs B are unhappy  that U K Insurance Limited  declined  a claim made on a home 
insurance policy, which included a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
background
In early 2018 Mr G bought  a new kitchen (including kitchen units) from a retailer,  which cost 
in excess of £34,000.
Mr G took delivery of the new kitchen and it was installed by a third party  (not connected to 
the retailer). The installation finished  in July 2018  and, it was at this stage, Mr G says he 
noticed that the kitchen was defective  and wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr G and Mrs B made a claim  on the LEI policy to cover the legal costs of pursing a claim 
against the retailer for breach of contract. Although the policy does provide cover for 
contractual disputes, UKI declined to cover Mr G and Mrs Bs particular claim. 
Mr G and Mrs B werent happy  with UKIs  decision so brought  a complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint; he didnt think  the claim had been unfairly 
declined. Mr G and Mrs B disagree and Mr G has responded with a number of points 
explaining why. The complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything  afresh  
and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
I suspect Mr G and Mrs B wont  be happy  with my decision. But I want  to assure them that 
although I havent addressed each point theyve made, Ive taken on board all of their 
comments.
The policy says UKI will pay costs for breach of contract clams for buying goods
It goes on to say that UKI will only pay the costs of breach  of contract  claims:
relating to advice,  specification, design, construction, conversion, extension, 
renovation or demolition relating to any land or buildings, if they are part of your 
home and the contract value is less than £15,000 (including VAT)
Its this further clause (the clause) that UKI has relied on to decline their claim.  And I think 
its acted fairly and reasonably by doing so. Ill explain why.
Mr G says his contract with the retailer was a simple transaction to buy goods; it wasnt  to 
advise on, design or construct the kitchen and nor did he instruct it to provide the exact 
specification for the kitchen. He says the retailer shouldve  supplied him with a kitchen that 
was fit for purpose and of a satisfactory quality, and it didnt do that. But Mr G also says hed 
roughly designed the kitchen he wanted,  which he then sent to the retailers supplier. In turn, 
it professionally drew up the layout to understand which units  to supply.
Ref: DRN50145862Although Mr G might not have gone  to the retailer for the sole purpose  of designing or 
providing a specification for the kitchen, Im satisfied it was part of the overall  service  
provided when  selling  the kitchen to him. 
So I think its reasonable for UKI to conclude that the contract  he entered  into with the 
retailer related to the specification and design  of the kitchen  even if, as Mr G has pointed 
out, the order form which the retailer  issued  him showing the cost of the kitchen makes no 
mention of the retailer charging him for its supplier  providing any kind of specification for the 
kitchen or doing  any design work.  
Im also satisfied that the kitchen became a fixed part of the building which  formed  part of the 
home it was installed  in and that the contract  value was more than £15,000 - the retailer 
order form puts the cost of the kitchen much  higher  than this. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied  UKI has reasonably concluded that the breach of contract claim 
Mr G and Mrs B wanted to pursue wasnt covered under the LEI policy.
When making this finding Ive taken on board what Mr G says about the policy not defining  
whats meant by design  or specification. However, Ive considered the everyday use of 
those words and what most  people  would reasonably interpret them  to mean  when thinking 
about whether  UKI has applied the clause fairly.  Im satisfied the process  which Mr G has 
described when  buying the kitchen from the retailer, that its supplier was involved in some 
capacity in the design and specification of the kitchen  and the units.
Ive also taken into account that Mr G says the retailers supplier  was meant  to sign a form 
after checking the kitchen items with him and, together,  they shouldve  agreed whether the 
product was of satisfactory quality. He says it didnt do this. 
Mr G has told us: some of the kitchen carcasses have not been manufactured properly (for 
example gaps between the back and side of the units  and gaps  between  the top and side of 
the units)   I think  its unlikely  that those issues wouldve  been  evident at the point of Mr G 
taking delivery of the kitchen. Given what Mr G says is wrong  with the kitchen; those issues 
probably wouldnt have  come to light until around the time it was installed.  But in any event, 
any failure by the retailers supplier  to check and sign off the quality of the kitchen items 
doesnt detract from my findings that the contract between  Mr G and the retailer did also 
relate to the design and / or specification of the kitchen.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5014586