K821x#15complaint
Mr P is seeking to recover £49,960.83 (taking into account the £39.17  that was recovered
from the receiving account) from HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct), which was
stolen from his bank  account as a result of a third-party scam.
First Direct  says it is not liable for the loss because Mr P unwittingly authorised the payment
 and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from
the payee bank.
Originally, Mr P also raised concerns with how the receiving bank, HSBC,  handled  matters.
However, this complaint  focuses on the actions  of Mr Ps bank, First Direct. Although a
trading division of HSBC,  they are a separate entity,  and so any complaint about HSBCs
actions, would need to be taken up separately.
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
22 October 2020. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to uphold 
this complaint for the following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mr P authorised  the scam payment of £50,000 in August 
2018. He was duped by the scammers  into instructing First Direct over the phone, to 
transfer the amount to an account  he believed belonged to his solicitors for the 
purchase of a property. They deceived him by sending him an email  that looked like it 
had come from his solicitors, and because  Mr P had been expecting  this email, he 
made the payment.
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr P was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, 
although he did not intend the money  to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, Mr P is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider  to have been good industry  practice  at the time, I 
consider First Direct should fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs 
that might indicate  that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).  
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally  more familiar  with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
Ref: DRN53609242some cases  declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
4.First Direct doesnt agree there  were  fraud  triggers  in this case. However, this 
contradicts the actions  of the staff member who processes the payment. She did in 
fact intervene.  On the phone call where Mr P made the payment, the staff member 
explained that because of the amount of the transaction, she had to do a couple  of 
further checks. One of these was to check the receiving bank could receive such  a 
large amount,  but the other was to ask Mr P some questions  about the transfer.  This 
was a scam that is well- known  to banks  and on this occasion, Mr P was 
questioned by the advisor before the transfer  was executed. Although  Mr P had a 
significant amount  of money in his account,  a £50,000 payment out was still unusual 
and uncharacteristic  for him and the account,  particularly as it was being sent to a 
new payee. There had been  no comparable legitimate  payments  in recent times. The 
staff member was therefore  right to question Mr P about it. In other words, First Direct  
had been triggered  by unusual  or uncharacteristic act of whether they did enough in 
all the circumstances.
5.Sadly, this type of scam is very common. The member of staff asked prudent  
questions to begin with and was able to ascertain that Mr P had received  the payment 
instruction via email  and hadnt confirmed the account details verbally  with the 
solicitor. It was good to see her ask if he then wanted to check the payment verbally 
before continuing.  However, I believe she missed  an opportunity following his 
response that hed been expecting the email.  The fact a customer is expecting  an 
email from their solicitor of this nature  is one of the main reasons this scam is so 
successful. Given this, I wouldve expected the advisor to point this out to Mr P 
following his comment. The advisor  couldve and shouldve  explained further  that 
scammers will either hack a solicitors email account  or make one that is very similar, 
so as to trick people  into making  the payment to them. Had Mr P been told this, I 
believe it wouldve made  a difference.
6.First Direct are not in agreement that had further explanations and warnings taken 
place, the scam couldve been prevented. Its pointed to the fact Mr P was adamant he 
wanted the payment to reach the beneficiary the next morning  and didnt want  to 
check the payment  verbally. But I dont believe this means he wouldve ignored a 
further warning from his bank. Had the member of staff fully explained  how the scam 
works, Im persuaded he wouldve at least checked the validity  of the email address. 
Having reviewed the email, the address had been altered very slightly. So, had Mr P 
been warned of this possibility, it seems likely he wouldve checked and discovered 
the discrepancy. He was sending  a very large  amount  of money and this check 
wouldve taken a matter  of seconds  whilst still on the phone to the bank, and so 
wouldnt have delayed  his transfer.  I therefore  see no reason to suspect he wouldve 
ignored the bank  and pressed on regardless.
7.In other  words, taking  all the above  into account, but for First Directs failure to 
provide a sufficient  warning and explanation  of this type of scam, Im satisfied the 
scam would  probably not have succeeded.
8.In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether 
the bank also exercised  enough care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen 
funds from the payee  bank  before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers.
Ref: DRN536092439.I have also considered whether Mr P should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate 
what he was doing or the consequences of his actions.  He had been expecting the 
email from his solicitors and the email address was altered  so slightly that I wouldnt 
have expected him to notice. Its not fair to say he ignored First Directs warning about 
the scam, as he wasnt given the full facts  of how it works.  He isnt an expert in the 
situation, the bank is. And it failed to fully explain how this scam is so successful in 
tricking people into thinking the email  is from their solicitor. Im therefore satisfied 
there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr P was simply the unwitting 
and blameless victim of a clever fraudster.
10.In the circumstances Im satisfied  First Direct should fairly and reasonably  reimburse 
Mr P for the loss he suffered, minus the £39.17  it was able to recover, with interest to 
compensate him for being deprived  of the money he lost. Im satisfied that had the 
fraudster not taken the money from Mr P it would have  remained in his savings 
account until he had to send it to his solicitor, so interest should be at that rate.
11.Mr P lost out on the purchase of the property as a result of the scam. He incurred 
solicitors fees in relation to the cancellation  of the work  they had already carried out. 
Given my conclusions  that First Direct  couldve prevented the scam, I think its fair 
these costs are covered.  Mr P has sent me evidence (which  can be supplied to First 
Direct if requested) that the fees were  payable to the amount of £240.
12.I also think it is appropriate to make an award  of £500 for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr P has suffered.  He lost out on the property purchase  as a result  of 
the scam. However, in reaching that conclusion Im mindful that his loss was ultimately 
caused by as an authorised transaction, but First Direct could ultimately have prevented  
the payments  and the upset caused  to Mr P.
Mr P accepted the provisional decision and First Direct didnt provide a response. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr P agreed with my provisional  findings and First Direct  hasnt  provided  any further
comments or evidence that makes  me change my mind, I see no reason to change  my
findings as set out in my provisional decision.  It follows that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
my final decision
For the above  reasons,  I have  decided  it is fair and reasonable  to uphold  this complaint  
about  HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (trading  as First Direct)  - and I therefore  require  the bank  to:
Pay Mr P £49,960.83  within  28 days  of receiving  notification  of his acceptance  of 
my final decision;  plus
Pay interest  on that sum at the savings  account  rate from the date of loss to the 
date of refund.
Refund  Mr P's solicitor's  fee totalling  £240.
Pay Mr P £500  for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN53609244Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5360924