K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her two mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
background
Ms S took out a MPPI policy with a mortgage  in November 2004. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The policy was cancelled in December 2006.
Ms S then took out a further MPPI policy in March 2008. She also paid a monthly  amount for 
this policy.
Ms S says the policies were unsuitable and inappropriate for her needs  and they were  
inadequately explained.
Ms S also says she felt pressured during the sale process and BoS didnt explain that the 
policies were optional.
Our adjudicator thought Ms Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the matters been referred to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint and Ill explain  why.
Ms Ss mortgage offer dated 11 October  2004  makes it clear MPPI was optional. So, I think 
BoS made her aware that she had a choice about buying the MPPI. The policy  was 
cancelled because Ms S didnt keep up the monthly  payments. But Ms S took out MPPI 
again in 2008, so I think she wouldve understood it was a separate from the mortgage.
Ive noted Ms Ss comments about  being  pressured into taking out the policies. She said that 
she was told in 2008 that her mortgage  would be revoked if she didnt take out MPPI again. 
But given that shed not had MPPI  in the interim, I think she wouldve known that she could  
have the mortgage without MPPI. I havent seen enough information to conclude  BoS 
applied any pressure during the sales process for either policy. I cant  know what  was said,  
but I think its just as likely Ms S chose to take MPPI. 
BoS acknowledges it recommended  MPPI to Ms S. It seems to have been  suitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
It isnt clear what information BoS gave Ms S about  the cost and benefits  of her policies. But 
I see that in 2004  she didnt have  any other  means of making her mortgage  payments if she 
wasnt able to work, and her sick pay entitlement by 2008 was still quite limited. So, I think  
Ref: DRN53904092its most  likely she wouldve bought the policies  even if she wasnt  given clear information  
about these matters. I cant see that MPPI  was unaffordable at the time she took out both 
policies. 
Its possible BoS didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Ms S doesnt  
appear to have been affected by those  things, other  than the restriction  on claims related  to 
existing health  conditions. I see Ms S had a health  condition, but it doesnt appear to have  
affected her day to day living. So, I think its unlikely she wouldve thought shed need to 
make a claim because of this. So, I dont  think this wouldve affected her decision to take out 
MPPI.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont uphold  Ms Ss complaint. I cant  see that she has 
lost out because of anything  that BoS mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against  Bank  of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5390409