K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham Midshires  
(Birmingham Midshires)  acted unfairly  and unreasonably when it declined  her application to 
transfer (port) her mortgage to a new property. She wants  to be able to port the mortgage. 
background
Mrs W had a buy-to-let mortgage  with Birmingham Midshires.  In November 2018, she 
switched to a new product  following  advice  from her broker. At the time of the switch,  the 
property subject to the mortgage was for sale. Mrs W said that she was told the product was 
fully portable.  
Mrs W sold the property in 2019 and offered to buy a new property. She applied  to port the 
mortgage to this property. The application was refused due to Mrs W being 75 years or over. 
Mrs W felt that this is in breach of the mortgage  terms  and conditions  as the mortgage could 
be transferred to another property on identical terms if it was done within six months of 
redemption of the old mortgage  and there  was nothing about any age limits disclosed to her 
when she took out the product in November 2018, despite being  over 75 at that time too. 
Mrs W complained  to Birmingham Midshires. It said that as Mrs W had reached  the age of 
75 at the time of the application  to port her mortgage, she no longer met its lending  policies 
and any early redemption  fees would only be refunded  if a new mortgage  was taken out with 
it. Birmingham  Midshires also said that the offer accepted by Mrs W in 2018 made it clear 
that porting applications were subject to the lending policies in place at the time of 
application, and it was her brokers role to advise her about the suitability of the product.
Mrs W complained  to us. The investigators  view was that Birmingham Midshires  wasnt  at 
fault. He was satisfied that Birmingham Midshires had acted fairly  and in accordance  with its 
lending terms. The investigator explained that there  was a difference  between existing 
lending and new lending.  Mrs Ws application  to port her mortgage was a new lending 
application and subject to those lending  policies; he noted that Birmingham Midshires  
website for brokers did mention that new lending applications were for the under-75s. The 
investigator also pointed  out that it was the role of the broker to advise Mrs W about 
products and their suitability, not the lenders,  and it was open to her to complain about him.
 
Mrs W disagreed.  She said that the investigator hadnt considered the use of the word fully 
in the phrase fully portable , and that when the product switch happened in her view that 
was new lending. Mrs W also said that she shouldve have had to check Birmingham 
Midshires website and she still couldnt find any information about  the age of borrowers  on 
it. She strongly felt that Birmingham Midshires was behaving cynically.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59151032Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement and set their own lending policies, as 
long as theyre lawful and are applied fairly  and reasonably. It isnt unfair or unreasonable for 
lenders to have  specific policies  about the age of borrowers, and I note that the policy  for 
new lending  by Birmingham Midshires  does  require borrowers to be under 75 at the time of 
application. There are other relevant policies about  age and the length of the mortgage  as 
well that might affect Mrs Ws application, but the issue of her age of application is the most  
important as this led to the failure of the application.
Mrs W feels that the product taken  out in 2018  wasnt suitable as it mustve been obvious  to 
Birmingham Midshires that she was over 75. But its acceptable for lenders to have different 
lending policies depending on the nature of the application. In 2018, Mrs W wasnt applying  
for new lending; she was agreeing a new interest rate for money shed already borrowed 
over a property she already owned.  Her age wasnt relevant at that point.
Mrs W also says that the advice given to by the broker  from 2018  promised her that the 
mortgage was fully portable. This is correct, but the mortgage offer (which  is the legally 
binding document)  sets out the conditions about porting:
Your new mortgage must be with Birmingham Midshires and you must meet the lending  
policy that applies when  you make your application. The new mortgage  must  also be taken 
out under  our Buy to Let mortgage scheme.
In other  words, the mortgage  product is portable  if the application met the lenders lending 
policies at the time of application.  Mrs Ws application didnt meet Birmingham Midshires 
lending policies for new lending due to her age at the time she applied. And an application to 
port a mortgage is an application for new lending because what  actually  happens is the 
original mortgage  is paid in full, and a new mortgage over a new property is taken out  all 
that really transfers  is the interest rate and the ERC entitlement. There is no guarantee that 
any porting application would succeed  within the mortgage offer; the use of the phrase fully 
portable doesnt mean no lending  polices would be applied and wasnt stated by the lender.
Its the brokers role to advise Mrs W about  whether the product taken out in 2018 was 
suitable to meet her needs. Brokers  also are expected to have a good understanding  of the 
lending policies of lenders, and the lending policies  relating to the age of a borrower  is the 
type of policy its fair and reasonable  for the lender to expect the broker  to check  or know 
before advising  on a product switch when the property is for sale. Ive looked at the 
information for brokers on Birmingham Midshires website and the age restrictions are set 
out clearly there. The lender isnt responsible for the brokers  advice about the fully 
portable nature of the product or anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915103