K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Ltd (Advantage) didnt deal with her 
car insurance claim properly, saying  the service she received was poor, and the settlement 
figure offered after her car was written off was too low. 
background
Mrs C has a car insurance policy with Advantage. 
In March 2019, Mrs C was involved in an accident, and a week later she was told her car 
was beyond economical repair - a write-off. She was offered a cash settlement of just over 
£9500, which she refused.  A few days later, Advantage  offered an increased settlement 
figure of just over £11,800, which Mrs C also rejected. Mrs C was provided  with a courtesy 
car for the period until her car was deemed a write-off.  
Mrs C complained to Advantage about the service shed received, and the settlement  shed  
been offered.  She said it was too low. Advantage responded and agreed thered been some  
delays in how it dealt  with Mrs Cs claim.  It offered her £40 compensation in recognition of 
the inconvenience caused by these delays. However, it said the settlement amount  it offered 
was fair, as it had used  established car valuation guides to reach  this figure  and had used 
the average of the two highest  valuations in reaching the settlement  figure.  
Mrs C was unhappy with this and complained to us. However,  our investigator agreed with 
Advantages conclusions. i.e. that the valuation was fair and calculated using methods we 
would expect a business to use. Our investigator also thought Advantages offer of £40 
compensation for the delays Mrs C experienced was fair in the circumstances, so he didnt 
ask Advantage  to do anything else. Unhappy with this, Mrs C asked an ombudsman  to 
review her complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to begin  by looking at what Mrs Cs policy says about writing-off a car, and how it will 
calculate what to pay when it decides a car should  be written off. So, the policy defines a 
total loss  a write-off   as follows:
If your Car can't be repaired or the cost of repair is uneconomical, your Car will be 
declared a Total Loss. This is commonly called a "write-off. 
And section  1 of the policy deals with damage to Mrs Cs car. It says Mrs C is covered for 
accidents, and that:
If your Car is damagedbecause of an accidentthere  are three ways your Policy  
can help you get back on the road again.  Your Insurer will do one of the following:
 Pay for any necessary  repairs
 Replace  your Car
 Pay the Market Value  of your Car immediately before the loss. 
Ref: DRN55968352Because a decision  was made the car couldnt be repaired, and it was too old to be covered 
by the replace your car provision, Advantage had to pay Mrs C its market value (less the 
excess on Mrs Cs policy  here £200). The policy defines market value as follows:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when  the insurance was taken out. Your  
Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and 
will make any necessary  allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car
So, Advantage had to pay Mrs C the market value of her car at the time of the accident. And 
as the policy  states,  this would have been based on the above  calculation, and not the 
amount Mrs C declared as the value when she took out the policy.  When she took out the 
policy, she said her car was worth £14,000.  But this was just an indication of value when the 
policy was taken out  it wasnt the amount Advantage were  insuring  the car for.
Valuing a car isnt an exact science, as each car is different. We check that insurers  have  
used a pre-accident  valuation that is reasonable to settle a claim.  We think  the fairest  way to 
establish a cars likely pre-accident value is to look at the likely selling prices  for a similar car 
at the time the insured vehicle was damaged given in the trade guides. The sums quoted  in 
them are based  on a great deal of research carried out nationwide, reflecting likely selling 
prices rather than advertised prices which allow a margin for negotiation.
Here, I can see Advantage  has referred  to these guides when arriving at their settlement 
figure. Whilst its first offer of just over £9,500 was, in my view,  clearly insufficient (more 
below on that), the amount eventually  offered was in line with the two highest valuations  
within the guides, which were between just over £11,600 and just under £12,000.  I havent  
seen any reason why Mrs Cs car warranted a higher  valuation  than what  these guides said.  
So I think Advantages settlement offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Turning to the way Advantage  dealt  with Mrs Cs claim - Mrs C has said there  were  delays in 
a courtesy/hire  car being provided.  Mrs Cs policy provides a courtesy car during a period of 
repair, but not if her car was declared a write-off. Here, Mrs Cs car was declared  a write-off, 
but only about a week after the claim was raised.  So, Advantage should  have  provided  a 
courtesy car up until this point  which it did, albeit with a short delay in arranging this after 
Mrs C made  her claim.  And, I can see Mrs C had to contact Advantage a number of times to 
chase an update on her claim. I think, together,  these do represent delays in the 
management of Mrs Cs claim and caused inconvenience to her - a fact accepted by 
Advantage and for which it has already paid £40 compensation. I think this a fair amount in 
the circumstances.
I mentioned above  Advantage increased its settlement offer to just over £11,800,  only days 
after its original offer of just over £9,500 was rejected by Mrs C. Ive seen that Mrs C made  
representations to Advantage during this period to explain  why the £9,500  valuation  was too 
low. Ive since spoken to Advantage, who has agreed a mistake  was made in that initial 
valuation. And, to reflect the inconvenience Mrs C experienced  she sought the opinion of 
her car dealer, obtained  her own trade-guide prices, and sent photos of her car (pre-
accident) to show its condition  Advantage has offered Mrs C a further £100 in 
compensation. I think, in the circumstances,  this too is a fair offer. Im aware  Advantage has 
paid this to Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN55968353From the day of the claim to the day Advantage made its revised settlement offer  which I 
think was fair and reasonable - was 15 (11 working) days. As Ive said there were delays in 
this period that caused inconvenience to Mrs C, which Advantage has acknowledged. I think  
the total compensation its now paid for these delays, amounting  to £140, represents a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience experienced by Mrs C during  the two-week period of the 
claim journey. So I dont think Advantage needs to pay anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that the further  £100  compensation 
Advantage has paid is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5596835