K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  hasnt  allowed him to transfer 
the benefits from his section  32 pension  plan to another provider. He says the other 
business can provide him with a higher annuity income so feels this is unfair and wants  
Aviva to transfer his pension.
background
Mr H held deferred benefits in an occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) which were 
transferred into a section  32 pension plan with Aviva in March 1988. In November 2017 he 
received a letter from Aviva advising him that the selected retirement date (SRD) of his plan 
was 28 April 2018  and that he should begin  to consider his retirement options. Mr H then 
asked Aviva to confirm his alternatives  including what monthly income he might  receive.  
Aviva confirmed the fund value and transfer  value of Mr Hs plan and set out his alternatives.  
Although it said he couldnt take a flexible income  or lump sums from the plan without 
transferring elsewhere,  which might  mean  you may lose any valuable  benefits. None of 
Avivas options allowed  for any tax free cash to be taken   even on transfer to another 
provider. 
Mr H had since engaged  an adviser  who contacted Aviva. He said that as the transfer value  
had exceeded  the figure  that Aviva  said it needed  to be for Mr H to be able to transfer, he 
assumed that a transfer to a flexi access drawdown plan elsewhere was acceptable. Aviva 
said it wasnt acceptable unless the new provider confirmed it would pay the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP).  So Mr Hs adviser  compared the income  that other companies 
might be able to provide.  He found one that said it could offer a higher annuity  using the 
transfer value   than Aviva  could provide and begun to complete the necessary paperwork 
for Mr H to transfer. 
But Aviva confirmed it wasnt  able to transfer  a plan if the GMP wasnt covered  even if the 
new provider said it could  provide a higher annuity.  Aviva said this was a legal obligation. It 
said it could transfer  the policy to the other provider as an open market  option (OMO) if the 
other firm could confirm it would provide the GMP.
So Mr Hs adviser complained as he believed that Mr H was being denied the opportunity to 
get a higher pension income  elsewhere  because of the regulations around GMPs. He said 
Aviva should  transfer the fund and allow Mr H to sign a disclaimer  to say that he wouldnt 
hold Aviva responsible  if he didnt  get at least the GMP. 
 
Aviva explained  that because  the value of Mr Hs plan wasnt  sufficient to cover the GMP  it 
needed to be £98,236.61  it wasnt possible to transfer the plan until this figure  had been  
reached. 
It said that, under its interpretation of relevant pension legislation, a pension to pension  
transfer elsewhere wouldnt oblige another provider  to pay the GMP under the section 32 
plan rules or to include certain other benefits  such as a spouses annuity and a guarantee  
period. Aviva  said it would  retain any liability to have to pay the GMP in such circumstances. 
But it also said that if the new provider was able to provide a higher annuity from the transfer  
value then Mr H could  apply for an OMO   which Aviva would permit.
Ref: DRN54233522Mr Hs adviser  established that other providers wouldnt accept  the OMO value for the same 
reasons relating to the GMP. So Mr H felt he was being treated unfairly and as he remained  
dissatisfied with this outcome he brought his complaint to us.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. She made  
the following  points:
the provider  that was prepared to offer Mr H a higher annuity payment wanted  Aviva 
to provide a transfer value  at least equal  to the Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value 
(CETV) which suggested it was also aware  that it wouldnt be receiving the full value 
of the plan. Both Aviva and the provider would need  to be satisfied  about  the liability 
arising from the GMP  which they werent. 
The GMP included provision for a 50% spouses  annuity and a five year guarantee 
period within  Mr Hs plan. The investigator thought  Aviva had acted fairly by saying 
that if it didnt transfer the full CETV required to meet these  additional benefits  it 
would retain some  liability to provide them. 
Aviva  had offered  a resolution to the matter by offering to transfer the plan as an 
OMO if the other provider accepted  liability for the GMP.
Avivas concerns were  about breaching the Contracting-out (Transfer  and Transfer 
Payment) Regulations 1996, not about a future  complaint. So it wouldnt be 
acceptable for Mr H to sign a disclaimer to say he wouldnt complain against Aviva in 
the future.
She thought  the legislation was in place for Mr Hs protection and that Aviva hadnt  
done anything  wrong in observing it, and Aviva  also offered a solution using the OMO 
to complete a transfer.
Mr Hs adviser  didnt  agree. He said Mr H was being  disadvantaged by having to accept a 
lower pension income because of the regulations and the type of pension  he holds. He 
thought that in this case the regulations were unfair and wanted us to help Mr H to get a fair 
outcome. He thought that the presence  of a GMP within the plan had caused  this problem 
and it should be ignored or removed if that enabled  Mr H to get a higher income  for life. He 
asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman so its been  passed to me for a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I know this outcome will disappoint Mr H and I have some sympathy for his position  here,  as 
I can see he believes hes losing the opportunity  to receive a higher annuity income from his 
plan for the rest of his life. But I dont think Aviva has done anything  wrong  here so Ill 
explain why.
When Mr H transferred his OPS benefits into a section 32 plan, Aviva  had to ensure that the 
commitment to a GMP  established within the OPS  was mirrored by the plan. This meant 
there was less risk involved  than an alternative of using a personal pension to transfer  
(although there was still some risk when  compared to the OPS). 
But there was a risk that if the GMP  couldnt  be covered by the total value of the plan early 
retirement might not be allowed and also the tax free cash  sum might not be available  either. 
Ref: DRN54233523This risk also extended to transferring  the benefits  to another  provider  where the actual 
CETV required  to provide  the GMP exceeded the stated transfer value.  
In Mr Hs case Aviva clearly explained  in one of the retirement  packs, that the CETV was 
£98,236 whereas  the transfer  value,  when expressed as an OMO was around  £92,953.
This meant that Aviva  still had a responsibility  to ensure Mr H received the GMP at his SRD, 
which it was committed to doing by making up any shortfall from its own resources. But if it 
allowed Mr H to transfer to another provider to receive his pension income it couldnt be sure 
that GMP liability would be met, especially with regards to the additional benefits that had to 
be provided. 
This meant it would retain some liability for the GMP under the Contracting-out (Transfer 
and Transfer  Payment) Regulations 1996 which state that  A transfer payment in respect of 
a GMP may be made to a scheme which is not an overseas scheme or overseas 
arrangement, if  - (b) the transfer payment (whether or not it forms part of a larger payment 
in respect of both guaranteed minimum pensions and other rights) is of an amount at least  
equal to the cash equivalent  of the earners  accrued  rights to guaranteed  minimum pensions, 
as calculated and verified in a manner consistent  with regulations  made under section 97 of 
the 1993 Act (calculation of cash equivalents).
So I think its clear from the regulations that in this case Aviva might be in breach if it allowed 
a transfer to be conducted using  the lower  transfer  figure instead of the CETV. So I dont 
think its done anything  wrong here by denying Mr Hs request to transfer on that basis.
Mr H and his adviser  accept the regulations  which are in place here, but theyve said that 
they are unfair and  using outdated  calculations involving the GMP, means Mr H is denied  
the opportunity  to receive a higher income  from the new provider than Aviva is prepared to 
pay him allowing  for the GMP.  And I take Mr Hs point  here as he potentially  stands  to lose 
income in the future based on these  regulations.  I know  Mr H would like to see some 
flexibility, and is prepared  to sign a disclaimer to confirm he wouldnt register a complaint in 
the future  against  Aviva.
In order to uphold  Mr Hs complaint I have to consider that Aviva  has made an error  and 
should allow  the transfer. But I dont  think it has made an error and I think its entitled  to 
adopt the position it has here based  on the regulations. I dont  think  it would be fair to Mr H if 
Aviva were  to expose him to the possibility of the GMP  not being  paid,  and it wouldnt be fair 
for Aviva to continue to have that liability  after it transferred  the plan elsewhere. And as the 
investigator confirmed  a signed disclaimer wouldnt be of any use here because Aviva  is 
concerned about  breaching the regulations  as opposed to any future complaint about a loss 
of benefits.
However, having explained why I think Aviva hasnt done anything  wrong  here I would 
expect it to have  offered  Mr H an alternative  which allowed him to transfer  his funds 
elsewhere. And I can see Aviva has done that by offering the facility to transfer  on an OMO 
basis. 
This would allow Mr H to transfer  the current value of his plan to a provider that might  give 
him a higher  income  based on that (non CETV) value. Unfortunately I understand from 
Mr Hs adviser  that option isnt acceptable  to other providers - presumably for the same  
reasons that Aviva  wont transfer the full equivalent  value of Mr Hs plan.
Its unfortunate that these regulations dont allow Aviva or the potential receiving provider to 
allow this transfer  to be concluded.  I can see that Mr H is unhappy  with this situation and has 
Ref: DRN54233524argued that the rules should  be changed  to enable the GMP to be discarded in such  cases 
where an obvious financial benefit is being denied. But its not for the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to make changes to the regulations.  
My role is to determine if Aviva has made  an error which has led to Mr H suffering a financial 
loss or some  degree  of distress and inconvenience as a result of any error. But I dont think 
Aviva has made a mistake  here and although  Mr H would like it to act differently in his case 
and show some flexibility around the regulations,  that doesnt mean Aviva has done  anything 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5423352