K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that FCE Bank Plc refused to let him reject  a car.
background 
In November 2016 Mr B bought a new car costing some £30,000 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement with FCE. He encountered numerous problems, mainly, but not exclusively, 
electrical in nature. The car was taken  back to the dealer a number of times,  but not all the 
issues were fixed. He complained to FCE and asked  that he be allowed  to reject the car. It 
contacted the dealer which said the faults had been repaired. FCE refused his request.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He noted Mr B had said he had taken the car 
to the dealer on some 10 to 20 occasions.  He obtained the dealers  job sheets and set out a 
timeline of events. This wasnt  disputed.
He appreciated  the issues, including problems with the parking sensor, brake malfunction 
indicators and child locks would be a concern  in a vehicle that was used as a family car. 
However, he focussed on the heated  windscreen  which had failed on several occasions 
despite repairs being carried out by the dealer. 
He suggested  to FCE that Mr B should  be allowed to reject  the car and it agreed.  Mr B has 
suggested he receive back all the payments he had made, but the adjudicator thought  this 
was unreasonable. He noted Mr B had had use of the car despite the problems, but he 
thought a refund of one months payment was reasonable  to reflect  the time and effort Mr B 
had to put in to deal with the car. He also thought FCE should  pay compensation of £600 as 
the faults in the car had an impact on family life.
Mr B didnt agree and said he had bought a car with specific  extras  to meet  the needs of his 
family and it wasnt sufficient to say that because he was able to use it that he should  pay 
the monthly sums.  He said the car was unreliable and this caused stress and he was being 
penalised for trying to work with the dealer to resolve the problems. He said their estimated 
annual use was 9,000 miles and this had been curtailed. He had also incurred costs of 
around £1,000  in servicing and associated matters. Had FCE accepted rejection when he 
first contacted it then he wouldnt have had to make as many payments. He said this had 
caused him to make  a loss. 
He suggested  a usage charge of 8 pence per mile would be appropriate  which meant he 
should only pay some  £1,824. He thought  FCE had obtained windfall by delaying  rejection. 
The adjudicator disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN50070442The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCE is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It has been agreed by all parties that the car should be rejected and I consider that to be a 
reasonable conclusion. The only issue which remains for me to consider is the level of 
compensation.
I can appreciate the frustration experienced by Mr B and his family in that he has had to take 
the car back  on numerous occasions  and several components havent worked as they 
should. This may have impaired the driving experience,  but in the main  they have not 
prevented the car being used. I can see that for the most  part Mr B has been  provided with a 
courtesy car, though that has caused some problems as the car offered wasnt  suitable for 
the familys needs. 
If FCE had accepted his request to reject  then he would still have incurred the cost of owning 
and running a car. He would be making monthly payments for the use of a replacement  car. 
In general terms I dont consider the delay  hasnt had a significant  financial impact on Mr B. I 
would add that the delay  hasnt benefitted FCE as the car has diminished in value with the 
passage of time. 
I can see that in the first 15 months of ownership  Mr B had driven 10,774  miles which is not 
an inconsiderable mileage. I gather  he has done some 19,000 miles in the first two years  
and so I dont  believe the faults  have limited his use significantly. To this has to be added the 
mileage done  in a courtesy car provided by the dealer.
In short  he has had a reduced driving experience  and the inconvenience  of taking the car 
back for repairs along with the overall  distress  of dealing with the dealer and FCE. For that, 
and that alone he is entitled  to some recompense. I dont  think  anything  of the order he is 
suggesting is appropriate. I consider the suggested recompense  of £1,000 is reasonable and 
in line with what this service generally  recommends.  
Ref: DRN50070443my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCE Bank Plc to:
take the car back at a time convenient to Mr B with nothing  further to pay,
refund  his deposit plus interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date it is 
repaid,
refund  one months payment,
pay compensation of £600.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5007044