K820x#14complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a series of branch 
withdrawals which she says werent made by her.
background
In the middle of May 2018, Miss P contacted Nationwide  to say shed lost her bank card.  
Over the course of the next two weeks, a series of cash withdrawals totalling almost £2,000 
were made from her account through two different Nationwide branches. The branches were 
both in the same area where  Miss P lived.
Nationwide has said most of the withdrawals were carried out without Miss Ps bank card 
being present.  Although its information indicates  Miss Ps replacement  bank card was used 
during at least one of the withdrawals. The person doing the transactions wouldve needed 
to answer some security  questions to complete them. And weve  been  provided with 
withdrawal slips from each occasion that include a signature that looks  like Miss Ps. 
Nationwide believes the withdrawals were authorised by Miss P. The signatures match 
Miss Ps and there  was still a substantial amount  of money left in the account  after the 
disputed activity stopped. No explanation has been  provided as to how someone else would 
be able to pass the security questions which were  asked  each  time.
Nationwide says a similar claim had also been  raised with it only a few months earlier   but 
on that occasion the building  society ultimately decided to refund the money, giving Miss P 
the benefit of the doubt at the time.
Miss P has said she didnt make these  withdrawals. She was living  with her mother and 
brother at the time of the disputed activity. Shes told us that she contacted  Nationwide at the 
beginning of June  to explain that she still hadnt received her replacement card. She 
received it a few days later. And on checking  her balance, she found that the withdrawals 
had been made. She said that it was late at night, so she reported this to Nationwide the 
following day.
Having considered the evidence, our investigator thought that Miss P had more  likely than 
not authorised  the transactions. He didnt see how someone else could  have known enough 
about Miss P to pass  the necessary security questions. He also didnt think that the pattern 
of activity indicated  fraud  either. Miss P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P will be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator that her complaint  
shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain  why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry  practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN59308312The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
and building societies to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments 
themselves. 
I appreciate that Miss P has said that she didnt make these withdrawals. But I must assess  
the evidence that weve been  provided by both her and the building  society.  And in order to 
reach a decision,  I must make a finding  about  what is more  likely than not to have happened. 
That doesnt  mean that I can be 100%  sure that things happened  as Ive decided,  but just 
that this is what probably happened.  
Miss Ps initial evidence was her recollection of what happened at the time. This included her 
statement about the loss of the card and her attempts to follow that up over the next two weeks.
After the investigator  issued his opinion, Miss P also provided us with some  bank statements 
for another  account she had at the time. Those  show,  that up until she reported her 
Nationwide card lost, she was using her other  bank account for her normal spending activity. 
However, after the reported  loss, she didnt make any withdrawals from that other account 
during the whole period  that the disputed  transactions were occurring at Nationwide. The 
other account also had a very low balance at the time. And it wasnt used again until Miss P 
was paid at the end of May 2018. That was around the same time that the disputed 
transactions on her Nationwide  account stopped.
For someone to have carried out the disputed withdrawals, they wouldve  needed  to do 
the following:
answer a series  of security/financial questions  about Miss P on multiple occasions;
provide signatures on each occasion  which appeared to match Miss Ps genuine signature;
have knowledge of the fact that Miss P had lost her card in order  to request  the branch 
withdrawals in the first place; and
have had access  to Miss Ps replacement card which  appears  to have been presented 
on at least one occasion during the relevant period.
So, given the above, its very unlikely than an unknown third party  could have made these 
withdrawals. Miss P hasnt  provided any details around how she lost her card. But she says 
she only used the account for savings. It is of course possible that someone known to 
Miss P could have  taken  the card, forged her signature and withdrawn her money.  But doing 
this in local branches on eight separate occasions  would  have  seriously risked being  caught.
The circumstances of the withdrawals also dont fit the sort of fraud profile  that you often 
see. The transactions were done  over a lengthy  period  - two weeks  - and the balance of the 
account wasnt exhausted, even though the person that had the card made  more  than one 
balance enquiry, so would have  known how much was left in the account.  The transactions 
also stopped abruptly  at the end of the month. And theres no indication of any further 
attempts being  made.
Miss P initially told us that on receiving her replacement card, shed checked her account  
late at night at a particular brand of supermarket. And thats  why she didnt report  the theft 
until the following  day. But Nationwide has shown us that the card was used around 
lunchtime at a different supermarket that day. So, its strange that Miss P didnt then get in 
touch with Nationwide to report this until the following day.  
Ref: DRN59308313Taking everything into account,  and on the basis that I must make  a finding of whats  more 
likely than not to have happened, Ive found that Miss P likely either carried  out the disputed 
transactions herself or consented to them being  made on her behalf. So, I dont think that 
Nationwide needs  to refund the payments to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Ps complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society. And I dont require that it needs to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2021.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5930831