K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay the claim  hes made under his home 
insurance for damage caused by a leak in his bathroom.
background
Mr E suffered  fire damage to his home in 2009  and made a claim through  his then insurer,  B. 
The repairs  included construction of new bathrooms.
In 2016, Mr E noticed electric shocks coming from the water outlets and a radiator in his 
bathrooms. He arranged a number of callouts from his homecare insurance provider, C, to 
look at the problem. 
After a few visits, C told Mr E that the problems stemmed  from water  getting behind tiles in 
one of the bathrooms. Mr E says he was told this was likely due to the repair  work done  after 
the fire being  substandard.
Between 2017 and 2019, Mr E says he corresponded at length with first the building 
contractor whod done the repair work, and then his old insurer,  B. Eventually, B told Mr E 
that hed need to raise the issue of the water escaping his bathroom, and damage caused  as 
a result,  with his current insurer.
In late March 2019, Mr E raised a claim with AXA,  whom hed used for his home insurance 
since 2011.
The initial contact notes  record  that Mr E said the leak had first been  noticed in June 2017, 
but had potentially been ongoing since the bathroom  was fitted in 2010. The notes say the 
reason for the claim only being raised  then was that Mr E had been in contact with his 
previous insurer.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster, who conducted a digital visit a few days  later when Mr E 
took video of some of the damage. The loss adjuster then visited  Mr Es house in person a 
few days after that. In its report the loss adjuster said Mr E had explained about the damage:
[Mr E] advised trying  to submit the claim to his previous  Insurers in the last 2 years,  
however they have  advised as it is over 5 yrs old they will not deal with it. [Mr E] has now 
submitted the claim to his current Insurers. I asked [Mr E] how long the leak has been going 
on to his knowledge and was advised  initially 2 years ago but upon  further  questioning  he 
advised for at least a year - this is when the staining to the lounge  ceiling started  to occur.  
[Mr E] has taken  no action to stop the leak saying only that he has stopped using the en-
suite, however  the household still use the family bathroom and this also leaks everytime  the 
bath is used and this is causing  damage  to the lounge ceiling.
AXA discussed matters  with the loss adjuster, and decided to send an investigator to Mr Es 
house to talk to him again about the claim, and what had happened  over the years.
When the loss adjuster  called Mr E to arrange a visit, he said it wasnt necessary as the 
digital visit and first visit in person should  have  given all the photographs and information  
about the damage AXA needed.
Ref: DRN54538382AXA then called Mr E directly to say it needed an investigator to visit. Mr E told AXA it should 
be able to either accept  or decline the claim based  on the information it already had, and 
asked it to do so.
AXA wrote to Mr E that day explaining  that it needed  to carry out further  investigation before 
it could approve or decline  his claim.  Eventually an investigator visit was arranged  for a few 
weeks later.
When AXAs  investigator arrived he asked  Mr E to consent to having the interview recorded 
and to sign a statement  reflecting what was said afterwards.  Mr E said he didnt want to do 
so and didnt think it was necessary.
After further correspondence between Mr E and AXA, he complained.  He said AXA was 
being obstructive  and trying to avoid paying his claim. He wasnt  happy with how long 
everything had taken. He said hed provided all the information it should need  and it had 
visited his property to assess  the damage. He asked it to pay his claim.
AXA responded to Mr E saying it wasnt upholding his complaint. It said it hadnt formally 
declined the claim  hed made under  his policy, but it wasnt in a position to accept the claim 
yet, either. It explained it was concerned  with some of the answers  Mr E had given to the 
loss adjuster and to AXA itself. It said hed variously  said the leak had been  ongoing  for two 
years, and later just for a year.  It said hed not been  able to evidence that hed pursued 
matters with his previous  insurer.  
AXA explained the terms of Mr Es policy  said he had to assist with its enquiries. And that he 
had an obligation  to tell AXA as soon  as possible about an incident that gave rise to a claim, 
and take all reasonable steps to prevent further  damage. It said before it could accept  his 
claim it would  need  to be satisfied hed tried to mitigate his loss during the time since the 
leak had started. It said this could be done through an interview with its investigator.
Mr E wasnt  happy with AXAs response. He sent it a letter setting out everything that had 
happened since he first noticed the leak. He said that should  give AXA enough  information  
to pay his claim.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. In short,  she thought  AXA had 
acted fairly  and reasonably in the way it had dealt with Mr Es claim so far. She thought it 
was reasonable  for AXA to require further investigation before deciding whether Mr Es claim 
was covered under the terms  of his policy. And she thought it had progressed  the claim in a 
timely manner.
Mr E didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. He maintained  that 
the digital  visit, loss adjuster visit, and signed statement he provided after he complained to 
our service  were sufficient for AXA to process  his claim, and answer all the questions it said 
were outstanding. He said that the time things had taken had resulted in the damage to his 
property worsening,  and he was worried about  his familys health due to mould  that had 
developed due to the leaks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54538383To begin with, Id like to express my sympathy for the situation Mr E finds himself  in. I can 
see from his submissions that the problems in his property, and the ensuing  damage, have 
made things  difficult for him and his family.  I dont underestimate the impact  this has had on 
him.
But my role here is to consider whether the way AXA has handled his claim is fair and 
reasonable. Having done so, and like our investigator,  I think it has been.  And for broadly  the 
same reasons.
AXA has a responsibility  to deal with Mr Es claim fairly. But it is entitled to rely on the policy  
terms when doing  so. Mr Es policy says that a claim mightnt be dealt  with, or the amount 
payable affected,  if he doesnt carry out the steps  included within the conditions  of the policy.
Of relevance here, the policy  says he needs  to notify  AXA as soon as possible when an 
incident arises, and take all reasonable steps following an incident to prevent further 
damage.
AXA has said it has concerns about  whether Mr E complied with these  conditions   because  
hed told it the leak began  some years  before  he claimed, and hed said hed not had 
anything done  in the meantime, while the leak continued and caused further damage.
I dont think it is unfair  or unreasonable for AXA to want to satisfy itself that Mr E has 
complied with the policy conditions before agreeing to pay his claim. I think  its fair for it to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate investigations into a claim before accepting  it.
I appreciate that Mr Es said he has answered questions about  these  issues in the various 
correspondence and conversations hes had with AXA and its agents. But it isnt for Mr E to 
tell AXA what information is sufficient or in what format it should accept his testimony.  
From everything Ive seen  I think there are reasonable questions AXA would like more 
detailed answers  to. And while  Mr E has described  various events and steps  hes taken I 
dont think its unfair  for AXA to ask for evidence of them before moving forward with his 
claim.
For example, Mr E has told AXA hed corresponded  extensively with his previous insurer, B, 
during the time between the leak appearing and his claim to AXA. But hes not provided 
evidence of this correspondence, and when  AXA asked B about the matter, it wasnt  able to 
provide any evidence of what Mr E had spoken to it about either.
In terms of the time the claim  has taken,  I dont think AXA has caused any undue delay. It 
arranged a digital visit and then a home visit from its loss adjuster within a few days  of Mr E 
informing it of his claim.  And I think it has been flexible in trying to arrange the follow  up 
investigator visit its asked for.
Taking everything into account  I think AXAs  handled  Mr Es claim fairly.  I think it has 
reasonable concerns about  whether, and to what extent, Mr Es claim might be covered 
under the terms  of his policy. And I think  it has asked for reasonable further information and 
evidence from Mr E to satisfy itself either way. 
So I wont  be asking it to pay Mr Es claim,  or do anything differently  to how its done  things 
so far. To be clear, Ive made no finding  about  whether I think  Mr Es claim ought to be paid 
by AXA,  because it hasnt  made  a decision about  it yet. Ive simply looked  at the way its 
Ref: DRN54538384handled things  so far. If and when AXA give a definitive decision about Mr Es claim, if hes 
unhappy hed need to complain about  it separately. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453838