K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) are asking  her 
to pay an option to purchase fee when she is not purchasing the vehicle but handing it 
back.
background
Mrs P took receipt of a new car in April 2014.  She financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with VWFS and agreed  to pay 36 monthly instalments. The agreement  included a 
final payment of £9907.20 which Mrs P would need  to pay at the end of the agreement if she 
wished to purchase the car. And the agreement  also included an option to purchase  fee, it 
said:
To exercise the option to purchase  the vehicle, you must add the Option to Purchase  Fee of 
£60.00 to the amount  of the final monthly payment 
Mrs P decided not to purchase the car at the end of the term and she handed it back to 
VWFS. So she was surprised that in their handback  letter of 4 May 2018 they said:
you continue to be responsible for making all monthly payments including the option to 
purchase fee of £60.00. This fee enables us to act as your agent in the sale of the vehicle in 
order to settle your finance agreement.
Mrs P thought the option to purchase fee was only payable if she took ownership  of the car. 
So she complained to VWFS who maintained their stance. They told us that the fee was 
payable whether the car was purchased by Mrs P or not. They explained that it was a 
common misconception  that the option to purchase  fee wasnt  payable when the consumer 
was handing the car back. But they said that wasnt the case as they were  selling  the vehicle 
as an agent of the customer. They said this was clearly set out in the finance  agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  agree with VWFS. She noted that the agreement suggested that the 
option to purchase  fee was payable if Mrs P chose to purchase  the car and as she wasnt 
she didnt think it was reasonable  for VWFS  to ask for it to be paid.
But VWFS disagreed and they asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN59083102I dont agree that the terms and conditions  of the finance agreement explained that the 
option to purchase  fee was due if the vehicle was handed back.  It said:
To exercise the option to purchase  the vehicle, you must add the Option to Purchase  Fee of 
£60.00 to the amount  of the final monthly payment 
Its clear that Mrs P didnt  exercise her option to purchase and as thats the only point at 
which the contract suggests the fee is added then it wouldnt seem fair to charge it.
Ive not seen evidence that Mrs P was aware of a need to pay the fee if she handed the car 
back. That doesnt appear to have been  communicated to her until VWFS sent their hand 
back letter  four years  after the agreement started.
Ive seen the various arguments that VWFS have raised about why they should  be allowed 
to charge the option to purchase fee but none of them have changed  my mind as I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for them to make  a charge when, in my opinion,  the terms 
and conditions only explain it will be added if the vehicle is purchased.
And I agree with the adjudicator that due to the length of time VWFS have refused to remove  
this charge and have  insisted on chasing payment, they should pay Mrs P £50 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  theyve caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  to:
cancel the £60 option to purchase  charge
pay Mrs P £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
have caused
ensure any adverse  reports theyve made  to Mrs Ps credit file in relation to this issue 
are removed
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5908310