K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint concerns a with profits policy held with The Royal London Mutual  
Insurance Society Limited. 
background
Mr C took out two with profits policies with Royal London in 1979  and 1981, which  matured 
in 2016 and 2017 respectively. Ill refer to them as the 1979 policy and the the 1981 policy. 
Mr C made  a complaint  to Royal London  about  the 1979 policy  when it matured in 2016.  In 
short, he was disappointed with the policys maturity value because it was less than hed 
anticipated. Royal London didnt uphold the complaint as it felt the fund had been  managed  
reasonably and the value  paid to Mr C had been correctly  calculated.
Mr C brought the complaint to this service and following an investigation a final decision was 
issued by one my colleagues. She didnt uphold the complaint as she felt Royal  London had 
acted properly and fairly.  Mr C didnt accept the decision.
He continued  to pursue his complaint and in the course of doing so Royal  London 
discovered a recording  of a call hed made to it in 2016, seeking information  on the likely 
maturity values of both policies. During the call, a Royal London staff member  had given 
incorrect, excessive estimations using out-of-date final bonus rates.  
In light of this call, Royal London  accepted that an error had been  made  and offered Mr C 
£500 for each  policy to acknowledge the loss of expectation the misinformation had created.
Mr C didnt accept the offer and referred  the matter back to this service. My colleague 
agreed to reconsider  it, on the basis that the call recording was material  new evidence,  
previously unavailable,  which was likely  to affect the outcome of the complaint. In doing  so, 
she stressed that she was considering only the 1979 policy,  as shed done in her previous 
decision. She offered this confirmation  because by this point the 1981  policy  had also 
matured and Mr C had made a separate complaint about it. Its that policy  which is 
considered in this final decision.
Having reconsidered  the complaint concerning the 1979 policy my colleague this time upheld 
it. But this was only insofar as to award an additional  £400  in compensation to Mr C to reflect 
the trouble and upset created by the failure  to provide the call recording sooner. My 
colleague thought that Royal  Londons  offer of £500  for the loss of expectation was fair and 
she remained of the view that it had acted properly  and fairly in respect  of the maturity  value 
paid. Again, Mr C didnt accept the decision.  
Consideration of the separate complaint concerning the 1981 policy continued in parallel 
with the ongoing consideration of the 1979  policy  and one of our investigators issued his 
view of the separate complaint.
He acknowledged  the overlap with the existing investigation of the 1979  policy. He then went  
on to explain that he didnt feel that Royal London  had treated  Mr C unfairly or unreasonably 
in respect of the bonuses added to the 1981  policy or its eventual maturity  value. 
Ref: DRN51259872He also acknowledged  the loss of expectation  that wouldve been  created by the 
misinformation provided in the 2016  call (the recording of which  was available  by this point).  
But he felt the £500 offered by Royal London was fair compensation for this.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view, so the matter was referred  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background Ive provided above  is a very brief summary  of the correspondence about, 
and consideration of, Mr Cs complaints and the policies in general. But, as it shows, there is 
considerable overlap between the two complaints and because of this all parties are well 
aware of the various arguments made. 
This being so, I dont  feel theres any benefit  to me rehearsing  these in detail. Its clear that 
Mr A has very strong feelings about  Royal  Londons actions. Hes provided detailed  
submissions to support  his complaint,  including  calculations  demonstrating  what  he feels 
should reasonably have  been paid out for both policies,  which  Ive noted and considered  in 
their entirety. 
That said,  I trust that he wont take the fact that my findings focus  on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre  expressed  in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose  of 
my decision  is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them.
There are two main issues to be considered relating to the 1981 policy  firstly, the provision 
of incorrect information  by Royal London during the call in 2016 and secondly,  the way in 
which Royal  London managed the fund and calculated the maturity value. 
The 2016  Call
Theres no dispute that Mr C was given incorrect information during the call. The member  of 
staff he spoke to used out-of-date final bonus  rates, albeit in a genuine  effort to help. But in 
doing so the staff member created an expectation  for Mr C that the policys value was likely  
to be significantly higher than was eventually  the case. 
I recognise the trouble this created for Mr C and the way in which  it also drove  the 
subsequent complaint about the accuracy and fairness of the policys  eventual  value;  Mr Cs 
view that Royal London had mismanaged the fund, apportioned bonuses  unfairly  and 
ultimately underpaid him. But I think the £500 already offered by Royal London for the loss of 
expectation in respect  of the 1981 policy is fair in the circumstances.
Theres also the supplementary issue relating to the call  Royal  London failing to find it as 
part of its initial investigation. This clearly compounded the trouble created by its contents.
 
That said,  Im conscious  of the overlap  with Mr Cs other complaint concerning the 1979  
policy and the fact that the call involved both of his policies. In reaching a fair conclusion I 
cant overlook the fact Mr C has already been awarded compensation relating to the failure  
of Royal  London  to initially provide the call. And given the sum awarded,  I dont think it would 
be fair to direct  any further  payment be made  in respect of the failure.  
Ref: DRN51259873The maturity  value
The ombudsman service  isnt the industry regulator  and its not our role to set the rules for 
financial businesses, or to police the industry  to ensure those rules are followed.  This is the 
role of the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority, with which  I understand Mr C 
has already been  in contact. 
The role of this service is instead to consider individual disputes and to reach  an outcome 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. In doing so, I must have regard 
for the law and relevant industry  regulations,  but Im not bound by them. 
Mr C has suggested steps that he feels I should  take in carrying out an investigation  of his 
concerns. Hes referenced section 231 of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000  
concerning the ombudsmans powers  to require information. He considers that I should 
require Royal London to provide evidence that the maturity value of his policy  is materially 
consistent with all other similar policies  that paid out between 2001 and 2017. 
But I dont consider this necessary for the determination of the complaint. Ive noted all that 
Mr C has said about the management of the fund and, as noted, given careful consideration  
to the calculations hes provided.  Equally, Ive noted all the Royal  London has said.  And 
having done so, Im not persuaded that its been  shown that Royal London  acted incorrectly 
or unfairly  in determining  the maturity value  of the 1981 policy. 
Mr C clearly disagrees strongly with many  aspects of the way in which he feels  Royal  
London has managed the fund  particularly in respect to several specific issues and events; 
notably the takeover of Scottish Life by Royal London, the impact of Solvency II regulations,  
and Brexit. But in managing the fund Royal London  is given considerable freedom  to make 
commercial decisions on how such issues should  affect the level of bonuses applied.  
Mr C is of course entitled to his own views  on how he feels  the issues should be responded 
to. But his belief  that a different approach shouldve been taken by Royal  London doesnt 
mean that what it did decide  to do was wrong.  There is a system of processes and 
separation of responsibilities  set up to ensure that Royal London, like any other  with profits  
fund manager,  acts reasonably in making its fund management decisions. 
Annual fund updates are provided,  overseen  by a dedicated with profits actuary. Principles 
and Practices of Financial  Management  (PPFM) documents are published showing how the 
fund is being managed.  Royal London has a With Profits Committee  (and theres  a Scottish  
Life Supervisory Committee) that exists to ensure that Royal London treats  all policyholders 
fairly in managing the fund. And all of this is overseen by the industry  regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority   its rules requiring that a business must take reasonable care to ensure 
that all aspects of its operating practice  are fair to the interests of its with profits 
policyholders.
I can understand Mr Cs disappointment in not receiving the maturity value he was expecting 
 both in the context of having received misleading information in 2016 and because he feels  
the fund should have  been managed differently. But ultimately, Im satisfied that the very 
detailed explanations offered by Royal London  as to how the maturity  value was determined 
are reasonable. 
Ref: DRN51259874Royal London has explained how the maturity value paid to Mr C relates to the underlying  
asset share  the policyholders fair share of the fund  which is what  the FCA Handbook 
uses as the primary indicator for ensuring fair pay-outs.  It has shown that it paid in excess of 
the asset share and included allowances for an enhancement relating to the distribution of 
the inherited estate  of the Scottish  Life fund. The PPFM documentation has shown the target 
pay-out ratio ranges that the With Profits Committee aims to achieve  and the eventual  
maturity value of the 1981  policy fell within this target range. 
Throughout the term of the policy Royal London  has communicated  how issues like the 
introduction of Solvency II regulations and Brexit might impact  its management  of the fund. 
Mr C has, over the years, been in frequent contact with Royal London to voice his concerns 
about different  aspects  of the fund management. And, as a result, in addition  to the generic 
information issued  to policyholders, hes received  detailed explanations of Royal  Londons 
position on these  matters, leaving him in an informed position, able to make a fair judgement 
as to how best to proceed with the policy.  
In summary,  while I understand that he will strongly disagree, Im not persuaded that - 
beyond the issue  of the 2016 phone call - Royal London has acted incorrectly or unfairly, or 
treated Mr C differently  or less favourably  to its other policyholders.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125987