K820x#14Mr K says he was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) in 1997  with a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  being  the 
insurer and underwriter, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
Mr K took out PPI in March 1997  when he arranged credit to pay for some white goods. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint, Ill explain why:
Mr K says he was told he had to take the policy if he wanted  his credit application to be 
successful, and wasnt given any details about  the PPI. But FICL  has given us a copy  of 
Mr Ks credit agreement from the time and it shows  the policy  as optional  on the form.
The form is pre-printed but it includes personal details about Mr K so I think  it was as a 
result of a discussion. The PPI was in a separate section. And in that section it stated 
Yes I want my account covered by payment protection insurance along with a pre-
printed X to take the policy. I am persuaded when  seeing this that an option was given 
and Mr K could have said no. So I think FICL did enough to make Mr K aware  he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. It 
did have to ensure  that Mr K had clear  enough information to make an informed 
decision on the policy. Im not sure if it did this, but I think Mr K would  have taken the 
policy anyway.  
I say this because Mr K says he was entitled to good sick pay from his employer. But 
the policy  would  have paid out over and above  any employee benefits he may have 
received. So those benefits  could  have been  used for other essential financial 
outgoings. 
Mr K has also told us he had £3,500  of savings he could have relied upon to make the 
repayments. But I see he was borrowing money in store to make  the purchase  (albeit  
interest free if he paid for it within 21 months) so I think it was more likely he wanted to 
keep his savings  intact. And the policy would have  made sure his savings could have 
been kept for their original purpose  or used  for other emergency outgoings. 
Mr Ks wife was working full time and Mr K says he could have relied upon her financial 
help if he needed  to. But her own financial circumstances could have changed  so I dont 
think this could have  been guaranteed. 
Ref: DRN52400112Taking all of this in account, I think the policy could have been a useful way of covering 
the financial commitment Mr K had made, especially if he had been off work long term. 
So I think it gave him a financial comfort he wouldnt otherwise  have  had. 
I also havent  seen anything such as a restrictive or limiting  term  a pre-existing 
medical condition  as an example that would  have affected Mr Ks decision to have the 
policy either.  
As I cant  know for sure how the policy was presented to Mr K it could be that FICL 
could have  explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But it looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So the policy could have  been useful to Mr K if something  went  wrong. And 
so I dont think  better information about  the costs would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ks comments but these points  particularly the other financial 
means Mr K says he could have  relied upon  but because of what  I have  said,  these points 
dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5240011