K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent a debit  card for one of its 
officers to the wrong  address and would  not send a related PIN number to a branch.
background
The Chair  of P represents it in this complaint. He needed a debit card when he took over the 
role so he could make  payments for P. This was ordered from Lloyds. But when it hadnt 
turned up he found that it had been sent to the mailing address for P, and not his address 
which Lloyds had verified. He had no access to the address  for P. He asked for the card to 
be sent to a branch but believes one was sent to the mailing address again. And Lloyds said 
it would  not send the PIN to a branch. The Chair  says he made payments from his own 
account on behalf of P which led to further  administration. And he was inconvenienced  by 
what happened too.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Although the Chair  saw this as a request for a personal debit card  that wasnt the 
case. It was for a business  card as he was going to be using it on behalf of P. It only 
had his name on it to restrict who could  use it.
-Lloyds had sent the card to the business and correspondence address it had for P 
and she could not see that was a mistake. It had verified the identity of the Chair and 
checked his address  but that didnt mean  the card would be sent to him there.
-She couldnt be clear  exactly  what the Chair had been told in a branch about  where  
the PIN would be sent. But she thought it likely  hed been told it would  come  to a 
branch as he wouldnt otherwise have kept visiting the branch.
-Lloyds policy was not to send a PIN to a branch for collection.
-Any essential payments for P had still been  made and she didnt  think  the time taken 
for P to deal with an invoice for these from the Chair  had caused  it to lose out 
financially.
-The eligible complainant here was P so we couldnt  consider  the distress  or 
inconvenience caused to the Chair.
-Lloyds had responded to the complaint and sent an acknowledgement  letter  and 
response.
-She didnt agree  with the Chair  of P that Lloyds should have  paid compensation here 
with the intention of preventing a referral  to this service.
P did not agree. The Chair said that even if Lloyds had not done anything  wrong  it could 
have done things differently to prevent inconvenience. The Chair  had been caused stress 
and worry as the PIN and, as he understood it, two cards had been  sent to a third party.  He 
thought hed been treated  differently by the complaints department at Lloyds and that an 
anonymous complaint would have resulted in an apology and a goodwill gesture. P didnt 
think that Lloyds  should be allowed to hide behind its terms and conditions and place P at 
risk of fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53179492Im unclear  why P had an address registered with Lloyds which neither the Chair nor it would 
seem any other officer had immediate access to. And I can see that Lloyds had suggested to 
P that it change the address but the Chair did not want to. 
Lloyds bears  the risk under  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 for sending a payment 
instrument (the debit  card here) and any personalised  security credentials relating to it. I 
agree with our investigator that as this was a business debit card Lloyds treated the recipient 
as P and used that address. I appreciate that this may not have been obvious to the Chair.  
But I cant agree  though  with his characterisation  that this was sent to a third  party  it was 
sent to P and it was a business card on Ps account.  In itself that shouldnt have opened P 
up to fraud.
There seemed to be some miscommunication in the branch about the PIN. Lloyds has now 
said that it wouldnt be sent to a branch. And Im not entirely clear  what P would have done 
about obtaining it any sooner even had the Chair been clear about that policy earlier  on.
The Chair  made payments from his own account to mitigate the effect  on P. And there  would 
always have been  some administration for P even  if payments were made directly. I cannot 
see that it was caused  a loss here.
I dont doubt though that the Chair felt inconvenienced and says he was distressed by what  
happened. Hes representing P in this complaint but P is a separate  legal entity. And so I can 
only consider the impact  on P. As the investigator  has said Lloyds  dealt with the complaint  
and I dont detect  any unfair treatment  here.  I note that Lloyds used the address again it had 
for P when it issued  the complaint response which unfortunately meant  the Chair did not see 
it. 
Im afraid in my judgment, taking account  of what Ive said above about  what  happened, I 
dont find that there  are grounds for any compensation for P.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not consider this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317949