K821x#15complaint
Mr D claimed  on his European roadside  recovery  policy  while on holiday in Europe following 
the breakdown  of his classic car. He complains  about damage done to his car while the car 
was in the care of Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and poor customer  service hes 
received from them.  
background
In May 2018, Mr Ns classic car a Lotus Elan broke  down while on a classic car tour in Sicily. 
He made  a claim on his European roadside  recovery policy. IPA arranged the car recovery  
and had the car taken to a garage. Mr N says he and his wife were unable  to complete the 
rest of the tour without  their car so they agreed  with IPA to fly back  to the UK and for their 
car to be repatriated.
IPA told Mr N that they were unable  to repatriate  the car unless repairs were carried  out first. 
The car was in IPAs  care for a period  of more than five weeks from the point it was 
recovered. Mr N says when he received  his car back in the UK; it was in a poor state and he 
found cracks, dust and grime over the car. Mr N says there was no damage to the car when  
it broke down in Sicily and that the damage  was done in the five weeks between  recovery  of 
the car and when  it was repatriated. 
Mr N also complains about  the poor customer service  hes received since  he made his initial 
call for recovery  including misinformation and lack of communication. He says this has 
added to his distress.
IPA didnt agree that they are responsible. They  say there is no evidence to suggest the 
damage was done while  the car was in their care. They say the damage to the fibreglass 
body is consistent  with a car of its age. They say the damage couldnt have happened  during 
recovery as the car didnt  come into contact with anything.
Our investigator said that although he couldnt confirm  exactly how or when the damage  
happened, on balance he did think this happened  in the five weeks while  the car was in 
IPAs care.  So they should pay for the repairs or arrange the repairs  of the car. He also said 
that IPA should  pay the consumer an additional £100 to account  for the level of distress  and 
inconvenience Mr N has suffered.
IPA didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
damage sustained
Mr N says his car did not have damage to it when  he called IPA for recovery. He has 
provided us with photographs of what his car looked like before it was recovered. The 
photographs arent clear enough for us to determine  if there is any damage to the car or not. 
But hes also provided us with a report of the carrier that transported his car from England at 
the start of his trip in May 2018.  There is no mention  of any damage to the car. 
Ref: DRN55718452Mr N says the car sustained damage  while it was in IPAs care for the five weeks it took for 
them to repatriate  his car. Theres  nothing from IPA to show the condition of the car whilst in 
their care. But we do have  a report prepared by the carrier  who delivered the car back  to 
Mr N in the UK. This report showed damage to the car.
It has been difficult to conclusively say when the damage to the car happened.  Ive made a 
decision based on what I think happened on balance taking into account  the evidence  
received from both IPA and the consumer. Ive considered what Mr N says about  the 
condition of his car and the level of attention he pays to his classic car and Im persuaded by 
what he says. I think  its unlikely that as a classic car enthusiast  he would have left his car in 
the condition that it was in particularly as he was then taking the car across  Europe on a 
class car holiday. IPA hasnt been  able to offer me anything conclusive that would  show me 
the car was already damaged when it was received.  On balance I think  damage to the car 
was most likely to have happened  when  the car was still in the garage in Sicily and this 
remains IPAs responsibility. So IPA should  pay Mr N the cost of repairs.
customer service
Mr N has complained about the lack of communication hes had particularly when he 
contacted IPA to report the breakdown of his car. He says he wasnt given any time 
estimates of how long this would take.  I appreciate recoveries do take longer to arrange 
when not in the UK but this doesnt  excuse  lack of communication to keep Mr N updated.
Mr N was provided with a hire car after his car broke  down and he needed  to request an 
extension on the hire. He says IPA took more  than eight hours to confirm the extension  had 
been agreed. In this time they werent able to go anywhere as they were  staying  in a remote 
hotel so needed a car. Mr N says they had to go to the hire car office  themselves  to arrange 
this. Without a car in a foreign country, they felt stranded at the hotel so this only added to 
the distress and inconvenience  they suffered. 
Mr N also says there was miscommunication about the repatriation of the car. He was first 
told he would have  to collect  the car himself then told it would be repaired and driven  back. 
Mr N says hes had to make over twenty calls to IPA just to obtain information about  what  
was happening with his car. He had to wait more than five weeks  from recovery  for IPA to 
repatriate his car. He also said he had lost confidence in IPA and had to arrange his flights  
back to the UK himself.  
IPA accepted there has been issues with the service provided  and paid Mr N £100. I dont 
think this offer adequately reflects all the distress and inconvenience  Mr N has suffered. IPA 
should pay Mr N an additional  £100.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Inter Partner  Assistance  SA. They  must  do the following:-
Pay for repairs of Mr Ns Lotus Elan.
Pay an additional  £100 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Ref: DRN55718453Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5571845