K820x#14complaint
Mr R is the executor of the estate of his late mother (Mrs R). He complains that 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc have  failed to properly exercise their duty of care over his late mother  
and have acted  inappropriately  in the management  of her finances before  she died
background
Mrs R died in December  2014, and Mr R complained about Clydesdales handling of his 
requests made pursuant to the administration of her estate. He says they have been 
obstructive and will not allow him access to the information he requires as a result  of his 
sister (Mrs A) holding  joint account  status with his mother on her Clydesdale  accounts. 
In summary,  he complains that:
Instead of simply adding a signatory to his mothers  accounts as was intended,  
Clydesdale changed the nature of the accounts  and made  Mrs A a joint account-
holder.
Clydesdale allowed withdrawals to be made  from Mrs Rs accounts despite being 
aware of her vulnerabilities, and further  made  no attempt to contact her to establish 
whether she had approved the transactions.
Clydesdale have  been obstructive throughout Mr Rs attempt to administer  the estate 
and have provided poor service  (e.g. failing to return letters and telephone calls).
They have failed  to disclose information about various savings accounts, including  
the whereabouts of interest that was accrued from a cash  ISA.
Clydesdale say that Mrs A was made  a joint account-holder  in October 2008 and that Mrs R 
had signed a mandate to this effect.  As a result, they said that either of the account-holders 
was entitled to make withdrawals as per the mandate, and that they would not be able to 
confirm any further  information about the accounts or withdrawals without the authority of 
Mrs A as the surviving account-holder. Unhappy  with this, Mr R brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  consider that Mr Rs complaint was one we could look at because  he 
didnt think Mr R was an eligible complainant given that the account was now in Mrs As 
name. Mr R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 October  2019. I noted that Clydesdale  had issued 
several final responses addressing the various  complaints Mr R had raised. And I didnt think  
he had referred all of his complaints within the time limits that apply:
Complaint reference  ending 477
Mr R first complained to Clydesdale in February 2015 when he was unable to request 
information relating  to his late mothers accounts  (such as statements, and information about  
direct debits and investments), as well as information relating to the payment of interest  
accrued on Mrs Rs ISA. He also complained about  the poor level of service he had 
received.
Clydesdale explained  that they had provided all the relevant information about Mrs Rs 
accounts that they reasonably could  and also paid compensation  for the poor service he had 
received. But they said they would require Mrs As authority as the joint account-holder to 
Ref: DRN53375002release any further  information about the accounts. The final response was issued  on 
7 September 2015, and the letter  explained that Mr R had six months in which to refer the 
matter to our office. As Mr R didnt refer his complaint to us until 28 May 2018,  Im satisfied 
this complaint was referred to us outside  the six-month time limit.
Complaint reference  ending 500
Mr R raised a subsequent  complaint in November  2015, requesting that Clydesdale  disclose 
further details  about Mrs Rs accounts (such  as her ISA and 40-day notice savings account) 
as well as asking for details relating to the investments she had made.  He also complained 
again about the level of service he had received as Clydesdale failed to respond to his 
letters and telephone calls. 
Clydesdale responded apologising for the poor service Mr R had received and offered to pay 
compensation. But they reiterated that their position remained the same in relation to 
Mrs Rs joint accounts, which was that they would  need Mrs As authority in order  to release 
any further details.
The final response  was issued on 18 February  2016, and the letter explained that Mr R had 
six months in which to refer the matter to our service. As Mr R didnt refer his complaint to us 
until 28 May 2018, Im satisfied this complaint was referred to us outside  the six-month  time 
limit. 
I said I hadnt been informed of any exceptional  circumstances as to why Mr R didnt refer 
these two complaints  in time. As a result, I said I was minded to find that I cannot look into 
any of Mr Rs complaint points relating to Clydesdales  failure to disclose information  about 
Mrs Rs accounts, or the level of service he received on these occasions. 
Mr R raised a further complaint in November 2017, however, where he alleged  that 
Clydesdale had wrongly made  Mrs A a joint account-holder and allowed  large  withdrawals to 
be made from her accounts. He also complained  again about the service he had received 
and said that Clydesdale  had mishandled his correspondence and had generally been 
unhelpful and inefficient. Given that Clydesdale had issued their final response on this 
complaint on 31 January  2018, I didnt consider this part of his complaint to be time-barred.
However, I noted there were other points of jurisdiction that had been  raised  in relation to 
whether we could  look at Mr Rs complaint. In my provisional decision,  I said I was willing to 
give Mr R the benefit of the doubt  and proceed  on the basis  that we could consider the 
merits of his complaint.  But upon  considering the merits, I considered it was bound to fail in 
any event for the following  reasons: 
Considering first Mr Rs allegation that Clydesdale shouldnt have made Mrs A a joint 
account-holder, Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that this wasnt  Mrs Rs 
intention, or that she would not have understood what she was signing. Mrs R signed the 
mandate making Mrs A a joint account-holder in October 2008. And it wasnt until 
February 2013 that she was declared as lacking capacity, so the rebuttable presumption 
here must be that she had the capacity  to contract until that point. So I dont think  
Clydesdale have acted  inappropriately by making Mrs A a joint account-holder given that this 
is what she seemingly signed and instructed them to do. 
Mr R further submits that Clydesdale shouldnt have  allowed Mrs A to make  withdrawals 
from the account, and that they ought  to have established whether his mother had approved 
Ref: DRN53375003the transactions/withdrawals. But the mandate signed by both Mrs R and Mrs A instructs  
Clydesdale to debit  the account  all cheques, orders, payments and withdrawals signed or 
otherwise authorised by either  of us or the survivor. So again, I dont think  Clydesdale  have 
acted inappropriately  by allowing the withdrawals to be made.  Indeed, they would have 
risked breaching their obligations to the account-holders (and exposed themselves  to 
complaints) if they had not done  so. And there  doesnt appear to be any evidence  to suggest 
that the payments were not authorised, such that Clydesdale ought to have made any 
enquiries with Mrs R. So Im not persuaded Clydesdale have acted unreasonably in these 
circumstances either.
Mr R also complains about  the service he has received  from Clydesdale.  I appreciate  he 
feels that Clydesdale have been generally unhelpful. But it appears  that this mainly stems 
from their reluctance to disclose details  or to share  information about Mrs Rs accounts in the 
absence of Mrs As authority. So while I appreciate  it may seem  that Clydesdale are being  
unhelpful, I dont  think it can be said that theyre being deliberately obstructive in these 
circumstances, given  their obligation to protect the data and privacy  of the surviving account-
holder. 
I can see that Mr R has raised his frustrations with Clydesdale  in relation to their handling of 
his requests, and I accept  their service couldve been better on occasions,  as I can see that 
Mr R had to chase for a response to his questions. I understand he may have  found  this 
frustrating, but disregarding the poor service  he received in the past (which, as explained 
above, is time barred) I dont consider the service  he received in this instance to have been 
of such a low standard  that it would warrant the payment of compensation. So I do not intend 
asking Clydesdale  to make any award in these circumstances.  
As a result, I said I did not intend on upholding his complaint. I invited further comments  from 
both parties. Clydesdale had nothing further to add, but Mr R disagreed  with my decision.  In 
summary, he said:
He only intended  to refer his November  2017 complaint to this service and did not 
refer the previous complaints.
As Mrs Rs executor, Mr R stands in her shoes, granting him the same access  to her 
bank account  records as she herself  would have had if she was still alive.  The 
existence of another signatory on the account  wouldnt have limited Mrs Rs access  
and therefore  should not limit his.
His mother was classified as being  partially sighted from 1997,  and thereafter 
suffered a stroke. So by 2004, she had significant difficulties reading and Clydesdale  
was sending all statements and correspondence to her in large print. Eventually, she 
was unable to leave her flat and became bedbound. She may simply have been 
offered a document and told you need to sign here.  They  failed to check  that it was 
Mrs Rs intention that any changes should be made to her account.
Clydesdale failed  to check that it was Mrs Rs own wish that all her future statements  
be sent to Mrs As address.
Clydesdale should have been aware  that the funds in the account remained Mrs Rs 
property under Scottish law. So they were  responsible for ensuring  the security  of the 
funds and that his Mother  was personally aware  of any activity on the account.
Mr R also reiterated points in relation  to Clydesdale failing in their duty of care towards  his 
mother and his objections  regarding the way Mrs A was made a joint account  holder. 
Ref: DRN53375004my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also carefully considered Mr Rs 
recent submissions,  and have set out my response  below.
I appreciate that Mr R may not have specifically wanted to refer his first two complaints with 
Clydesdale (references ending 477 and 500) to this service. However, in his complaint to this 
office, Mr R has sent a significant amount  of correspondence that contains some of the 
same complaint points  that had already been  responded to by Clydesdale in these previous 
final responses. And we are unable to consider any such points that had already been 
responded to as part of his previous complaints. So it was important that we separate  the 
issues he had complained about to determine  what it is we can look at.
For example, in his most recent submissions,  Mr R has referred to the point about 
Clydesdale not providing him access to the account  information without Mrs As authority  as 
the surviving account holder. But as I set out in my provisional decision I cannot  look into 
any of Mr Rs complaint points relating to Clydesdales  failure to disclose information  about 
Mrs Rs accounts as this was dealt with in his previous complaints that are time-barred. In 
any event, assuming that we could consider this point, Clydesdale  has an obligation to 
protect the data and privacy of its customers.  Mrs A is the surviving account holder, so I 
dont think its unreasonable for them to require her consent before  releasing information 
relating to an account in her name. 
Mr R says that his mother would not have known what she was signing or agreeing  to when 
she made Mrs A a joint account holder, and that she may have  just been given a document 
and told to sign here. I understand that Mr R feels strongly about this. But I cant ignore that 
this only appears to be speculative in nature, as there is no persuasive  evidence to suggest  
that Mrs R did not comprehend  what she was agreeing  to. 
I appreciate there were issues with Mrs Rs eyesight. But being partially sighted does not 
mean that she lacked  the capacity to contract.  And as I set out in my provisional decision,  
Mrs R was not declared as lacking  capacity until February 2013,  which  was over four years  
after Mrs A was made a joint account  holder. So the rebuttable presumption is that she had 
the capacity to contract until February 2013. And having considered Mrs Rs circumstances 
as outlined by Mr R  and taking into account  the fact that he was not present at the time the 
account mandate was signed   I still dont consider there to be enough persuasive evidence  
to suggest that Mrs R lacked the capacity to sign the mandate, or did not comprehend what  
she was agreeing to. And theres  also nothing  to suggest that Clydesdale  didnt check what  
Mrs Rs intentions were when she signed the mandate. 
Mr R has reiterated that he feels Clydesdale let his mother down and failed to properly 
exercise their duty of care.  Particularly,  he is unhappy that they failed to check whether it 
was Mrs Rs intention that all her statements be sent to Mrs A, and also that they didnt make 
her aware of the activity taking place on her account.
In terms of the account statements being sent to Mrs A, it isnt clear  when or how this 
request was made. But assuming it was made  after Mrs A was made  a joint account holder,  
she wouldve had the authority to request this, and Clydesdale wouldve been  obliged to 
action the request. I understand  Mr R thinks Clydesdale  should have checked  with Mrs R 
that this was her intention, but Ive seen nothing to suggest they were  obligated  to do this 
when such a request  was made by a joint account  holder.
Ref: DRN53375005Mr R says that Clydesdale should  have clearly  been aware that the funds in the account 
remained his mothers property under Scottish  law. So he says they were responsible for 
ensuring the security  of the funds, such that they should  have  made his mother personally 
aware of any activity on the account.  But again,  the mandate signed  by both 
Mrs R and Mrs A instructs Clydesdale to debit the account all cheques,  orders,  payments 
and withdrawals signed or otherwise  authorised by either of us or the survivor. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision, theres  little evidence to suggest that these payments 
were not authorised, and neither have I seen anything to suggest the money withdrawn was 
not actually intended for Mrs R (for her care, for example). So I dont consider Clydesdale to 
have been under any obligation to check each payment/withdrawal with Mrs R personally if it 
had been authorised by Mrs A as the joint account holder. Indeed, they risked  breaching  
their obligations  to the account holders if they did not action  these requests.  
Mr R says he is close to recovering much of the money from Mrs A, which appears to be the 
dispute at the heart of this matter.  But having considered Clydesdales  actions, I cant say 
that theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably  in the circumstances.   
my final decision
Mr Rs complaints about Clydesdale (references ending 477 and 500) cannot  be considered 
by this service as they have been  referred to us too late.
And in relation to Mr Rs most recent complaint, I do not uphold  it for the reasons outlined 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5337500