K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the level of service provided by PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) in regards  to his payday loan.
background
Mr B said Mr Lender took two payments from his bank  account without his consent. He said 
it refunded one but his credit file said that one amount was still due. Mr B was unhappy with 
the incorrect entry on his credit file, the time taken  by Mr Lender to respond to his complaint 
and to correct his credit file. He wants compensation for the stress  and inconvenience 
caused by him having to resolve this and £40 for the calls he has made. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the initial  
problem had occurred  when Mr Lender  refunded one £30 payment but this left a £30 
balance on Mr Bs account. He thought Mr Lender had asked for Mr Bs credit file to be 
amended, but it took several months  for this to be done. He thought  Mr Lender should refund 
Mr Bs £40 phone  costs and pay him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr Lender replied that it had responded to Mr Bs request as soon as it was aware  of the 
issue. It said it wasnt responsible for any subsequent delays in amending the credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint stems from an earlier issue Mr B had when a double payment was taken from 
his account to repay his payday  loan.  Mr B said this was corrected but it left an incorrect 
entry on his credit file that an amount was outstanding. So Mr B complained again and its 
this issue that Ill consider  here.
As far as I can see, Mr B made Mr Lender  aware of the error on his credit  file on 31 August 
2018. Mr B said hed raised the issue earlier and Mr Lender hadnt then responded. But 
Mr Lender said it had no record  of this. It provided us with its case notes and I cant see 
evidence that Mr B raised the issue earlier. Mr B provided us with extensive email  
correspondence with Mr Lender. But this is all dated from 31 August 2018. So I dont have 
evidence to say that Mr Lender  didnt respond to Mr Bs concern as it should  have.  
Mr Lender replied the same day Mr B raised the issue and said it had asked for the entry to 
be removed from his credit record. Its provided us with evidence to show  this. It said Mr B 
should allow  30 days, until about 2 October 2018, for this correction to show  on his credit  
file. Mr B provided an extract from his credit  file that showed that the error was corrected  on 
30 November 2018. This was two months  later than expected. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration. I think Mr Lender  acted immediately Mr B brought the 
error to its attention,  as I think was fair and reasonable.  Mr Lender later explained  to Mr B 
that it wasnt responsible  for the actions  of the credit  reference agencies  in updating their 
records. However, the consequence  of Mr Lenders  error was avoidable frustration and 
inconvenience for Mr B. I think Mr Lender  should reasonably compensate  him for this. And I 
think £50, as suggested by the adjudicator  is fair and reasonable. Its what  Id award in 
similar circumstances. 
Ref: DRN53404022Mr B said hed been put to considerable trouble and inconvenience in trying  to sort this out 
with the credit reference agencies. He also said hed incurred £40 mobile phone costs.  
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, hes unable to provide evidence of this. But I dont  
think thats unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr B has been consistent  in asking for £40 
compensation for the cost of these calls since he first complained. So I have no reason to 
doubt that he incurred them. And so I think Mr Lender should  reasonably  refund him for this 
avoidable outlay.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) to pay Mr B £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience  and refund him 
£40 for the cost of his phone calls incurred due to its level of service.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5340402