K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
June 2001 alongside a credit card. Mr S, who is represented by a third party, says Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. From what Ive seen 
about the card application  process, I think Mr S made a decision to take out the policy.  Ive 
seen that on his application  form a box was marked with an X to show  hed chosen PPI. He 
also bought another BoS product and made a choice about  when  hed like to schedule his 
card payments. And it looks to me that Mr S had the opportunity to review  his application 
and discuss his choices  with the BoS representative  at the meeting before  making  his 
decision to buy the policy and then sign the application form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S at a meeting in branch  even though  Mr S 
isnt so sure about  this. As a recommendation, BoS had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  I say this given that 
it would  pay out in addition the existing benefits he was receiving from his employer if he 
was unable to work.  And it would pay out for longer  up to 12 months if he couldnt  work 
due to accident or sickness and up to 10 months if hed lost his job  than his existing 
benefits, which hes told us were between 3 and 6 months. The PPI would also pay out on 
top of his employer benefits.  And although Mr S has told his wife would have  been  able to 
support him, thats something that very much depends on circumstances making  that 
possible at the right time. The PPI also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
Mr S made in response  to our adjudicators opinion, they dont  affect my decision. 
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS might not have yet paid this to Mr S. Now that Ive 
issued my decision, if it hasnt already, BoS can make  arrangements to pay the offer sum to 
Mr S. 
Ref: DRN54545912my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5454591