K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains Elite Insurance  Company Limited hasnt paid his claim on his alloy wheel 
insurance policy. 
For ease any reference to Elite includes its agents.  
background
Mr D tried to claim on his alloy wheel insurance policy  in May 2018. A couple  of weeks  later 
Mr D spoke with Elite, he was told they were unable to pay any claims at that time. Because 
of this Mr D complained. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Elites response so he brought  his 
complaint to us. 
Elite said that because of a reinsurance arrangement affecting their assets, a restricted  
payments protocol had been  introduced. Because of this claims were unable  to be paid. In 
October 2018 Elite said the payment restriction had been lifted  and they were  now able to 
pay claims. As this matter had been going on for some time Mr D said he no longer wanted  
his claim paid and asked for a refund for his alloy wheel,  cosmetic repair  and tyre insurance 
policies with Elite.
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ds complaint and recommended  it was upheld. He found that 
as Mr D hadnt claimed on the policy  he would  be entitled to a refund. But he didnt think it 
would be fair to ask Elite to refund the whole  cost of the policies. So he asked Elite to back  
date the cancellation to when Mr D had initially tried to claim.  He also found that Elite hadnt 
kept Mr D updated  during  this time so he recommended Elite pay him £100  for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr D accepted our investigators recommendation. As Elite disagreed the complaint has 
been come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policies say if he hasnt claimed  then hes able to cancel 
the policies before they expire and receive a pro rata refund. The terms and conditions also 
say there  is a £35 cancellation fee. As Mr D hasnt claimed on these policies and he 
requested to cancel  them  before they expired,  he appears to have met the policy terms for 
cancellation. Elite also hasnt provided any reasons as to why it wouldnt  be fair to cancel    
Mr Ds policies in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr D requested to cancel these policies in October  2018, but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable to back date his cancellation to when  he first tried to claim. I say this because  
Mr D only asked to cancel  his policies because Elite hadnt paid his claim. I also think if Elite 
had told him sooner that it would take some time to resolve the payment issue its likely he 
would have asked  to cancel them earlier. Because of this Elite should cancel Mr Ds policies 
from the date he originally tried to claim.  Elite should  also add 8% to this amount from the 
date of cancellation to the date they pay Mr D to compensate him for the time hes not had 
the money.  
Ref: DRN50944662Elite disagreed with the £100  distress  and inconvenience recommended.  They said as the 
payment issue was across all polices and was outside of Elites  control,  there wasnt 
anything else they could do. In regards to the time taken to pay the claim Elites  website 
explains this was because  of an appointment of a liquidator to a third party insurer, who 
reinsures most of Elites  assets. Im therefore  satisfied the delay was outside  of Elites 
control, but I think they could have done  more to keep Mr D updated during this time. 
I say this because  Mr D chased Elites several times  to find out what  was happening. When 
Elite let Mr D know about the problem  they didnt provide  any time scales or let him know  
what other options he may have. From what Mr D said hes had to chase Elite multiple times 
to find out any information  and hasnt  been  kept updated. Elite has also been  unable to 
confirm what updates were given or what was sent.  So its not clear what information was 
given to Mr D during his claim.  
Around four months after the original  date Mr D tried to claim an update was provided,  the 
update explained claims were  starting  to be paid.  However by this point Mr D had said he 
now wanted to cancel his policies. Given the amount of time the payment issue had been  
going on for Im satisfied  Elite could have done more to keep Mr D updated earlier given  that 
hed chased a number of times. Because of this Elite should  pay Mr D £100 for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience he suffered by not being kept updated. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require Elite Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
1.cancel Mr Ds alloy wheel, cosmetic repair and tyre insurance policies, from the date 
he originally tried to claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions
2.pay Mr D £100 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience caused
Interest of 8% simple per year should be applied to 1 above and should be calculated  from 
the date of cancellation until the date of settlement. 
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr Ds 
accepted my final decision. If they pay the compensation later than this they should  add 
interest to 2 above  at 8% simple  per year from the date of my decision until the date they 
make payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Elite Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5094466