K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that she was mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
when she took out a loan with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 1994.
background
Mrs M took out a PPI policy when she borrowed £1,500 over two years.  At the same  time 
she took out a PPI policy which was paid for by borrowing more  the PPI cost an extra 
£287.70. The policy covered Mrs Ms loan payments if she was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness for the term of the loan or for twelve  months  if she was made 
unemployed. It also had life cover attached, so the loan would have  been  paid off if Mrs M 
died. Mrs Ms loan was paid off in 1996.
Mrs M has said she wasnt aware PPI had been  added to her loan and didnt  need  PPI due 
to other  means.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld, but Mrs M disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms complaint. Having done so, Im not going to 
uphold it, but Ill explain why.
did Mrs M have  a fair choice to take out PPI?
Mrs M has said the PPI was added to the loan without her agreement.  Lloyds has said that 
she took out the PPI at a meeting in branch. As there was a face to face meeting I cant  be 
sure what  was said, so Ive looked  at all of the paperwork and thought about what both 
Mrs M and Lloyds have said happened.
I dont have a copy of the actual loan agreement Mrs M signed.  Im not surprised by that as 
the loan closed over twenty years ago and theres  no requirement for Lloyds to keep  this 
information forever. But I have seen a copy of the loan agreements  that were  used at the 
time and Ive got no reason to doubt  Mrs Ms loan agreement looked the same. On it there is 
a section where the cost of PPI is set out and its titled  OPTIONAL  LOAN  REPAYMENT 
PROTECTION. And right next to that there were two options given. There  Mrs M had to tick 
to say she wanted to take out PPI. So I think PPI would have been discussed and presented 
as a separate and optional product. Based on this I think Mrs M chose to take it out. This 
doesnt fit with what  she has said but Im not surprised if her recollections arent clear as the 
sale took place  over twenty years ago and most peoples memories naturally fade with time.
I have thought about another loan Mrs M took out, alongside her husband, in 2000  with 
another lender. With this loan they opted not to take PPI. Mrs M says this shows her past 
attitude to PPI  that she wouldnt choose to take it out. But I dont think it follows  that Lloyds 
have added PPI without her agreement as she didnt take PPI with another loan a few years 
later. Its just as likely she wanted the protection PPI gave her with the earlier loan.
Ref: DRN52312832was the policy suitable for Mrs M?
Mrs M has said she wasnt given any advice, but she cant  remember  how the PPI was sold 
to her. Lloyds has said that it advised her to take out PPI. From what I know  about how 
Lloyds sold PPI at the time, I think its most likely  advice was given. So it had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for her needs.  I think that the recommendation was suitable for the 
following reasons:
Mrs M was eligible for the PPI and doesnt  seem  to be affected  by any of the 
exclusions in the policy. 
Mrs M cant remember what sick pay she was entitled to from work, but I think  its 
likely she would have got at least statutory sick pay. But the policy would  have paid 
out on top of any sick pay she did have and potentially  for longer. I think this could 
have been a benefit to her.
Mrs M said she could  have  got help to pay for the loan from friends  and family. 
Although I have no doubt her friends  and family  would want  to help, theres no 
guarantee that would  have been available  at the time she needed it.
Mrs M has said she had no other way to make  her repayments  if she was out of 
work, so I think PPI gave  her valuable protection.
The policy covered  Mrs M for the whole of the loan term. Although she wouldnt  have  
got a pro rata refund if she cancelled it, I havent seen any evidence that she told 
Lloyds she was likely to pay off or refinance  the loan early.  So I dont think that made 
the policy unsuitable for her.
Mrs M could have  claimed for accident  and sickness for up to twenty four months and 
for unemployment for up to twelve months. But she only needed to claim for four 
months to get back the cost of PPI, so I think it offered value for money.
It appears that Mrs M could  afford the policy at the time and I havent  seen anything 
showing that she had a need to keep her costs down.
was Mrs M given  information that was clear, fair and not misleading?
  
Lloyds had to give Mrs M enough information so that she could decide whether to take out 
the PPI. Ive looked at the documentation thats been provided and I cant  be certain she was 
given all the information about  the policy that she needed, for example Im not sure the total 
amount of interest  charged on the PPI policy was set out separately.  But I think that Mrs M 
would have bought the policy  even if she had all of the information when she signed up for it.
I say this as Mrs M wasnt caught  by any restrictions in the policy  and would have been 
eligible for the full benefits. As Ive already found,  the policy was suitable and affordable for 
her and she chose to take it out. 
So I dont  think that knowing  more about  the cost and benefit  would  have put Mrs M off 
taking it out.
Ref: DRN52312833my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5231283