K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that Citifinancial Europe Limited  mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2002 at the same  time as a 
loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Citifinancial disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Citifinancials comments, but I have still decided  to uphold  this complaint. 
This is because some  of the significant  costs  of the PPI were not made clear to Mr S.
I say this because  the loan document  gave only the initial cost of the single premium,  but did 
not clearly set out how much the premium  would cost after interest was added. Citifinancial 
has said Mr S could  have calculated how much the overall cost would have  been.  But I dont 
think thats realistic or fair. Citifinancial only gave Mr S the original total cost of the premium, 
the interest rate, and the monthly  payments for the overall loan. Mr S would have  needed to 
know how to calculate the effect of the interest rate on the PPI premium, to work out the 
overall cost. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mr S. The interest rate was high and, if Citifinancial had 
presented the information fairly,  hed have seen in real terms how much more the PPI would 
really cost him. I think  it unlikely hed have agreed  to the PPI. 
Ref: DRN50682392fair compensation
Mr S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. So Mr S needs  to get back the extra  hes 
paid. 
So, Citifinancial  Europe  Limited should:
Work  out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Citifinancial Europe  Limited  
can take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes  him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citifinancial Europe Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Citifinancial  Europe Limited  must  give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
I require Citifinancial Europe Limited to pay Mr S compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5068239