K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund £4,850 he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
Background
What Mr A says
Mr A had lived abroad but moved to the UK and started working  here in January 2019. He 
received his first pay in February 2019. On 21 May 2019 Mr A received a recorded voicemail 
message on his mobile from HMRC which provided  a number to call back on and said there 
would be legal implications if Mr A ignored the message. Mr A was worried by the message 
and called back without  checking the number while he was out shopping. Mr A was told 
there was a case against him in respect  of unpaid taxes and he should  urgently return  home 
or to his office  to take care of the matter.
In a state of panic Mr A returned home and called back. He was transferred to someone who 
knew his full name and told him that if he didnt  pay the taxes there  would be legal action 
against him that would  lead to his passport  being blocked. His employer would also be 
notified, and hed lose his job. Mr A was extremely worried. He was in the process  of 
changing jobs and was being vetted.  He was also due to visit his parents outside of the UK 
and both his job and his visit were in jeopardy. 
Mr A explained in the call hed only been  working  in the UK since  January 2019 but was told 
this didnt match HMRC  records. Mr A was told he should pay the amount owing (£5,000, but 
this figure  would be reduced  slightly if he cooperated)  and the funds would be frozen until he 
presented his full case in person to HMRC. The caller gave Mr A the correct HMRC address 
for this. He also gave  Mr A an HSBC number to call to authorise the payment if needed, as 
the payment had to go through to prevent legal action being  taken.  Mr A was told not to tell 
his wife or friends  about the unpaid tax. 
Mr A went  ahead and made  the payment of £4,850 as instructed.  He then contacted  the 
person he believed to be from HMRC  to ask if the payment had been received. Mr A was 
told it hadnt and was asked to make  it again. When Mr A said he didnt have the funds to do 
so he was asked  to borrow from friends  and family.  At this point Mr A became suspicious 
and called the HSBC number hed been given to approve the payment. It was at this stage 
that the scam was uncovered. 
Mr A told the investigator that he had no knowledge  of the UK tax system.  His wife had 
worked in the UK for longer and Mr A says that had she been  at home when he talked to the 
scammer, shed have known he would have  received a letter  from HMRC. Mr A went  on to 
say that he received the scam calls on his new mobile phone. Hed only shared the number 
with his employer  making the call seem  legitimate to him. 
What HSBC say
HSBC say Mr A authorised the payment and it acted  on his instructions in making it. It 
advised Mr A to contact  the receiving bank. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator upheld  the complaint. He accepted that although Mr A authorised the 
transaction, the payment  was unusual and uncharacteristic.  This was because it was a large 
Ref: DRN57246402payment, represented  a sudden increase in spending, was to a new payee  and represented  
a significant proportion of Mr As account  balance. The investigator  said that had contact 
been made with Mr A by HSBC the scam  would  have  become apparent,  as HMRC  wouldnt  
ask for money to be paid in to a Wirecard  account.  He asked HSBC to refund £4,850  
together with interest. 
Mr A accepted the investigators opinion, but HSBC didnt. It said:
-HSBC disputed the contention  that with sufficient questioning the scam would have 
been uncovered  and notes there  wasnt sufficient  concern to flag the payment, there 
was no interaction with bank staff and neither Mr A or HSBC was aware it was a 
scam. 
-The payment  wasnt  unusual. Mr A received around £4,500  a month  from February 
2019.
-HSBC hasnt signed up to and isnt involved in the BSI PAS 17271:2017  Protecting  
customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  - Code of 
practice (the Code) and the Code shouldnt be treated as accepted practice for the 
industry. 
-HSBC is obliged to make requested payments and has limited ability  to stop 
payments once theyve been made.  
-HSBC takes a risk-based approach to identifying fraud  and there would be significant  
detriment to customers if every  payment like Mr As were held up until verified as 
genuine. 
-This services remit is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of a complaint.  In considering whats fair and reasonable this service should take in 
to account the extent  to which Mr As own actions have  contributed to his loss. The 
investigator didnt  consider Mr As own actions in failing to take steps like verifying  
the caller, not investigating if the payment requests  were genuine, not checking  how 
a fine had accrued,  not checking paperwork from HMRC from previous years,  not 
calling HMRC before he made  the payment. The fact that Mr A was not familiar  with 
the UK tax system should have  prompted him to take appropriate steps and he 
should bear some responsibility for his loss.
-HSBC referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)  code and a 
customers requisite level of care under it and said Mr A didnt meet the level of care 
expected of him. Although the code wasnt in force at the time, the concept of a 
customers responsibility to take care isnt new. 
-HSBC finds it inconceivable that a professional like Mr A would accept a payment 
request by HMRC  to a non-HMRC account as being genuine. And the request to 
make a payment  by bank transfer was suspicious. HSBC considers Mr A would be 
familiar with how HMRC operates and that it wouldnt make a threatening call 
requesting payment.  
-The scam Mr A fell victim  to wasnt a sophisticated one. HMRC  has warnings about it 
on its website, and this services  website says, HMRC will never  call you and ask for 
bank details. HSBC says the investigator  failed  to take these points in to account. 
Ref: DRN57246403-HSBC referred to a lack of background information regarding Mr As tax 
arrangements and what happened  in the call. 
HSBC asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint was passed to me to decide.  I 
issued my provisional decision on 16 December 2020 and said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective  systems and controls  for compliance with applicable  
requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for countering the risk 
that the firm might  be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001).
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing  of terrorism requirements. In May 2019 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures  to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through  customer 
due diligence  measures and the ongoing  monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken  throughout the course of 
the relationship).
The law itself also recognises that a bank may liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). The broad legal position that 
a bank is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not absolute 
and Quincecare (like other  matters  I have referred  to here) is an example of that.
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice at the relevant time of Mr As payment  
instruction, I consider  firms should also have taken proactive  steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
Ref: DRN57246404by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); and
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
I have not seen anything that leads me to believe Mr A was a vulnerable  consumer, or in 
vulnerable circumstances, or that the payment was requested in circumstances  that would 
make the Banking  Protocol applicable to this case.  I mention these  things only as part of the 
general background and to illustrate that it may be appropriate in some circumstances for 
banks to intervene or to take additional  steps  in relation to a customer, rather  than simply 
process payments  without  question.
I have also considered HSBCs representations  about the BSI Code. The October  2017  
BSI Code gave  recommendations to organisations for protecting customers  from financial 
harm that might occur as a result of fraud  or financial abuse. It also gives  guidance on how 
to recognise customers who might be at risk, how to assess the potential risks to the 
individual and how to take the necessary  actions  to prevent or minimise financial harm.  Im 
aware that HSBC  was not a signatory to the code. But I am required to take into account 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the time of the transaction when  
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And the BSI Code 
is a fair articulation of what  I consider to have been good  industry  practice at the time of Mr 
As payment request,  notwithstanding HSBCs  submissions. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I consider that at the time of the payment in question, 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr A when he made the payment  of £4,850, or whether it should have done more  than it did.
Ref: DRN57246405Did HSBC act fairly  and reasonably in Mr As case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC should have 
been on the lookout for uncharacteristic or unusual transactions. So Ive first reviewed Mr As 
bank statements for the 15-month period before  the transfer and considered  whether the 
£4,850 payment request  Mr A made  was uncharacteristic and unusual. Im satisfied it was 
and I will explain  why. 
HSBC has referred to the fact Mr A received salary payments  of around £4,500 a month 
from February 2019 onwards. I agree, but dont  consider payments in to be relevant when 
looking at Mr As previous  payment history. Having considered  this, I believe a payment of 
£4,850 was highly unusual for him. In the period before the transfer  Mr A made rent 
payments from February 2019 onwards of £850 and then £1,000  a month  and he transferred 
funds to another HSBC account.  Other than these payments the most  hed transferred  was 
£352.27 on 9 January  2019 and £313.25  on 7 May 2019. The account was used 
infrequently, and other payments were for much  smaller amounts. 
Ive considered HSBCs  comments  about the potential detriment to customers if all payments 
such as Mr As are verified  before  being released.  And I accept theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could  potentially be fraudulent   and then 
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate 
payments. But it is a question of fact and degree in each individual  case. 
I accept HSBCs point that customers do from time-to-time instruct legitimate payments that 
are unusual compared to their usual account activity  and significant in terms of value. But 
that doesnt mean a bank shouldnt make  reasonable  enquiries when there are clear triggers  
or unusual  or uncharacteristic activity. I dont expect banks to distrust  their customers; or act 
as amateur detectives; or unreasonably disrupt  transactions that appear (and are) legitimate; 
or ignore the general principle that consumers  also have responsibility for their decisions and 
the payments  they authorise. But I do think there are certain  cases where,  on those specific  
facts, it would have  been fair and reasonable for a bank to take action because the fraud 
alerts that they are supposed to deploy  for regulatory and legal reasons probably could and 
should have been triggered  by transactions sufficiently unusual  or uncharacteristic  as to 
arouse reasonable grounds  for believing that the authorised payment is in fact an attempt to 
misappropriate funds. For the reasons  Ive explained, Im persuaded that this is just such a 
case. In short, it would  have been  fair and reasonable for HSBC to have intervened  and 
asked discreet questions about  the payment before processing it. Specifically, I consider  
HSBC ought to have contacted Mr A to question him about  the purpose of payment at the 
time. 
Had HSBC contacted Mr A and asked him some  questions about the payment I believe its 
more likely than not the scam would have become apparent and would have been 
prevented. This is because I consider  it more likely  than not Mr A would have been unable  to 
provide plausible answers about  the reason  for the payment. He wasnt  given a cover  story 
and would have  needed to give a spur of the moment  answer  that I think  in all probability 
would have involved a discussion  about  a payment to HMRC. The fact Mr A was in an 
agitated state  was also likely to have  been apparent if he was asked basic  questions about 
the reason for the payment. 
Mr A wasnt  paying an HMRC account, but a Wirecard  account.  HSBC has said this should  
have been a red flag to Mr A and so I think its fair to say this should have alerted HSBC staff 
to a problem and the need to ask further questions. Given Mr As lack of understanding of 
Ref: DRN57246406the UK tax system Im not persuaded he should have known the method of payment was 
unusual or that Mr A would have recognised he wasnt paying an HMRC account. 
I note and accept  HSBCs  comment that Mr A wasnt aware he was being asked to transfer 
money as part of a scam. But I dont think Mr A would have parted with such a substantial  
sum of money had he been told it was likely to be a scam and of some simple steps he could  
take to check the position before making  the payment. 
The warnings HSBC  have  referred  to on HMRCs website and this services website arent 
relevant to this scam as Mr A didnt share  his bank details. HSBC hasnt shown it gave Mr A 
any warnings about the scam he fell victim to. 
I have also considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, a person does  need  to reasonably  foresee  the risk of some  sort of 
loss  not necessarily  the precise loss that occurred  in order to be held liable in 
negligence. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Mr A was careless or partly 
responsible for a loss that he simply did not foresee. 
Its clear from what Mr A has told this service that he wasnt  familiar with the UK tax system 
(which is understandable  given he had only worked in the UK for a few months before the 
scam took place).  And he was convinced that this was a genuine  demand  for taxes and was 
scared of the potential  consequences of not complying. This is a scam that hooks its victims 
in and creates real fear and pressure to act quickly. It exploits the trust that customers  like 
Mr A feel in a legitimate  organisation and its authority. People under pressure often dont 
think or see things clearly  but then suddenly have  a lightbulb moment  as soon as they are 
out of the room or freed  from the stressful situation.  HSBC hasnt persuaded me that Mr A 
recognised the risk or contributed to his own misfortune through careless  acts or omissions 
when making the payment. So, whilst there  may be cases where a proportionate reduction in 
compensation is justified for a customers contributory negligence, Im not satisfied that this 
is one of them. Mr A was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  fraudster.  The 
bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr A was the layperson.  In my view, it was 
the failure of HSBC  that really caused  the loss  but for its insufficient action in the face of 
unusual and uncharacteristic  activity  the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. 
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr A compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering  this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs  actions, rather  than the impact  of the crime 
itself. HSBCs failure to sufficiently act has had an impact on Mr A, not least because he has 
been facing the very real possibility that he would not get his money back. As Ive explained, 
HSBC had an opportunity to prevent  the scam and the loss. For these reasons, Im satisfied 
that HSBC should also pay Mr A £200  for distress and inconvenience. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A accepted my provisional findings but asked me to note the following points:
-The scammer gave  him HSBCs number and walked him through  the instructions on 
how to make sure he authorised the payment if HSBC fraud detection  team called. 
This made the scammer sound legitimate.
-When he made the payment, the scammer  was still on the line.
Ref: DRN57246407-He was threatened that his account would be blocked and he wouldnt be able to 
access his funds,  adding to his stress. 
-He didnt give the scammer  any of his bank details showing that even  under  stress  
he followed best practices.
-Mr A referred to calls hes received when hes made credit card payments from 
unusual locations.  
-Receiving a salary  from a legitimate source is very different to transferring around 
65% of his salary  to a new payee  and should  have  rung alarm bells with HSBC.
HSBC didnt accept  my findings. It provided  a recording of the call Mr A made when he 
reported the scam and asked me to consider the following:
-HSBC asked Mr A whether he was told he owed tax for the current year and he said 
he was told it was for 2015 and 2016,  which didnt make sense as he wasnt 
employed in the UK then. 
-HSBC believes that making the payment in these circumstances was illogical and 
irrational and amounts to contributory  or even gross negligence. 
-A government body wouldnt blackmail  and threaten someone as Mr A described. 
These actions should have  been a clear  red flag for Mr A to call HMRC directly.
-Even if HSBC had queried the payment its likely Mr A would have misadvised it 
about the reason for the payment, especially given the threats  and the fact the 
scammer coached him. 
-Mr A didnt  receive any threats  about contacting HMRC directly  and this would have 
been a reasonable step for him to take to validate  the scammers request. Mr A was 
given until the end of the day for the funds to be received,  so had time to make  his 
own enquiries before sending  the payment. 
-
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and taken in to account  the same  
considerations I set out in my provisional  decision above. Having done so Ive reached the 
same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
HSBCs response to my provisional decision focuses on whether Mr A acted with gross  
negligence or contributed  to his own loss. 
Gross negligence
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think  it fair 
and reasonable to conclude, the use of gross negligence, rather than negligence, 
suggests a lack of care,  that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence. 
Its common for scammers to apply pressure and threaten  legal action in order to panic 
customers into acting the way they wish them to, which  is what  happened in Mr As case. I 
dont accept that Mr A acted with disregard or indifference  to an obvious  risk. It follows  that I 
dont consider Mr A acted  with gross negligence. 
Did Mr A contribute to his own loss?
Ref: DRN57246408I commented on contributory negligence in my provisional decision and nothing  HSBC has 
said in its response has led me to change my mind.  HSBC  hasnt persuaded me Mr A 
recognised the risk he wasnt in fact paying HMRC or that he contributed to his own 
misfortune through  careless acts or omissions.  
HSBC has said that as Mr A wasnt told by the scammer not to contact HMRC  directly  he 
should have done so. But as far as Mr A was concerned, he was in contact with HMRC  and 
this was the whole basis of the scam. 
I accept that Mr A couldnt have owed tax for a year in which he didnt live in the UK. Mr A 
has explained (and this was covered in the Background  section of my provisional  decision) 
that he told the scammer hed only worked in the UK since January 2019. The scammer told 
Mr A this information didnt match its records and he should pay the amount owed and it 
would be frozen until Mr A presented his full case in person to HMRC. Mr A was given the 
address of HMRC  for this purpose.  So Mr A questioned the caller but made  the payment 
because he was scared of the repercussions if he didnt and because he believed that when 
he presented his case the payment  could  be refunded to him. 
HSBC has commented  that Mr A was given until the end of the day to make payment and so 
had time to make his own enquiries before making  it. Mr A said in his call to HSBC  when he 
reported the scam that he received the scam  call at around 4.15 in the afternoon. In that call 
he was told he had to make the payment  by the end of the day. Mr A has explained he was 
out when he received the call and went home to return the scammers call. In the 
circumstances, I consider Mr A was under considerable time pressure and his quick 
payment is even more  understandable. 
HSBC also said that even if it had asked Mr A some questions when he made  the payment it 
would not have made a difference, as Mr A would have misadvised HSBC. For the reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision, I consider that if HSBC had asked Mr A some questions 
about the purpose of the payment the scam  would  have been uncovered. Mr A was in an 
agitated state,  felt under considerable pressure  to make the payment quickly and wasnt  
given a cover story by the scammer. I consider he wouldnt have been able to give plausible  
answers on the spot and that its more  likely  than not hed have referred to unpaid  tax. But 
Mr A was transferring to a Wirecard account  so couldnt have been paying HMRC.
Overall, and for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision, I believe HSBC should  refund 
the £4,850 payment Mr A made together with interest  and £200  to compensate him for the 
additional stress and inconvenience HSBCs  actions  have caused. 
My final decision  
I uphold this complaint  and require HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
-Pay Mr A £4,850, less any funds already  recovered and refunded to Mr A. 
-Pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
transfer to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from the interest element of 
this award, it should provide Mr A with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
-Pay Mr A £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Ref: DRN57246409Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5724640