K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday  and four instalment loans that Uncle  Buck provided to 
Mrs W between  April 2014 and November 2015. Mrs W borrowed amounts between  £200 
and £300 to be repaid in one or three  monthly instalments. There was a significant  gap in 
her borrowing between  loans two and three. Mrs W repaid all her loans though she struggled  
to repay  loan seven.   
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ws complaint in part and thought loans one, two, six and seven 
shouldnt have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN50811632Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mrs W for information  about her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mrs W told Uncle Buck that she earned £2,800 to £2,900 monthly. Uncle  Buck 
said Mrs Ws short-term  balances at the time of loan one were £640.  It thought  she would be 
able to afford to repay these and her loan one repayment. 
But, as our adjudicator  explained, the affordability  check for loan one showed that Mrs W 
was having problems managing her money. Uncle Bucks own credit check  on Mrs W 
showed that she had several outstanding  short-terms loans when  she applied for loan one. 
So I think Uncle Buck  should have realised  that Mrs W would be unable to sustainably  repay  
loan one and any subsequent loans  in this chain. And I think Uncle Buck  was wrong  to 
approve loans  one and two. 
There then followed a six month break in Mrs Ws borrowing. So I think Uncle  Buck could 
reasonably treat loan three  as the start of a new chain of borrowing and apply the 
affordability checks that were appropriate.  
For loans three to five, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about  Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Uncle Buck , I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs W provided  or the information 
Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mrs W was saying. So I cant say it was wrong  for Uncle Buck  to have 
approved loans three, four and five. 
Uncle Buck  said it had checked Mrs Ws outgoings for loans six and seven with her. She had 
confirmed her disposable income  as £897.  But by loan six I think  Mrs Ws overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested that she had become persistently reliant on short term lending. Mrs W 
had taken out four loans in eight  months. The amounts she borrowed didnt significantly 
decrease for loan six or seven. I think the pattern of lending shows that the loans were  
unsustainable. So I think Uncle Buck was wrong  to approve loans six and seven. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans one, two, six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN50811633remove any negative information  about loans one, two, six and seven from Mrs Ws 
credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  I 
require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mrs W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5081163