K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that a predecessor company of Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada  
(U.K.) Limited wrongly sold her a savings endowment policy  in 1984. She said she was 21, 
single, with no dependents,  had no investment  experience  and.no need for life cover,  all of 
which made this plan a waste  of money.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 11 November  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Sun Life disagreed  with my provisional  decision,  and highlighted the following arguments:
The policy was taken  out pre-A-Day, before there was a requirement to document  
discussions surrounding risks,  alternatives etc or complete a fact find
While  many single 21-year olds may have shorter  term needs  than a15-year policy, 
there is simply no evidence that this 21-year-old fitted any possible stereotypes
The client may well have had a list of other risk-based  tax-efficient savings,  a 
possible inheritance  and a significant emergency  fund in place; we simply do not 
know their circumstances at outset. It is unfair to presume that the adviser mis-sold 
the policy when  he was not required to record such information  at the time of the sale
Similar previous decisions concerning pre A-Day sales - where  the information from 
the point of sale was limited  - have not been upheld  (for example, because  the 
ombudsman felt the client would have been aware of what they were  taking out, 
because the policy  was affordable for the duration of the term and/or there was no 
evidence to suggest it was too inflexible for their requirements
While  the client was documented as single, this simply means that they were not 
married; there being no option for co-habiting etc. So, we do not know  whether or 
not she would have benefitted from the small amount of life cover  on the policy  
(which also made  the policy qualifying)
The monthly premium was only £15 per month  and as such  this relatively  modest 
amount would not make the contract  that inflexible/rigid and it would be reasonable to 
assume it could be maintained throughout (which it was); so the impact  of surrender 
penalties is less relevant
The policy matured with a profit
It Is not clear that the risks or general  costs of the policy were inappropriate
There was no explicit charge for the life cover
If the client genuinely felt the policy was inappropriate, why it has taken them nearly  
20 years  to complain after the policy matured (and nearly 35 years to complain since  
its inception)?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, there  is no evidence to suggest Ms W thought this policy was inappropriate when it 
matured or since, up until she spoke to a Claims Management  Company (CMC)  recently. 
Having read the points  made on her behalf, I think it is more likely than not that it pointed  
these out to Ms W and that she agreed to make a complaint on this basis.  As Sun Life gave 
Ref: DRN53560772this service permission to consider this complaint, we are obliged  to do so despite the length 
of time since  the original  advice.
Given this, and despite there being very little information about the sale (unsurprisingly  given  
the limited requirements  of the time), it is my responsibility to consider whether this policy 
was, on balance, likely to have been a reasonable fit for Ms Ws circumstances at the time. 
The fact that she retained the policy for the required 15 years is relevant,  but it does not 
automatically make the original recommendation appropriate.
Overall, my role is to decide on a complaints merits based on the balance  of probabilities; 
and for the reasons outlined in my provisional  decision  I am still satisfied that this complaint 
should be upheld  by that criterion.
There is no persuasive evidence to suggest  Ms W had any need for life cover,  whether  this 
be because of dependents or a potential cohabitee.  Ms W said she no dependents and I am 
satisfied that this was more likely  than not to have been the case. So, Sun Lifes  statement 
that this policy contained  life cover  payable to Ms Ws beneficiaries begs the question who 
were these alleged  beneficiaries and did the advisor clarify if Ms W had anyone she wanted 
to receive £8,700 in the event of her death.  According to the requirements of the time,  the 
advisor needed to act with due skill, care and diligence. On this issue there is no evidence to 
indicate that he did so.
I have considered all of Sun Lifes additional objections, but I dont think  any of these warrant  
reversing my view about  the overall  merits of this complaint.  Ive not said that Ms W failed to 
receive the initial paperwork nor that the investment itself was too risky/necessarily 
unsuitable. The grounds on which I believe the complaint  should  be upheld  are solely the 
required minimum commitment of 15 years and the unnecessary reduction in yield to pay for 
life cover.
Sun Life claims that the premiums were so modest  that there was never going to be a 
problem with Ms W being able to afford  to pay them for at least 15 years.  But, as it admits,  
there is no information about  Ms Ws situation  at the time: was she employed and, if so, what  
was she earning? Had she been to college and a debt or was planning to do so at some  
point? Let alone issues like potential travel  plans, stopping work to have  a family etc. I dont 
agree that it is reasonable to assume she was in a position to know  whether she would want 
to stick to this savings plan for 15 years or would necessarily have been sure she could 
afford to do so.
While £15 a month (£180  a year) sounds a very modest sum,  the equivalent figure today 
(taking account of inflation) is around  £500 a year. On balance,  I do not believe that a 21-
year old can necessarily safely  predict  whether they will want to commit £500 a year to a 
medium to long-term savings plan when their circumstances and objectives  are highly likely 
to change over such a crucial period of their life.
Finally, I accept that this policy delivered a healthy return on surrender. In upholding this 
complaint, I have not calculated whether Ms W would  have  received a larger  sum if her 
money had been  invested  more flexibly (without  paying for life cover) using the redress  
formula I outlined. It may be that this calculation shows there  has been no loss.
In assessing potential loss Sun Life must  calculate what  return  Ms W would  have received 
on these premiums if shed enjoyed a growth equivalent to 1% above Bank of England base  
rate  up to the date of surrender. It should then deduct the surrender value from this sum. If 
Ref: DRN53560773this equation shows a loss it must pay this and add 8% simple interest per annum to this 
figure, from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited 
to pay compensation  as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53560774provisional decision
complaint
Ms W complains that a predecessor company  of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  
Limited wrongly sold her a savings endowment  policy  in 1984. She said she was 21, single, with no 
dependents, had no investment experience and.no need for life cover, all of which  made this plan a 
waste of her money.
background
Sun Life rejected  her complaint. It said this sale took place before the Financial Services Authority 
introduced specific  regulations about what information advisors needed  to obtain and record, and 
what considerations needed to inform their recommendations. But it was satisfied this was a 
reasonable recommendation  based on the available  information and noted that Ms W had kept the 
plan for the minimum recommended period of 15 years. It also said it had no information  about the 
reduction in yield as a result of the life cover  charges.
An investigator at this service broadly agreed with this assessment, saying  the fact that the plan 
included life cover charges did not make  it unsuitable.
Ms Ws representative did not agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review the case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Given when this sale took place advisors were only required to ensure that a recommendation was a 
reasonable fit for their clients. They did not have to consider other alternatives or complete a detailed 
record of their clients needs,  circumstances, attitude to risk etc.
However, this service is still entitled to consider complaints about  recommendations dating from this 
time and to assess whether the advice appears to have been a reasonable fit for the person 
concerned based on the available evidence.
In this case I dont believe this plan was a reasonable fit, and for two reasons.
Firstly, there is no evidence to suggest  Ms W wanted or needed life cover and the cost of this clearly 
reduced the amount  of her monthly sums which were invested. I can see no justification for paying for 
something she didnt need and losing  out on the potential investment return on these  sums. In this 
context it doesnt matter  how much the life cover  cost was, it was - as her representative  says - a 
waste of money.
Secondly, this plan needed  to be retained for at least 15 years to deliver reasonable returns based on 
its charging structure. If Ms W had surrendered it within a decade, let alone  after just two or three 
years, she would have ended up paying  a disproportionate amount in charges.
Yet it is very unlikely that most 21-year olds would be able to safely predict whether they will want to - 
or be able to afford to - commit to a long-term and rigid savings commitment like this. Whether 
because of a change of job, unemployment, new home/family/mortgage commitments or simply  other 
priorities, there are a myriad of reasons why a 21-year-old might decide  at some point during the 15 
years that they no longer want to carry on paying into this plan. Depending on when they stopped this 
could have a significant or crippling impact on how much they got back.
Ref: DRN53560775So, even if this plan hadnt included life cover,  I dont  believe it would have been a reasonable fit for 
Ms W at the time of advice.  The fact that she did retain it for 15 years does not alter the fact that it 
was not a reasonable fit for her circumstances  in the first place.
Sun Life must therefore compare  the amount  Ms W received when she encashed  this plan with what  
she might  have got if she had invested the same monthly sums on the same dates but without any 
deductions for life cover. 
I think  it is arguable  whether  she should have been advised  to simply put these  sums in a deposit  
account or a more flexible risk-based investment with no life cover charges.  But as she kept this plan 
for 15 years, I think it is reasonable to base  redress on the investment returns formula of the Bank of 
Englands base rate plus 1%.
If this comparison shows a loss Sun Life must pay this and add 8% simple interest per annum  to this 
figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.  
my provisional  decision
I am currently satisfied that this complaint should be upheld, and that Sun Life should pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5356077