K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with their broker, Jelf Insurance Brokers  Limited.  They use it to 
arrange their cover  for their three rental  properties but in respect of the January 2018 
renewal it didnt give enough notice and Mr and Mrs C felt its general  service was poor.
background
Mr and Mrs C own three  properties which they rent out. Jelf had arranged  cover for these 
properties for them before. In late 2017 Mr and Mrs C were  concerned  that they hadnt 
receive renewal details and their cover was due to end in January 2018. They emailed the 
Jelf representative  who had handled  their cover the year before. They got no reply. 
On 27 December 2017 Mr C called Jelf. He discovered the representative hed emailed had 
left. He was unhappy no one had told him. Renewal documents were  sent to Mr and Mrs C 
that day. Mr C was concerned as they didnt show the loss of rent cover hed specifically 
selected the year before. He spoke  to Jelf, it explained the cover was there,  but the format of 
the policy schedule  and wording had changed. Mr and Mrs C agreed to the renewal  quote  
but told Jelf they were  unhappy.
Mr and Mrs C told Jelf that they felt forced to accept the renewal  as its failure  to notify them  
in time, provide  a comparison for last years cost of cover and to explain the key changes  to 
them, had prevented them from shopping  around. They  paid for the insurance less the £45 
administration fee charged by Jelf. They said they were also unhappy about Jelfs processes 
and procedures  both for renewal and regarding complaints. 
Jelf accepted it had failed  Mr and Mrs C regarding the renewal. It agreed internally to 
write-off the administration fee, but didnt clarify this in the final response letter it sent to them 
wherein it apologised  for the way it had handled their renewal. Jelf said it had clarified the 
cover with Mr and Mrs C when they had raised a query and that it didnt have to provide a 
comparison regarding the cost of cover. Mr and Mrs C complained  to this service.
Our investigator felt Jelf had failed Mr and Mrs C at renewal but its apology and wavier  of the 
£45 fee fairly  and reasonably made up for that. He noted that Mr and Mrs C hadnt sought to 
find other cover or change  their policy at the time of renewal, and whilst theyd since  shown 
that for the 2019 renewal  they could find cheaper cover, this didnt mean that would have 
been available to them in 2018. He also felt Mr and Mrs C, knowing in December 2017 that 
renewal was upcoming, and given the cooling off period  for the new cover,  could have 
shopped around for alternate  cover. He explained  that we have no remit to look at how Jelf 
handled the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C said brokers will not offer quotes  once there is an existing policy in place, so 
they needed time prior to renewal to arrange  cover which Jelf prevented them  from doing  
without its renewal offer they couldnt  make  an informed decision. They said they were 
surprised that Jelfs processes are of no interest to us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59734902I understand that it must  be frustrating  for Mr and Mrs C to learn that we cant  look at every 
aspect of their complaint.  However, there are rules  which govern this service and they say 
we can only look at complaints about  regulated activities.  Complaint handling  is not a 
regulated activity. So whilst it may be that Jelf has not handled  their complaint well  and 
I note that whilst it waived  the administration fee, its final response letter did not reflect this 
decision  I cant make any finding against  it about  what it did and how it went about  that. 
I can only consider if its response  to the complaint was fair and reasonable. I think  it was.
I look at that failure  in more detail shortly, but I also need to explain that whilst I know 
Mr and Mrs C have concerns about  Jelfs  staff member leaving,  I dont think their complaint 
turns on that event.  Jelf, as a broker providing  advised insurance sales,  should have 
systems in place to allow it to provide  an adequate service to its customers  that is not 
dependant on the employment of individual staff.  On this occasion Jelf failed  Mr and Mrs C 
as an adequate service wasnt provided. 
Jelf should have given Mr and Mrs C more notice regarding renewal. And I note from its file 
that it wasnt just that renewal terms hadnt  been  communicated to Mr and Mrs C before they 
called on 27 December. Rather it seems their renewal hadnt even been considered. I share 
Mr and Mrs Cs concerns  as to what would have happened if they hadnt  called  when they 
did. Im not persuaded renewal would have  been arranged.
However I cant base my findings on what might have been  but wasnt because of action 
being taken by a prudent  policyholder. I have to consider whether the failure which  did occur 
 renewal not being arranged until about  two-weeks before the current  cover  was due to 
lapse  materially affected Mr and Mrs C. 
It is clear that Mr and Mrs C did get cover that suited them in place for renewal. So they 
didnt have any break in cover. But I accept it was a frustrating and worrying time for them.  
I havent seen  though  that they spent time checking  for other  policies and obtaining quotes. 
And I note that when  we asked them for this information they said they hadnt done this. 
They then obtained  quote for the upcoming  renewal year and there  was some small saving 
against the cover Jelf had offered and arranged in 2018. But I dont know  that these prices 
would have been available to Mr and Mr C if theyd shopped around in late 2017 and 
early 2018.  So they havent shown to me that they most likely had a loss as result  of Jelfs 
failure to properly handle and organise  their renewal. 
I appreciate that whilst Jelf said it didnt  have to provide a comparison of premiums  because 
it is providing a commercial insurance policy, Mr and Mrs C dont consider themselves to be 
commercial consumers. Nevertheless, I dont think the fact that there  was no premium  
comparison within the renewal documents really affected Mr and Mrs Cs ability to make  an 
informed decision about cover. Particularly,  as noted above, they didnt look for alternate 
cover until a year later. 
A broker should highlight any changes in cover to its policyholders.  But the issue 
Mr and Mrs C had concerns over here did not arise  from a change  in cover.  The cover had 
remained the same but the way that cover was dealt with within  the policy  documents had 
changed. When Mr and Mrs C asked about  this, Jelf provided  them  advice which answered 
their concern. I cant reasonably expect it to have done more than this. 
I see that Mr and Mrs C have  recently asked why, given Jelf found  them  a lower quote this 
year, this price wasnt offered last year.  Whilst I understand  this is frustrating, a broker  can 
only put forward cover which is available to it, and the related price of that. Jelf offered 
Ref: DRN59734903renewal in January  2018 based on the lowest priced  quote  it had obtained for suitable  cover 
(based on what it knew Mr and Mrs C needed  from their cover for the year before). I cant 
reasonably expect it to have provide  a lower priced quote  which it hadnt obtained.  
Overall, I think Jelf did fail Mr and Mrs C in respect  of handling  their renewal due in 
January 2018.  However, I note its agreement (made internally before it issued its final 
response on the complaint) to not pursue Mr and Mrs C for payment of the £45 
administration fee which theyd withheld when they paid the premium in February  2018.  
I also note that Jelf apologised to Mr and Mrs C. Im not persuade it would be fair or 
reasonable to make  Jelf do more in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Jelf Insurance  Brokers  Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5973490