K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) sent sensitive and 
confidential information to the wrong address. 
background
Barclaycard wrote to Mrs P in October  2018 to tell her it was refunding some fees and 
interest shed incurred on a credit  card that had defaulted. But Barclaycard didnt send the 
letter to Mrs Ps current address and instead  sent it to an address she moved  out of 10 years 
ago. As a result, Mrs Ps parents (who  live at the old address) received and opened the 
letter. 
Mrs Ps explained that this caused a lot of embarrassment and upset because  her parents 
werent aware shed  experienced  financial difficulties. Mrs Ps told us this issue has caused  
serious problems between her and her parents. 
Mrs P complained and Barclaycard offered her £150 to apologise. Mrs P didnt feel 
Barclaycards offer was fair so referred her complaint  to this service.  An adjudicator looked 
at what had happened and asked Barclaycard to increase  its offer to £300  as they thought  
the existing offer didnt fairly  reflect the impact of its error on Mrs P. 
Barclaycard didnt agree and said that Mrs Ps parents shouldnt  have opened post that 
wasnt addressed  to them. Barclaycard also said it cant be held responsible for Mrs Ps 
decision not to disclose her personal  circumstances to her parents. Barclaycard asked for 
the complaint  to be appealed so its been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as the adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
The adjudicator explained that this service cant look at whether Barclaycard broke the rules  
governing how businesses handle information. Thats something Mrs P would need to take 
up with the Information Commissioners Office,  the regulator. But we can look at whether a 
business has fulfilled  its duty to keep  private  information confidential.  
Barclaycards said only Mrs P shouldve opened mail addressed  to her but I think  that 
misses the point. We dont know the circumstances under which  the letter was opened. 
What we do know is that this issue wouldnt have occurred if Barclaycard had written  to 
Mrs P at the right address. 
And I dont  think Barclaycards point about whether Mrs P told her parents about her 
financial position is fair. Mrs P is entirely free to decide what information she shares and, 
again, Im satisfied details  of her account with Barclaycard wouldve remained private if the 
letter had been sent to the right address. 
Mrs Ps told us about the impact of Barclaycards error and I can understand why shes so 
upset. I agree that the initial £150 Barclaycard  offered  doesnt  reflect  the impact of what 
happened. 
Ref: DRN59897342Mrs Ps told us that the situation affected  her performance at work as well as her family life. 
Ive got no reason to doubt  what Mrs P says and I can appreciate why she was so upset  that 
information of this nature was shared with her parents. Its been  clearly established 
Barclaycard failed in its duty to keep confidential information private and thats had an impact 
on Mrs P. Im satisfied the existing settlement isnt fair so Im telling Barclaycard to increase 
its offer to £300,  taking into account everything thats happened.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs P 
£300. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5989734