K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire Building  Society, trading as Norwich and Peterborough Building 
Society (YBS) mis-sold  them  two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies with their 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out the first PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997  and the second  with a 
further mortgage advance in 2000. The mortgages were arranged  through 
Norwich and Peterborough Building Society   part of YBS.  The mortgages were arranged  
based on 
Mr and Mrs Cs income   and the PPI policies were set-up to pay a monthly benefit in the 
event of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to YBS about the sales of the policies. They said the policies were 
compulsory  and they didnt have  a choice about whether to take them or not. YBS didnt 
agree that the policies had been  mis-sold.  But it did agree that the first policy was conditional 
on receiving the 1997  mortgage  rate. It wasnt conditional for the second  policy.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didn't think  it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs C didn't  agree. They also referred to another earlier  PPI policy  but the 
adjudicator confirmed with YBS that it didn't have any records of that. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, its been  passed to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
There isnt a lot of information  available  from when both policies were  sold, particularly for 
the 1997 sale. I dont find this surprising  bearing  in mind how long its been since  the sales 
took place. When  there  is very little evidence available  I have to base my decision on what  I 
think most likely  happened.
the 1997 sale
It is not in dispute  that this policy was conditional on the 1997  mortgage application being 
accepted. So the issue for me to think about here is whether YBS clearly  made  
Mr and Mrs C aware  of this. Ill also think about whether the policy  was something they could  
benefit from. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they took the policy as they needed the mortgage so this suggests 
to me they were aware the PPI was being added. As the mortgage was conditional on the 
policy being taken  as well, and if Mr and Mrs C hadnt wanted  to take it, the other  option  for 
them was to go to another  mortgage provider. But they didn't. 
 
So for the 1997 sale, PPI was compulsory and was added  to the account with 
Ref: DRN53413122Mr and Mrs Cs knowledge. And Mr and Mrs C were  likely to have been aware  that they 
could have chosen a different mortgage provider where the PPI was not compulsory,  or 
arranged their mortgage with a different lender. So I dont think it was mis-sold to them.  
the 2000 sale
For the 2000 sale, YBS has told us the policy wasnt conditional and that Mr and Mrs C had 
a choice about taking it. YBS has been  able to provide a copy  of the offer of advance letter 
and its said that if the PPI had been  a condition of the mortgage  then this would have been 
referred to in the letter.
The letter doesnt include  any reference to the PPI, and there  is other insurance mentioned. 
So in the absence of any other evidence, I think it most likely that Mr and Mrs C chose to 
take the policy and that it wasnt compulsory.
both policies 
YBS didn't  recommend the policies to Mr and Mrs C so it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for them. But Ive thought about why Mr and Mrs C would have decided  to take the 
policies and whether they were something they could benefit from.  
Mr and Mrs C were both employed at the times  of the sales. Mr C would only receive  
statutory benefits  if he wasnt able to work. Mrs C would have received employee benefits  of 
around three  months  if she wasnt able to work. But the policies would have paid the monthly  
benefit for up to 24 months per claim if they were unwell and for up to 12 months if they lost 
their jobs.  
So I think they would have found the policies to be a useful benefit in what could have been 
a difficult time if either of them werent  in work. And any other benefits they may have 
received could have been  used for other  essential outgoings. Mr and Mrs C recall they had a 
small amount of savings  but the policy would  have ensured the savings remained intact for 
their original purpose, or other emergencies. 
I think Mr and Mrs C could have benefitted from the policies and it gave them  a financial 
comfort they didn't otherwise have.  
Im not sure that Mr and Mrs C was given all of the information about the PPI policy  at the 
time it was taken out, for example I cant be sure how clearly  the cost and benefit were 
explained. But I think they chose to take out the policy so it appears that they wanted this 
type of cover. They could benefit  from the policy and I dont think theres anything in the 
information they may not have that would have put them off taking out the cover. So I think  
that they would have  taken it if they had all of the right information.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr and Mrs C have told us but, I think  Mr and Mrs C were 
aware that the policy was compulsory for the 1997 mortgage based  on the product they took,  
but chose to take it. And theres nothing to show me that the for the 2000 sale,  they were  
told the policy was a condition of the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs C would have been able to 
benefit from the policy. And so I dont think these policies were mis-sold.
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI for the 2000 policy  only to Mr and Mrs C.
 
Ref: DRN53413123This is because the Supreme Court  decided a case that involved the commission  on a PPI 
policy  Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - 
who make  the rules for financial businesses - have introduced some new rules and guidance 
for businesses to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints that are affected by this court 
ruling. 
What this means is that if businesses expected to get a high level of commission  from the 
PPI - more than half of what the consumer paid for the policy - they should  have  told the 
consumer about  it. If that didnt happen,  it might mean the business  didnt  treat the consumer 
fairly. And, in turn the business might  have to give the consumer some of that commission 
back.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements  
taken out before then which were still running  on 6 April 2008.
what YBS needs to do for the policy taken in 2000
If it hasnt  already done so, YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs C any extra interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policies were  mis-sold so I dont uphold 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  about Yorkshire Building  Society (trading as Norwich  and 
Peterborough Building Society).
But if it hasnt done so already, Yorkshire Building Society (trading as 
Norwich and Peterborough Building Society) should  repay any commission or profit  share it 
received above  50% of the PPI premium for the 2000 sale to Mr and Mrs C. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5341312