K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about the length  of time it took British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) to fully 
restore power to her home, after she claimed  on her home emergency policy.
background
Mrs J told us that she had a home emergency policy with BGI. She rang it late on a Saturday 
evening, to say that the power  had gone  out in her home. BGI came out in the early hours of 
Sunday morning,  and then sent another engineer on Sunday.  They  managed to restore hot 
water, the shower, lights and her hob. 
Mrs J said that the second engineer thought that hed identified where the fault was. It was 
behind a heavy  fridge freezer in her kitchen. But she said that BGI didnt manage to fully 
restore power until the following Friday. 
Mrs J said that BGI had paid her £180  in compensation. But she didnt think  that was enough 
to make up for what had gone wrong, how much  it had inconvenienced her, and how much it 
had cost her too. She said that this happened in July, and she was unable  to store food or 
make meals.  She couldnt  even have a cold drink  other than water. She said shed had to 
eat out or rely on family and friends for the time when she was without power.
Mrs J said that shes  the main carer for her elderly parents, and was anxious  not having  the 
ability to contact them, as she had no landline and couldnt charge her mobile  phone. She 
also said that she had to take annual  leave for the time she waited in for engineers,  because  
she had no internet at home, so couldnt  work  from home instead. 
Mrs J wanted us to look at her case,  and see if the amount of £180 shed been  paid by BGI 
was really enough.
BGI said that it sent someone out on the Saturday  night, who wasnt  able to fix the problem.  
Someone else came out on Sunday, who thought the problem was behind  Mrs Js large 
fridge, in her kitchen.  The appliance was too large  for him to move, so he couldnt solve the 
whole problem. But he did leave Mrs J with some  power. 
Another engineer  was booked to attend  on Monday, but he was unwell, and wasnt  able to 
go. BGI said that Mrs J had accepted  a rebooked  appointment for Thursday. It seems  to 
have suggested  when it wrote to Mrs J that the problem was fixed  then. But its internal notes  
show another appointment on Friday. 
BGI said that it wouldve paid for hotel accommodation if Mrs J had wanted it. But she didnt. 
It thought that the payment it had made to her, of £180, was enough  to make up for the 
inconvenience. It didnt  think  it had to do any more. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that BGI had put a temporary fix in 
place, so Mrs J had lights, hot water, a shower,  and some cooking facilities. He knew  the 
repairs had taken some  time.  But he noted that BGI had offered Mrs J hotel  accommodation 
if she wanted it. And he didnt think that it was BGIs fault that an engineer  was sick, so 
couldnt make the Monday appointment. Overall,  our investigator thought that the £180  that 
BGI had paid was a fair amount to make  up for the inconvenience to Mrs J. 
Ref: DRN57586032Mrs J didnt agree with that. She said that she didnt expect a lesser  standard of service  due 
to BGIs lack of engineer cover in times  of staff sickness. She said that the delay was longer 
than our investigator thought because although  the problem had been identified on Sunday, 
it wasnt repaired until Friday. 
Mrs J also didnt think that this compensation amount was comparable to a previous 
compensation payment shed received from BGI. She said shed had six days without power  
in one of the hottest summers. Food had gone  off, she couldnt cook at home, because 
although she had a working  hob there  was no fridge.  She told us how much this problem had 
inconvenienced her. 
Mrs J also said that shed  been offered hotel accommodation when she first reported  the 
incident. She said shed turned that down because she wanted to remain  close  to her elderly 
parents, and also because she didnt expect  the problem to take six days  to fix. 
Mrs J wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Mrs J had a home emergency policy with BGI. Among other  things, this policy  said that it 
would cover repairs to the mains  electrical system and wiring in Mrs Js home. BGI 
seemed to have  accepted that it was responsible under  Mrs Js policy for completing 
repairs to fix this electrical problem in her home.  
-The engineer  who visited on Sunday had apparently identified the cause of the problem, 
but not been able to resolve  it. The problem was behind the fridge  freezer, which was 
just too big for him to move by himself. I didnt think that it was unreasonable  for BGI to 
send a single engineer to most  jobs. And I thought that was why the repair couldnt be 
completed on Sunday.
-An appointment was made for Monday, which wasnt kept because of staff sickness.  I 
thought that was just unfortunate. I didnt think that it was unreasonable  for BGI to 
sometimes miss appointments  when  its engineers are unwell. 
-This appointment  was then rebooked for Thursday. When BGI wrote to Mrs J about the 
problems shed  experienced, it seemed to have suggested that the problem was fixed  
then. I didnt think it was. 
-The letter that BGI sent to Mrs J actually said that the problem  was fixed on 16 July, 
which was the Monday. I thought that may have been a typo,  and it was likely that BGI 
meant to say 19 July, the date of the rescheduled appointment. But Mrs J said that this 
fitter turned up alone, and wasnt able to do the repairs.  BGIs  internal notes say a further 
appointment was booked  for 20 July. So it seemed unlikely that repairs  were completed 
on either 16 or 19 July.
-I thought that the problem with Mrs Js electricity wasnt fully resolved until 20 July, as 
she said. 
Ref: DRN57586033-Unfortunately I didnt think this changed the overall position on this complaint. I still 
thought that what  BGI had paid Mrs J was the right amount to make  up for what  had 
gone wrong in this case. 
-Mrs J wasnt  entirely  without power.  I realised that it was inconvenient  not to have full 
power in a home, and particularly difficult not to have a fridge in hot weather. I also 
realised that Mrs J wasnt able to work from home as she had no internet. But I also had 
to bear in mind  that BGI had offered to pay for hotel accommodation  for Mrs J. 
-I knew that Mrs J turned that down when it was first offered, because she wanted to stay 
close to home, for understandable  reasons, and because she simply  didnt expect the 
problem to go on for so long.  But once  it was clear that the problem was going to take a 
little longer to resolve, perhaps on Monday, I thought that Mrs J couldve gone  back  to 
BGI to ask it to provide  hotel accommodation close to her home. I hadnt seen anything 
that suggested to me she did that. 
-I didnt doubt  that Mrs J had suffered real inconvenience, by staying in her home without 
fully working power. But BGI had made what I considered to be a reasonable 
contribution towards any extra costs  she faced. I didnt think  that I could fairly hold BGI 
solely responsible  for the inconvenience,  and ask it to pay more  compensation, when 
BGI did offer Mrs J alternative accommodation, and she refused.
-For those reasons, I didnt think that BGI had to do more than it had done.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied to my provisional decision.
my findings
Although neither side has offered anything  further in this case,  Ive still reconsidered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed  my mind. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5758603