K821x#15complaint
Mr M says S.D. Taylor  Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH)  lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says he couldnt  afford  to make the loan repayments  due to the other commitments he had. 
And he says LAH encouraged him to take other loans despite knowing this was the case.  He 
says this has affected his financial situation and his mental health. 
background
This complaint is about eight home collected  credit  loans  LAH provided to Mr M between 
October 2014 and September  2016.
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm  
(weeks)date ended
1 08/10/2014 £200.00 32 06/05/2015
2 21/01/2015 £100.00 32 05/08/2015
3 06/05/2015 £250.00 41 18/11/2015
4  05/08/2015  £150.00 23 18/11/2015
5 18/11/2015 £250.00 42 14/09/2016
6 18/11/2015 £250.00 42 14/09/2016
7 28/09/2016 £250.00 45 outstanding
8 28/09/2016 £250.00 45 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think  that LAH was wrong to 
approve loans  1 to 5. But he did think that LAH shouldnt have approved  loans 6 to 8 as the 
lending pattern itself was harmful. 
LAH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
the adjudication was cursory and confused home collected credit with short  term 
lending;
the lending  wasnt unsustainable and Mr M had a good repayment history;  
there wasnt any evidence that Mr M was persistently reliant  on home collected credit 
and relatively long term use of this product  is widespread
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  high cost lending, which includes home collected  credit - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
Ref: DRN54058532These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Mr M didnt  disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans  1 to 5. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Mr M had with LAH.  So 
they are something  I will take into account  when considering the other loans  he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 6 to 8 because I 
dont think that its necessary  to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LAHs  lending 
history with Mr M, with a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which LAH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so LAH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point LAH ought to have realised  Mr M was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr M had been indebted to LAH for over a year. So LAH ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr Ms indebtedness had become unsustainable;
Ref: DRN54058533Mr Ms first loan was for £250 and loan 6 was for £250. So Mr M wasnt  making any 
real inroads to the amount he owed LAH. And Loan  8 was taken out around two 
years after Mr Ms first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr M had paid large  amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LAH over an extended  period;
LAH says this pattern  of borrowing can be typical in this type of lending. But this 
doesnt mean its right. And I think this is a long time to use any form of high cost 
credit but particularly where  the consumer seems  unable to reduce  the outstanding 
amounts significantly  over time. I think this shows Mr M was struggling financially.
I think that Mr M lost out because LAH continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time;
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative;   
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 6 to 8 and LAH should put things  right.
putting things right  what LAH needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  6 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 8 should be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file.
If Mr M still owes LAH any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final two loans. 
Instead of the above, LAH should remove all the interest and charges applied  to the 
outstanding balance. LAH should then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr M 
went to towards the principal. But importantly, LAH needs to make sure that Mr M doesnt  
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr M hasnt repaid the principal  he borrowed LAH can deduct this from the 
remainder of the compensation. If, Mr M has already paid enough to repay the principal then 
any overpayment should be refunded  to him with 8% simple* interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if LAH no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must  give Mr 
M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN54058534my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5405853