K820x#14complaint
Mr M2 and Mrs T, on behalf of the estates of the late Mr M1 and the late Mrs M, say 
Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Provincial Building Society)  mis-sold  their parents a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr M1 and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 1982  around the time they were  applying for a 
mortgage. Neither the bank nor the representatives  can confirm where the sale took place. 
The policy was in Mr M1s sole name  and gave  him cover against accident  and sickness.  
They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M2 and Mrs T disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here. Santander cant provide a policy document so Ive considered the terms we typically  
see in these types of policies  when  making  my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr M1 and Mrs M that the PPI was optional  and they had 
to agree to take it out. Mrs T says that from discussions she had with her late father she 
doesnt believe he would have taken it out if he thought he had a choice. 
I cant know what was said during the sale or how the PPI was described to Mr M1 and 
Mrs M. So Ive thought carefully  about what Mrs T told us and looked at the available 
paperwork from the sale. On Mr M1 and Mrs Ms mortgage application they answered YES 
to the question Do you wish to take personal accident and sickness  cover? . There was 
nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led them  to believe it was mandatory. 
A separate  PPI application was then completed  and Mr M1 signed this. So on balance I think 
Santander made it clear  to Mr M1 and Mrs M that the PPI was optional  and they agreed to 
take it out for Mr M1.
I think Santander recommended the PPI so it had to make sure it was right for Mr M1. Based 
on his circumstances  at the time I think it was suitable. I say this because:
He was eligible  for the cover.  And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract 
he had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt 
have been affected  by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr M1 was entitled to some sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
work benefits and for up to 24 months  for each  successful  accident and sickness.  
Mrs T said they had savings worth six to 12 months  salary  but the PPI wouldve 
allowed her parents to use any savings  to cover other living costs whilst Mr M1 
Ref: DRN52493862wasnt working  or to keep them intact  for their future needs. They  were  borrowing a 
large sum over a long period secured against their home and given the serious 
consequences of missing mortgage  repayments,  I think the policy  would have been 
useful for them  if Mr M1 was sick or had an accident.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time
of the sale. Its possible  it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same
reasons I find the policy was suitable,  I dont think better information wouldve changed their
decision. I say this as Mr M1 doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of main
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr M1 and Mrs M paid on Mr M1s policy  and 
whether Santander  treated them unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr M1s policy was less than half of what they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr M1s commission  was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay back any of the commission Mr M1 and Mrs M paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M2 and Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5249386