K820x#14complaint
Miss A is unhappy that an amount paid to Nationwide Building Society to repay her 
mortgage wasnt enough, despite her being  told her mortgage was redeemed. She says this 
meant she cancelled  her direct debit  and then had to pay the remaining  £2,085 which took 
her into her overdraft.
background
Miss A had a mortgage with Nationwide.
On 10 December 2018 Miss A phoned Nationwide to say her mother was planning to pay 
some, or all, of her mortgage off. She asked what the current balance was and mentioned 
being tied in. The call handler confirmed there was an early repayment charge (ERC) and 
the most  Miss A could  pay off without incurring an ERC was £12,350.  Miss A was told the 
current balance was £80,899.75. Miss A asked  if she could be told what  the balance  would 
be in January as shed  have made  another payment by then, and the call handler  confirmed  
she couldnt do that.
On 21 January 2019 Miss A visited a branch. Theres a dispute about  what happened then 
with Miss A saying she was told by the manager that the same figure (as 10 December) was 
owing, whereas Nationwide says a full redemption statement was generated which showed 
the amount needed to redeem the mortgage that day was £82,975.60  (plus £5.04  daily 
interest for any day after that).
Miss As mother paid £80,899.75 to the mortgage  account on 23 January 2019.
As shed  not heard  anything Miss A visited a branch  on 26 January 2019  and was given a 
sheet upon which is handwritten PAID £80899.75 23/1/19 - FULL  REDEMPTION MONIES. 
Because of this Miss A says she cancelled her direct debit.
The direct debit was called for on 28 January  but failed as the instruction had been 
cancelled. A letter was sent to Miss A about this on 29 January. 
A further  letter was sent to Miss A on 11 February  which said For us to fully close your 
account, we now need a further payment of £2085.94 and a breakdown was included  to 
show how that figure had been calculated.
Miss A paid the remaining  amount  on 28 February,  having already raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to the complaint on 14 March, albeit Miss A says she didnt receive  
the reply.  In that letter Nationwide said it hadnt done anything  wrong.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but felt Nationwide  made a 
mistake when its branch  staff member gave Miss A the document which said full redemption  
monies. For that our investigator said compensation  should  be:
The January  2019 failed direct  debit charge should be refunded  if one was applied.
Any arrears charges incurred in January  2019  should be refunded, alongside any 
additional interest this has caused.
Any credit  markers  associated with the missed payment in January 2019  should be 
removed.
Ref: DRN54520382£50 compensation  should be paid for the inconvenience caused.
Miss A didnt accept  that and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Miss A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole  file, Ill keep my comments to what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because  Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
Ive listened very carefully to the call that took place on 10 December 2018. Ive included 
some parts of this call below. This isnt a transcript as Ive not included all the fillers (eg erm) 
and all the back and forth, its just some of the key parts:
Miss A: My mother  wants to pay some of my mortgage off
Its early  days  so well see what happens.
I need  an up to date over the phone how much  is left on my mortgage  cos 
you normally send it to me in January. Can you give me the total amount on 
my mortgage at the moment  please?
Nationwide: Its £80,899.75.
Miss A: Now the thing is it might not be all of it, it might be some  of it, it might be 
none of it, shes saying shes going to pay something  if not all of it.
I know  Ive locked myself into something,  that wont matter will it?
Nationwide: It could  mean that youd get an early  repayment charge if you pay more than 
youre allowed to. Youve got a five year fixed rate, youre allowed to pay 
£12,350 without  any fees.
Miss A: Oh dont worry, Im not worrying about the fees.
I dont know whats going to happen because its got to go via her solicitor 
anyway.
Miss A also asked if the call handler  could tell her how much would be left outstanding in 
January as she would  have  made another monthly  payment by then, and the call handler 
said that wasnt something she could provide.
So its clear from this call that Miss A was told the current balance  on that day, and that if 
she paid off more  than £12,350 shed  incur an ERC. That was all correct information.
Theres a dispute  about what happened when Miss A visited  a branch on 21 January. Miss A 
says I spoke to the Manager [name] about  my mother wanting to pay off my Mortgage. She 
Ref: DRN54520383then confirmed the same figure has [sic] owing. Nationwide has said a formal redemption 
figure was generated at that time which showed the amount needed to redeem the mortgage 
in full that day was £82,975.60 (with that amount going up by £5.04 a day).
Miss A had a repayment mortgage that was charged daily interest,  which means the 
outstanding balance on 11 December (so just one day later)  would have been different from 
the outstanding balance  she was told on 10 December.  So I find it incredibly unlikely  that a 
branch manager  in January (that is, a month  later and after Miss A had made a monthly 
payment) told Miss A that her outstanding balance was exactly  the same as it had been on 
10 December. And Miss A admitted on the phone on 10 December that she knew her 
balance in January would be different as she asked if the call handler could project what it 
would be (which she couldnt).
It also seems  unlikely  the branch manager would  have  gone to the trouble of generating a 
formal redemption figure on Nationwides system (which we know happened) and then give 
Miss A a completely unconnected figure.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Miss A is the one bringing the complaint 
against Nationwide,  to uphold the complaint  Miss As version needs to be more  likely than 
Nationwides version; not just as likely . Having  considered everything  I cant  say Miss As 
version is even just as likely. 
Miss As submissions  about what happened next have  been contradictory. She originally told 
us she gave the £80,899.75 figure to her mother who then paid it. But more recently shes  
said that her mother called up and was given  the same figure,  and questioned why her 
mother wasnt told the figure was wrong when she made the payment. Our investigator 
asked Miss A to let us know when that call was made so it could be looked into but Miss A 
didnt provide that information, just saying  she wanted an ombudsman to review  the whole 
complaint.
As I said above, to uphold  a complaint Miss As version needs to be more likely  and as her 
mother didnt have  the authority to discuss the account its unlikely she would have passed 
the security checks to be given any account specific information such  as a redemption  
figure. And even if she did manage  to pass the security checks, its unlikely yet another  staff 
member in January  would have given Miss As mother the outstanding balance as at 
10 December 2018 rather than giving her either the redemption figure for the day of the call, 
or at least  the current balance (without  the ERC) for that day. 
Miss As mother couldnt be told the amount she paid wasnt enough  to repay  the mortgage 
in full as its not her mortgage account,  so to do so would have been a breach of Miss As 
data protection  rights  under  General  Data Protection  Regulation.
Miss A has said there should be a new code of practice whereby Nationwide must inform its 
customers on receipt of any money  received as soon as possible. Were not the regulator so 
I cant order a business to make changes to its practices such  as introducing  a new code of 
practice.
Nationwide made  a mistake when  its staff member wrote PAID £80899.75  23/1/19 - FULL 
REDEMPTION MONIES on 26 January . Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a 
business makes a mistake, mistakes do happen. In this case it was simple human error. 
That amount  wasnt  enough to repay the mortgage in full and a sum remained outstanding. 
Ref: DRN54520384This meant the direct  debit needed  to be kept in force until the mortgage  debt was repaid in 
full.
I dont make any award for the overdraft  charges  and/or  interest Miss A incurred on her bank 
account when  she paid the £2,085.94 as I dont  think a mistake by Nationwide led to that 
sum being outstanding. It was always going to be payable. All Nationwide did wrong was in 
issuing the document to Miss A on 26 January which said PAID £80899.75 23/1/19 - FULL 
REDEMPTION MONIES which  Miss A says led to her cancelling the direct  debit.
Our investigator said Nationwide should  refund any failed direct debit fee and arrears fee, 
and correct Miss As credit file if any of those  are applicable. The investigator  also said 
Nationwide should  pay £50 compensation. It may be there  were  no fees incurred and her 
credit file wasnt impacted, in which case Nationwide simply needs to pay the £50 
compensation. Having looked at all the evidence  and keeping in mind the level of award 
we normally make  I consider that to be a fair and reasonable resolution.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Nationwide Building  Society  to:
Refund any failed  direct debit charge for January/February 2019, if applicable.
Refund any arrears charges incurred in January/February 2019,  if applicable.
Remove any credit markers associated with the missed payment in January/February 
2019, if applicable.
Pay £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5452038