K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about the claim settlement amount offered after her car was written off. 
The motor  insurance  policy  was provided  by U K Insurance Limited.
background
Mrs W made a claim after her car was written off. UKI made  an offer (just over £4,000) which 
Mrs W was unhappy with and so UKI asked a second engineer  to review the valuation and 
he agreed with the original amount  offered. Mrs W took up UKIs  offer of trying  out a 
sourcing company to find vehicles. But Mrs W didnt think  most of the cars were  suitable 
and ones that were  equivalent cost a lot more money. Mrs W said she didnt have enough in 
settlement to buy a replacement car, so she doesnt think  UKI has paid her the market 
value. Unhappy  with this Mrs W brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She noted  that a deduction  had been  made  by UKI to 
say the vehicle was only in fair condition.  She said this wasnt reasonable. She said UKI 
needed to remove  this deduction and pay the additional amount of approximately £80 to 
Mrs W. Overall though  our investigator checked all of the industry standard  guides  and the 
valuation placed  on the car by UKI was otherwise reasonable. Unhappy  with this Mrs W 
asked for her complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the key issue  for Mrs W is the point about  market value. Ive reviewed the 
values across all of the industry standard guides and in this case the amount offered is 
within the amounts  the guides  suggest.  So I dont think the market  value put forward by UKI 
is unreasonable. UKI also produced  evidence  of similar type cars and the values for sale 
were slightly  below (around £3,900), very similar to the value  given to Mrs W, and slightly  
above (around £4,400) the value offered for Mrs Ws car. I think  this backs up the UKI 
valuation is at the right amount for Mrs Ws car.
A further  point made by Mrs W was the actual condition  of her car. UKI said the car was 
fair but Mrs W confirmed  work  had been done  on the car. She said it was in immaculate 
condition. UKI hasnt detailed why the car was only in fair condition so its reasonable to ask 
UKI to remove the deduction it has made  and pay the amount (approximately £80) to Mrs W.
Mrs W said she ended up paying £4,800 for a suitable replacement. She said this was after 
haggling over the price  which  was much higher. I can understand her frustration but this 
doesnt change  what the industry  guides said the value for the car should be and that UKI 
used those guides. I think UKI has followed  standard industry  practice. Also the policy 
doesnt take account of travelling costs to collect a new car or car tax. So I think UKI made  a 
fair offer for Mrs Ws car.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN53231982repay the deduction it made based on the condition of the car of £79.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5323198