K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited turned down a claim he 
made on his pet insurance policy. 
Background
Mr H has a 12 month time limited  pet insurance policy with Red Sands. In June 2018 he 
made a claim on his policy because his dog was limping and the vet had recommended  
x-rays to investigate the cause. The vets notes  say the dog had been limping for the last 
one to two months.  However, in an email to Red Sands on 28 June Mr H said the dog 
started to limp while on a gentle  walk four to five months ago. As the position hadnt 
improved after a month he took him to the vet. Red Sands agreed to cover this claim. 
The vet prescribed medication for Mr Hs dog. However, in December Mr H was advised 
surgery would be possible which took place on 4 February. Mr H claimed for the costs of the 
surgery but Red Sands turned this down.  It said his policy provided cover for 365 days  from 
the date a condition is first noticed  by you or your vet. In this case  Mr H said his dog had 
been limping for four to five months prior to his email of 28 June 2018. So it thought the 
onset date was 28 January  2018 meaning cover for this condition  expired on 27 January 
2019.  
Our investigator didnt  agree. She thought the 365 day limit should run from when Mr H 
could reasonably have made a claim on his policy and that was when hed taken his dog to 
the vet in June.  The notes  from the time said his dog had only been limping for one to two 
months at that point.  And even  if the timeframe was more in line with what Mr H had 
referenced in his email she didnt think treatment would have been required at that point. 
She thought  the claim for surgery  costs should  be covered. 
Mr H agreed but Red Sands didnt. It said the policy provided cover for 365 days from when 
the condition was first noticed by you or your vet. In this case  as Mr H said signs  or 
symptoms were first noticed four to five months prior to his email of 28 June then the onset 
date would be 28 January and the subsequent claim for surgery wasnt covered. So I need  
to reach  a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at what the policy terms say. Although Red Sands told us the policy  provides 
cover from when the condition is first noticed  by you or your vet the terms its provided say 
its for 365 days from the date of occurrence . Date of occurrence  isnt defined in the policy 
but Red Sands appear to be interpreting this as from when  the condition  was first noticed by 
you or your vet. And in this case it says the date of occurrence  was 28 January  2018 
because thats  five months prior to Mr Hs email  of 28 June.   
Ref: DRN50546552However, I dont think thats a reasonable starting point. Mr H doesnt  say he noticed the 
limp five months ago; he says it was four to five months ago. Hes also said that when 
completing that email  he only guessed at how long his dog had been limping for. And the 
information in his email also conflicts with the other evidence.  The vets notes  (from June) 
say the problem had been ongoing for one to two months. And the email Mr H sent is 
contradictory in itself. He says he took his dog to the vet a month after noticing  the 
symptoms. But that isnt what happened; he didnt take his dog to the vet until June. Taking 
all of that into account I dont think Red Sands can fairly say the date of occurrence in this 
case was 28 January. 
In any case as Ive already said date of occurrence isnt defined in the policy terms Red 
Sands provided  to us. Red Sands has suggested this should  be from when a condition  was 
first noticed  by you or your vet. But I think it would be unfair for the 12 months to start 
where, for example, the vet had noted something  but said there  was nothing to worry about 
and no treatment was needed. I think the 12 months should start from when Mr H could 
reasonably have made a claim on his policy. 
So even if Red Sands are right to say the date of occurrence was 28 January (and for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think thats  the case) Ive not seen  anything  to show  there  was 
any claim for investigation or treatment Mr H could have made at that time. It appears he 
initially applied oil to the affected area as hed been  told by a friend that might  help. It was 
when that didnt resolve the problem he took his dog to the vet and further  investigation was 
recommended. The vets notes dont suggest  he should have brought  his dog in for 
investigation or treatment  any earlier. And given the nature of the problem (a limp) I dont 
think it was unreasonable that Mr H initially  waited  to see if this resolved  itself without the 
need for further investigation or treatment by a vet. 
Looking at all of the evidence I dont think the way Red Sands  has interpreted the email  
Mr H sent in June  is reasonable. And even  if his dogs limp started earlier than the one to 
two months which  the vets notes refer to I think the earliest possible date he could 
reasonably have sought investigation or treatment for this would have been the start of 
March. The claim he subsequently  made  for the surgery  in February 2019 is within 365 days  
of that. So I think  Red Sands  should pay this claim subject to the remaining policy  limit and 
any applicable  excess. If Mr H has already  paid the vet himself  it will also need to pay 
interest on the amount it pays him.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited will 
need to pay Mr Hs February 2019  claim subject to the remaining policy  limit and any 
applicable excess. If Mr H has already  paid the vet for this treatment Red Sands will need to 
pay 8% simple interest a year on the amount it pays Mr H from the date he made that 
payment until the date of settlement . 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
James Park
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN50546553If Red Sands  thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr H it should tell him how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr H a certificate  showing  this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5054655