K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. acted unfairly and unreasonably by declining his claim under a travel insurance policy. 
He wants his claim paid.
background
Mr W had an annual travel insurance  policy with Mapfre taken out in May 2018. He was due 
to travel abroad, but cancelled  his trip as he needed  surgery (to deal with cancer).  Mr W said 
that his cancer  was diagnosed after the policy was taken out while he was being tested for 
something else; neither  he nor his treating doctors were aware of the cancer when the tests  
were carried  out. 
Mr Ws claim for the cancellation of his trip was declined  by Mapfre as it said Mr W knew 
something was wrong with his health  when  he bought the policy. It noted that the policy 
excluded medical  problems a consumer had before  the policy was in place. Mapfre  said 
Mr W had been referred  for tests  in May before  he took out the policy and hadnt  declared 
this or his abnormal test results. It stated  that if Mr W had declared his health issue  as 
required, it wouldnt have  offered him cover, and offered to refund the premium. Mapfre 
apologised for the delay  in making its decision; it paid £100 compensation for this issue.
Mr W complained  to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
She said that Mr W hadnt declared  that he was undergoing  tests  or the symptoms from 
which he was suffering when he took out the policy. The investigator noted  that the policy 
specifically excluded undiagnosed conditions for which tests were  being carried out (as well 
as conditions which were  known about at the time of taking out the policy), and the previous 
policy didnt cover trips outside of Europe. 
The investigator also noted that if Mr W had declared the position  correctly when he took out 
the policy, he wouldnt have been allowed to take it out, so the fair and reasonable position 
was to refund the premium paid. She said Mapfre had acted fairly by declining the claim and 
£100 compensation was fair and reasonable for the delays in dealing with the claim.  
Mr W disagreed.  He said that his doctor said he had no symptom of cancer  when the policy 
was taken out and Mapfre was acting  unfairly.  The investigator explained that the key point 
was that Mr W was undergoing tests  and hadnt  declared this to Mapfre.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Theres  no dispute  
that Mr Ws previous policy didnt cover the cancelled trip as it was outside Europe, or that 
Mr W didnt know  about his cancer when he booked the trip. 
The key point is what Mr W knew when he took out the worldwide annual policy in May 
2018. This policy excludes claims relating  to undeclared medical  conditions  of which the 
consumer was aware prior to taking out the policy, but critically also excludes undiagnosed 
conditions relating to tests  being  carried out at the time. Insurers  are able to set out the 
terms of insurance policies, provided  they are clearly set out to consumers,  which in Mr Ws 
case I think they were.
Ref: DRN50840532Mr Ws doctor has said that Mr W didnt suffer from the symptoms which led to the diagnosis 
of cancer when he booked the trip, but hes also said Mr W did know  about  the symptoms  by 
the time he took out the 2018 policy. And the evidence shows  that Mr W did know about the 
tests he was undergoing and awaiting (including  the abnormal  results  of some of the tests)  
when he took out the 2018 policy. It was these  tests (and the underlying symptoms) that led 
to the diagnosis of cancer.  So I think Mapfre is acting fairly in saying  that the claim should be 
declined due to the terms and conditions  of the policy  as it was the cancer that caused  the 
cancellation of the trip.
Under the relevant law, I have to think about whether Mr W was reckless in not telling 
Mapfre about the tests.  I think  he was as he shouldve  declared the full picture of which  he 
was aware when taking out the policy. And Mapfre has shown  if Mr W had told it about the 
situation, it wouldnt have  offered him the policy at all. In all the circumstances, I think the 
offer to refund the premium is fair and reasonable.
From what  Ive seen, it does seem that Mapfre did delay making a decision. Money  never 
truly compensates for trouble and upset, but as Mr W is more  upset  about  the rejection itself,  
I think £100 compensation  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr W whether to accept  
the offer from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  S.A. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084053