K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service  in connection 
with his home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr H had a policy that covered  plumbing  and drainage including  any dripping tap. The policy 
was in the name of a home assistance company. 
Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to Aviva I include the 
home assistance company and its engineer insofar as I hold Aviva  responsible  for their 
actions.
Mr H unfortunately had a drip from a kitchen tap. He called  Aviva  for help. He complained 
that  in fixing the tap  Aviva caused  water damage to a kitchen cupboard.  
In a final response dated 16 January  2019,  Aviva said it didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. He 
brought his complaint to us asking for Aviva to pay to repair the cupboard  and to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
there was no strong evidence to suggest  the damage was caused by the engineer. He said 
that water  damage wouldnt  be an instant  thing. It would take time to occur.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Before removing the faulty  tap the contractor stopped the main water  supply.
When the water came  to a stop from the tap, the contractor  disconnected  the flexi 
pipe which caused a semi flood to the kitchen cupboard. 
From  the beginning of his complaint,  he said he was not happy with the standard of 
work carried out by the engineer. 
Later, after a couple  of weeks  he looked  at the cupboard and realised it was 
damaged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Mr H has said, Avivas engineer turned off the water supply before he 
disconnected the flexible  pipe. I accept that some  water escaped from the pipe. Mr H has 
provided a couple of photographs showing some water on the floor.
As the water supply  was off, it was only a limited escape of the water already in the pipe. 
From what  Mr H has said, the engineer  wiped  up the water  using tea towels and paper 
towels. I dont find that an inappropriate response  to such a mishap.  
Ref: DRN58780182I find that Mr H complained straight away about damage.  The engineer reported to the home 
assistance company  as follows:
customer  refused to sign worksheet advising we have damaged  his unit. No 
damage present.  We have taken pictures to confirm. Customer  states we have 
damaged his electrics  and have caused  bubbling to his work unit under the sink. We 
have pictures showing  how the work place was left
The engineers photographs include one of the inside of the cupboard  under the sink. From 
that, I cant see any remaining water.
On 17 December 2018 Mr H sent Aviva  some photographs of damage inside a cupboard. 
Ive looked at them carefully  and I dont consider that they show  water damage.
So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct  Aviva to pay compensation for the cupboard  or 
for inconvenience and distress.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5878018