K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited hasnt  complied with her 
individual voluntary arrangement and about  the way that its dealt with her debt.
background
Miss H opened an account  with Shop  Direct in September 2011 and she used it to buy some  
items later that month. Miss H entered into an individual voluntary arrangement  in November 
2011. Shop  Direct issued a default notice to Miss H in March  2013 and defaulted her 
account in April 2013. Shop Direct  removed  the default when Miss Hs individual  voluntary 
arrangement ended - but it then recorded  a further default on her credit file. 
Miss H complained to Shop Direct and it said that the default had been caused  by a 
systemic error  so it upheld her complaint, removed the default and sent her a cheque for 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. But Miss H wasnt satisfied with its 
response so she complained to this service. She says that her account with Shop Direct was 
included in her individual  voluntary arrangement  but Shop Direct didnt comply with the court  
order, hounded  her throughout her individual  voluntary arrangement  and then put a default  
notice on her credit file (which was removed but then reinstated). 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Shop 
Direct was entitled  to reject the individual  voluntary  arrangement  proposal  and there was no 
conclusive evidence to suggest that it actually  agreed to be part of the arrangement.  And he 
said that Shop Directs offer of £100  compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He accepted that it had made an error but it wasnt  made aware of it until 
November 2018  at which point arrangements were made to delete the information from 
Miss Hs credit file.
Miss H has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says that her 
account with Shop Direct was included  in her individual voluntary arrangement. Shop Direct 
says that Miss Hs account wasnt included in the individual voluntary arrangement  proposal  
but was added to the completion notice  by the supervisor of the arrangement  - but with a 
zero balance because  it hadnt been  being included within the original proposal. And it says 
that the default is no longer showing on Miss Hs credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H opened an account  with Shop  Direct in September 2011 and she used it to buy some  
items. Miss H then entered  into an individual voluntary arrangement. But her account  with 
Shop Direct wasnt included in her proposal for an individual  voluntary arrangement so it 
wasnt contacted  about that arrangement and didnt agree to it.
Miss H didnt make any payments to her account  and her account went  into arrears. Shop 
Directs account notes show that Miss H did contact it about her individual voluntary 
arrangement in December 2012 but that she was told that she would need to provide the 
reference number  for the arrangement. Theres no evidence to show that she provided it with 
any other information about  her individual voluntary arrangement at that time.
Ref: DRN57084202Shop Direct sent her a default notice in March 2013 and defaulted her account in April 2013. 
And it says that it then wasnt proactively  pursuing  Miss H for the debt and that it would have 
made no further contact  with Miss H. Miss Hs individual  voluntary arrangement completed in 
October 2017 and Shop  Direct was included as an unsecured  creditor   but with a zero 
balance. 
Miss H then contacted  Shop Direct and it removed the default from her credit file. But it says 
that due to a systemic error  the default  was added back onto her credit file. When Miss H 
complained to it about that default, it upheld her complaint, removed the default and sent her 
a cheque for £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shed been 
caused.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Miss Hs account with Shop 
Direct was included in her individual voluntary arrangement in November 2011. So I dont 
consider that it was wrong for Shop Direct  to default Miss Hs account in April 2013. The 
account was then included in the completion  notice  for the arrangement in October 2017. 
And Shop Direct removed  the default when it was asked to do so by Miss H. I consider that 
to have been fair and reasonable at that time.
Shop Direct then accepts that the default was added back to Miss Hs credit  file in error. It 
has arranged for the default to be removed from her credit  file and has paid her £100 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes  been caused. I consider that 
to be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances. I sympathise with Miss H for the emotional 
and other  difficulties that she says that shes been  caused. But Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that Shop Direct  has hounded Miss H about  her account. 
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to pay her any further 
compensation -or to take any other  action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5708420