K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that AXA Insurance Plc is now asking her to provide bank statements to 
support a travel insurance claim she made in 2015. She says that AXA didnt ask for 
statements in 2015 and that they arent  necessary as she has already provided  receipts.
background
In 2019, Miss H contacted AXA about a travel insurance claim she had first made in 2015. 
AXA asked for bank statements to validate the claim. But Miss H thinks  that is unfair.  She 
says that AXA didnt ask for bank statements in 2015 and she has already supplied proof of 
purchase. She added  that it was impossible  to obtain bank statements from that time. 
Our investigator said that we shouldnt look at this complaint as we had already  considered 
this complaint. I reviewed  the complaint and disagreed. We hadnt considered  AXAs actions 
in 2019 in respect of the claim. So I thought we should look at the complaint.
But after considering the merits of the complaint, I didnt  propose  to uphold  it. I said that in 
2015 AXA said bank  statements were  one of the things that it might  ask for to validate  the 
claim. The fact that it listed  a number of things on the list would not prevent it asking for 
something else to validate  the claim.   
Mr H on behalf of Miss H, responded to say that their understanding  was that bank 
statements werent required unless  other  proof of purchase wasnt  available.  If that was 
made clearer they would have  kept the bank statements. Although banks may have the 
statements it is difficult to work out which account  they used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the policy  allowed  AXA to ask for relevant information  and it was fair for it to 
ask Miss H for reasonable evidence to support her claim. Weve already considered these 
points in the complaint she made  in 2015. And I cant see any reason to reach  a different 
conclusion here.
In July 2015 AXA sent Miss H a letter in respect of her claim. It sets out a list of documents  
required for [AXA] to assess your claim.  That includes  original receipts or alternative proof 
of ownership for the items you are claiming,  such as bank statements
I consider that AXA set out that it may require bank statements. But looking at what  the 
policy says and the letter AXA sent Miss H in 2015, I dont consider it means  that AXA is 
obliged to pay the claim on receipt of one of the items listed.  What  is reasonable will depend 
on the circumstances of the case. I consider it is reasonable for AXA to ask for bank 
statements here. 
While I appreciate the difficulty it may cause Miss H, it appears that this information is still 
available to her  usually banks will retain  this information for six years.  It is up to her and Mr 
H whether to obtain the bank statements or not. But in the circumstances of this case I dont 
think it was unfair for AXA to ask for it.
Ref: DRN51838602my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183860