K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with her claim under a travel  insurance 
policy. She wants matters put right.
background
Ms N had a travel insurance  policy with Mapfre,  taken out a few days  before she was due to 
travel abroad. She travelled to the airport and checked in to catch her flight to depart on 
holiday. Due to vomiting,  diarrhoea  and dizziness, Ms N said that she was too unwell to 
board. Ms N flew out the next day and said she then needed medical  treatment for an ear 
infection and extended her trip. Ms N made  a claim, but she told Mapfre  that she missed the 
flight as shed had to use the toilet and the security  queue was longer than normal. Ms N 
also had tried to cancel the trip due to feeling  unwell only a few days  earlier.
Mapfre refused to pay Ms Ns claim. It thought that the reason shed given  for not catching  
her flight  was quite unusual and that it wasnt able to rely on the medical evidence provided  
by her as it had been altered and contradicted  itself.  Mapfre said that it would only 
reconsider if Ms N allowed it to access her medical records  and contact her GP directly. It 
was also unhappy  that Ms N was refusing to explain why she had repeatedly  changed her 
travel arrangements  or answer its questions.
Ms N complained to us. The investigators view was that Mapfres initial  requests for 
information were fair and reasonable  and Ms N hadnt complied  fully. But he noted that it had 
gone on to ask for more information  and hadnt  explained why. The investigator thought that 
Mapfres concerns about the medical  evidence  from Ms N were fair and reasonable as it had 
been altered.  He said Mapfre should set out what information needed from Ms N was 
outstanding from its letter of 6 December 2017  and explain  why it needed the extra 
information or stop asking for it (with the exception of the explanation about the alterations to 
the medical evidence). The investigator  also said Ms N needed to explain  why the medical  
evidence had been changed  by way of a letter from her GP. The complaint  wasnt  upheld 
though some recommendations were made to Mapfre. It confirmed that the information  still 
outstanding from Ms N was the booking invoice for the planned return  flight,  the invoice for 
the new flights back and the previous insurance policy certificate.
Ms N said that the medical evidence was changed to reflect the correct dates and she did 
get updated evidence from her GP later on. Mapfre disagreed with the investigator and 
pointed out that Ms N kept saying she didnt  remember the answers to questions it had 
asked and it believed  that she wasnt co-operating.  Mapfre set out in detail the contradictions  
in the answers  it had from Ms N, that there  was no evidence corroborating independently 
what Ms N was claiming, and that she hadnt provided satisfactory answers  to many points. 
It noted that there should be medical records or the doctor could contact it directly to explain 
why there  arent, and that Ms N hadnt  provided  evidence she now was claiming  that she 
had provided. The investigator didnt change  his view.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN53516932The relevant rules  and industry guidelines  say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. But its also for Ms N 
to prove  she has a valid claim. Having looked  at everything available  to me, I think  Mapfre 
has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Ms Ns claims. Ms N failed  to deal with all 
the initial requests  for information and her responses triggered  the further requests for 
information. Im satisfied that Mapfres extra  questions are fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and I understand  why its concerned about the circumstances of her claim. 
The circumstances of her claim appear, on the face of it, quite unusual and Ms N has given 
Mapfre conflicting information. So I dont think it is unreasonable  for Mapfre to say that Ms N 
hasnt provided  acceptable evidence to support  her claims.
Ms N accepts that she changed  the initial medical  evidence, but even the updated evidence  
doesnt support  her position. Her GP didnt  treat her for the conditions and theres nothing 
from a treating doctor abroad.  Its also questionable whether  Ms N missed  her flight due to 
her health,  given her comments  to Mapfre about  the toilet  and security queue, or if she 
suffered the additional losses while abroad.
Until Ms N provides the information and evidence requested by Mapfre in full, I dont  think I 
can say its refusal to accept her claim is unfair  or unreasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Ms N provided new evidence, but didnt provide the 
evidence necessary for Mapfre to progress her claim, such as evidence from the doctor who 
treated her abroad or further evidence that showed why she missed her flight.  Mapfre didnt 
respond.
Ive considered what Ms N has said in response to my provisional view,  and the further 
evidence shes sent to this service.  But I remain of the view set out in my provisional  
decision and think that my conclusions are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case. The further evidence Ms N has sent doesnt deal with Mapfres  questions, and it is 
for her to prove her claim  is valid. Mapfres questions are fair and relevant, and largely  arise  
from the unusual  circumstances set out by Ms N herself.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or reject my decision before 
11 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5351693