K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that TFS Loans  Limited gave her a loan that wasnt  affordable.  She says 
they didnt perform proper  checks before accepting her application. And she wants them  to 
refund her the interest  she paid on the loan.
background
In May 2011  Mrs C applied to TFS for a loan of £5,000  through  an intermediary. TFS 
approved the application,  and the loan was taken out for a period of 60 months with an 
interest rate of 24%. The monthly repayments were  £219.82. The loan was repaid in full in 
June 2016.
In August  2018  Mrs C complained to TFS that the loan theyd given her was unaffordable. 
She said they would  have  realised this if they had performed proper checks  before accepting  
her application.  And she thinks they were wrong  to allow her to take it out. She wants  them  
to refund her the interest shes  paid on the loan, plus 8% interest.  
TFS dont think  they did anything wrong.  They said they approved her application based on 
the information she provided. They  also explained  that they checked her credit report at the 
time and were satisfied  the loan was affordable. Whilst they saw Mrs C had some debts, 
shed said she intended to use the loan they provided her with to repay these. Theyve also 
pointed out that Mrs C repaid the loan in line with the agreement. Nor did she tell them at 
any point during the term of the loan that she was in financial difficulty. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. Although the complaint was brought  outside of 
the normal time limits within which we can look at complaints, TFS have consented to us 
considering it.
Our adjudicator wasnt convinced that TFS had done everything  they should  have to check  
the loan was affordable. But based  on the information Mrs C had provided  to them, and the 
fact shed repaid  the loan without any apparent problems, they didnt  think  the loan was 
unaffordable.
Mrs C doesnt think this is a fair outcome to her complaint. She thinks  TFS should have 
checked the information she gave  them more thoroughly. And shes explained that it was 
very stressful to meet  the loan repayments,  and she is in default  on other loans as a result. 
So the case has been referred  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mrs C will be disappointed,  but I 
dont think it would be fair to ask TFS to refund her the interest she paid on her loan. Ill 
explain why.
Before approving a loan firms are expected  to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to see if the lending is affordable for the applicant. Theres  no set list of checks  that 
have to be made. What  is reasonable and proportionate depends amongst other  things on; 
the size of the loan, the cost of the repayments,  the applicants lending history, and what the 
business already  knew  about the applicant. 
Ref: DRN54012452I need to consider whether the checks TFS did were  proportionate for Mrs Cs loan 
application, and whether  they showed the loan was affordable.  If I dont find that they did 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks,  I need consider whether, if they had, they 
would have concluded the loan was unaffordable.
TFS have provided us with a copy of the application  form Mrs C submitted when she applied 
for the loan. I can see that they asked  her questions about her income. And she told them  
her monthly income totalled £1,982.40 made  up of her salary, tax credits and child benefit  
payments. She also said she had been  with her current  employer for 5 years. TFS also 
asked for proof of income, and using her net salary calculated her income  to be £1331.34 
per month.
Mrs Cs explained she was on maternity leave  when she applied for the loan and was 
receiving statutory maternity  pay, not the income TFS based their assessment on. And she 
thinks TFS should have carried out checks to confirm the information she provided  them  with 
was correct. TFS did carry out checks.  Theyve shown us the payslips and bank statement 
Mrs C submitted, and it was not evident from these that she was receiving statutory 
maternity pay. So I dont  think TFS could reasonably have been  expected  to know  this.  
Id also expect a loan applicant to provide information that was, to their knowledge, accurate 
when answering  questions from the lender. I can see that Mrs C signed the application to 
confirm that the information she had given was true and accurate. So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable that TFS relied on the income  information Mrs C provided them  with.
TFS have also given us a copy  of the credit report they obtained for Mrs C when she applied 
for the loan. I can see this scored her as very  high risk and advised  that the majority of 
applicants with this score would have difficulty repaying the loan if an application was 
accepted. It also found  she had a very high level of indebtedness. Mrs C argues her credit 
file at the time would  also have shown she had defaulted on other  debts. But I agree with our 
adjudicator, I cant see evidence of any defaults to suggest that relationships with other 
lenders had broken down because she couldnt maintain her payments.
Mrs C told TFS in her application that her past financial troubles were  down to an ex-partner.  
And that she had since been keeping her accounts  up to date. The outstanding debt 
showing on the report totalled significantly less than the loan amount Mrs C was requesting. 
And she had written a letter confirming she would  use this new loan to consolidate her 
existing debts and given what her commitments  were at the time, the loan wouldve provided 
enough money for her to do that. So I think its reasonable  that, despite  a poor credit report, 
they felt Mrs C would be able to manage  their loan, if it was used for the intended purposes.  
TFS say they used  the information from this credit report, in addition to asking about  Mrs Cs 
mortgage repayments, to calculate her disposable  income for everyday expenses. I agree 
with our adjudicator,  Im not convinced TFS would have had a complete picture of Mrs Cs 
expenditure and situation  without asking more questions about her bills and any other 
monthly outgoings. Though I note they would have been able to see direct  debits and 
standing orders from her bank statement and what she owed other lenders from her credit 
file. So I need  consider  whether, if they had made a more thorough check of Mrs Cs 
expenditure, TFS would have thought the loan was unaffordable.  
Ref: DRN54012453Mrs C has told us she applied for other  loans  around the same time she applied for this one. 
She says she was accepted for a number of them. I wouldnt reasonably expect  TFS to know 
about credit  she might  apply for after they gave  her a loan, if she hadnt told them  that she 
was going to do this. But Ive looked at the credit report TFS had for Mrs C, and I can see 
several credit checks were done for personal  loan applications in the weeks  before she 
applied to them. However these appear to have been for smaller short-term payday  loans. 
So I dont  think its unreasonable that despite  this TFS accepted  her application.  Mrs C had 
said she would consolidate  her debts, and this suggested she wouldnt  need assistance from 
payday loans  going forward, so her application  here was in line with what TFS understood 
were her intentions. Mrs C hasnt suggested  she had any other significant expenditure TFS 
should have been aware of at the time they gave her the loan. So I dont think  its likely that, 
even if TFS asked more questions, it wouldve been alerted to anything  that wouldve  
changed its decision to lend here.
TFS reviewed Mrs Cs credit file and included the repayments this showed she was making 
on her existing debts when assessing her expenditure. And were satisfied that even whilst 
paying these this left her with sufficient disposable  income to meet their monthly repayments 
in addition to what they refer to as everyday expenses. They thought  she was going to have 
a higher disposable income than the one they had used for their affordability  check,  as shed 
said she would pay off her existing debts with their loan.  So I think, on balance,  it is likely 
they would  still have concluded  she could  meet  the repayments, even if they had asked 
more questions about her bills and other monthly outgoings. 
I can see from her account statement that Mrs C repaid the loan on time and in full. And with 
the exception  of two late payments, one in 2012 and one in 2013, the loan appears to have  
been repaid without difficulty via a monthly direct debit. Our adjudicator  felt this indicated the 
loan was affordable.  Mrs C disagrees.  Shes  told us she was in financial difficulty  but 
prioritised meeting these repayments as she did not want her loan guarantor to find out she 
was struggling. Shes explained she missed payments on other  loans as a result.  
Mrs Cs provided  us with a copy of her up-to-date  credit file. I can see she is now in default 
on a number of loans and mail orders, and I appreciate this must be very stressful. But these 
have all defaulted after she took out her loan with TFS. And the majority  of them  were  also 
taken out after she received her loan from TFS. When  considering  whether this loan was 
affordable, I have to consider what TFS knew, or ought to have  known, at the time of the 
loan application.  So whilst I am sympathetic to her subsequent  difficulties, these dont 
change my view the loan was affordable when she took it out based on what  shed told TFS 
her income was.
Im not aware that Mrs C contacted TFS during the term of loan to make  them  aware she 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. And I dont think  TFS would have had any reason to 
suspect she was in financial difficulty based on how she was managing her loan repayments 
to them.  So it also wouldnt be fair for me to say they should have done anything differently 
in the way they managed  her loan. 
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think there is evidence to suggest  the loan was 
unaffordable at the time it was approved. So I dont think  it would  be fair to ask to TFS to 
refund Mrs C the interest she paid. And as Mrs C didnt make TFS aware when she later 
began experiencing financial difficulties, I cant say they treated her unfairly during the term 
of the loan either.
Ref: DRN54012454my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TFS Loans  Limited  for the 
reasons outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C on behalf  of 
Company E to accept or reject my decision before 12 March  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5401245