K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a joint mortgage in 1998. At the same time they took out a PPI policy 
in Mr Ls name only. This policy covered him for accident and sickness only.  It did not cover  
him if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L 
disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs L but I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say that they only signed for the PPI as without it they had the impression they 
wouldnt have had a chance of getting the mortgage approved. So the first thing Ive thought 
about is whether  they would have been given an option to buy the insurance.  To help me 
decide Ive looked at the available documents from the time of the sale. I can see the 
mortgage offer makes  reference to PPI and I can also see that they chose to cover  Mr L 
only, not Mrs L. In addition, Mr L didnt choose the unemployment cover.  That makes me 
think they thought about  the cover  options  available to suit their needs at the time. And 
theres nothing in the paperwork  to make me think they had to have the PPI in order to take 
out the cover. I can also see that they have been sent various renewal  notices and insurance 
schedules setting out their cover  and the cost of the PPI. And I think  the PPI would have 
appeared on their mortgage statements. So if they had any questions they could have raised  
them with Nationwide. I havent seen evidence that they have done  so.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs L were  given a choice and that they chose the insurance knowing 
they could refuse it - even if its understandable if theyve forgotten  that now after so many  
years. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr and Mrs L have  told me  that they were  pressured into 
buying the PPI. But pressure is a subjective  matter. What someone feels is pressure another  
may not. It could be that the Nationwide  representative told them it would be a good idea to 
take out the PPI. But thats different to saying  they had to take it out. And although I dont 
doubt that Mr and Mrs L have given me their honest recollection, Ive also had to think  that 
this sale took place around 20 years  ago. Theres nothing in the paperwork or any detail 
about what theyve  told me from which I can safely say they were pressured  into buying the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN50437082I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI. I havent seen any paperwork which makes 
me think a tailored recommendation for the cover was made.  That meant it didnt need to 
make sure it was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. But it still had to give them clear enough 
information so that they could decide  whether or not they wanted the cover.
Its possible that not all the information  was given to Mr and Mrs L about the policy.  The 
question for me now is whether Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently if theyd been  
given all of the relevant  information. To help me decide what they would have done, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought  about  what  they told 
us about their personal circumstances at the time.  
Mr L (the person  who was covered) was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the main  limitations and exclusions of the policy which  might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim - for example, because of a pre-existing medical  
condition. And whilst I can see that Mr L was self-employed he didnt take out the cover  for 
unemployment. So he wouldnt have been caught  by any policy terms in relation to his 
employment.
As a self-employed person Mr L wouldnt have received any sick pay. But Mr and Mrs L have 
told us they had savings of around three to six months of their pay. Although Nationwide 
didnt need to check their circumstances  as it was a non-advised sale,  Ive still thought about 
their circumstances. This PPI would  have paid out in addition to any savings they had. If 
Mr L couldnt work their income would have reduced  and as Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  was 
secured over their home there was a significant risk if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments. So they could have used  their savings for any other essential expenditure if 
things went wrong. So I think the PPI would have still been useful at what  would have no 
doubt been a stressful time if Mr L couldnt work.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable.
Ive thought about everything theyve told me about  having to move out of rented 
accommodation and secure the mortgage.  But these points dont change my conclusion. As 
Ive explained  I think its likely they chose the cover. And although its possible that 
Nationwide could have  given them more information, I still think  the PPI could have been 
useful if something went wrong.  
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs L lost out because of anything Nationwide did wrong  and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Ref: DRN50437083Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5043708