K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) are pursuing him for a debt 
he doesnt owe.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here. 
Mr H has been represented by a third party  in this complaint but for ease  I will refer to Mr H 
throughout my decision.
Link say that in 2016 they purchased a debt Mr H had with a bank. Theyve subsequently 
pursued him for payment  but he says hes unaware of the debt; wasnt  sent a notice of 
assignment when  this debt was sold and therefore  doesnt know  how much he owes,  if 
anything. Hes asked  Link to provide a copy of the agreement under which the debt is due 
and also a statement  of the account but they havent been able to do so.
Hes admitted that he did have an account  with the business who sold the debt to Link and 
that he has had financial problems in the past that led to him entering into a debt 
management plan.  But he cant be sure this is that debt as he thought hed paid it off.
Mr H says that the relevant legislation (the Consumer Credit  Act (1974)) means  that Link 
cant enforce the debt until it has provided  this information. Link agree that the debt isnt 
currently enforceable but dont think this affects  Mr Hs liability for it. Its explained that, as 
Mr H had been providing payments to them through his debt management  company;  this 
suggested he accepted liability for the account.
So it didnt think it needed to take any further action. It did eventually  provide a copy of the 
notice of assignment but explained that it wasnt  currently able to provide a copy of the 
agreement or a statement of the account  as the original owner of the debt hadnt been  able 
to find them.
So Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He explained that it was his debt management 
company who had provided  payments  to Link and not him. He said that he was in a difficult 
situation as, in the absence of the credit agreement and a statement of account, it was not 
possible to decide  whether the rights of the agreement had been correctly  allocated to Link,  
or how much was due and whether  interest rates had been  applied correctly. He explained 
he was in a state  of limbo waiting for Link to provide the most basic of information and in the 
meantime the debt was having a negative impact on his credit file.
Our investigator took a look at the evidence. She explained that it was for the courts to 
decide whether  a debt was enforceable, although  she noted  that Link didnt seem to dispute  
that the debt currently couldnt be enforced. She said that what she could do was provide her 
view as to whether Link were being fair in pursuing Mr H for the debt.
She couldnt find any information  about  where payments to the account  in dispute had come  
from i.e. bank transfers or card payments. So she wasnt able to compare these with Mr Hs 
accounts to show  it was him who was paying the debt. She noted that the business had 
supplied the terms  and conditions of the account but as these didnt mention Mr H she 
Ref: DRN55615372couldnt conclude  he had an account or owed anything. And she didnt think it was fair for 
Link to pursue someone for a debt they couldnt  demonstrate was theirs.  
So she suggested  that Link write-off any amount they thought  Mr H owed them;  remove  any 
detrimental information they may have added to his credit file; and pay Mr H £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced when being pursued by them for a debt they 
had no proof  he owed.
But Link disagreed with the investigator.  It said that whilst it agreed the account could not 
currently be enforced, that didnt mean  Mr H wasnt still liable for the debt. And it said his 
debt management  companys willingness to make contributions towards the debt 
demonstrated he accepted liability. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I know it will disappoint Mr H but I currently disagree with the investigators  view. Please let 
me explain why.
The appropriate forum  to decide  technical  arguments as to whether a credit agreement  is 
enforceable is not the Financial Ombudsman  Service, but a court. But, as the investigator  
has explained, we are able to decide  whether Link is being fair in pursuing Mr H for the debt.
Mr H made  a request  to Link under section 77/78 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974). This 
legislation says that the creditor (in this case Link)  needs to supply the debtor  (in this case 
Mr H) a copy  of the executed agreement.
But as Link has not been able to provide  this, the legislation says that until they can, the debt 
isnt enforceable.  Link hasnt  been able to provide this information as the original lender cant 
locate it. So they accept that the debt cant currently be enforced.
They argue that Mr H is still potentially liable so they should  be allowed to continue to hold 
the debt against him. But there  are implications for Mr H as his credit file may be damaged 
by the debt.
is Link being fair in pursuing Mr H for the debt?
I think theres enough evidence here to suggest  on a balance of probabilities that the debt in 
question is Mr Hs. I say that because:
Mr H has been making payments to Link for this debt through  his debt management  
plan. I think its unlikely  the managers of this plan would make payments if there was 
any concern the account wasnt Mr Hs
Mr H seems  to accept that he had an account  with the company who originally provided 
the credit,  so its likely  this is the same account. And if it isnt, Mr H would know because 
hed be able to provide  evidence that the account  was paid-off or was still receiving 
contributions
Its clear Mr H has had problems with debt in the past and this has led to him entering 
into a debt management plan. So its feasible that a debt management company could 
have been engaged  in recovering a debt against him.
Ref: DRN55615373I asked for further information from the DMP. They explained that Mr H told them about 
this debt when  he first contacted them in 2007 and he advised them what the balance of 
the account was. They  explained they received a notice, on 10 October 2016,  which  
explained this debt had been  transferred  to Link. They were able to tell us the balance 
and payments they made to the debt.
Mr H says theres no information about  how the debt the DMP were paying had accrued and 
that its apparent  from the DMPs response  that the debt first accrued  five or six years before 
he talked to them. He thinks its likely  that, given the amount of time hes made payments 
for, the debt would have disappeared by now.
But Im required to decide if Link are currently being  fair in pursuing Mr H for the debt and I 
think, given the evidence  Ive detailed above, they are.
my findings
I invited both Link and Mr H to respond  but neither did so my provisional decision has not 
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5561537