K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out in 2010 alongside a loan. The policy  
covered Mr B for life and accident or sickness. Mr B says Black  Horse Limited mis-sold him 
the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of insurance on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr B says he was not given any information  about  the policy and he didnt even know  it was 
added to his account. But Ive also considered that this policy  was sold to him around 
9 years ago  which is also something I have to keep in mind when deciding what  is more 
likely to have happened. 
Black Horse  says that Mr Bs credit application  was already approved when it contacted  him 
by phone to discuss  the insurance.  Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs credit agreement  and I can 
see that the cover was not included on this  so this supports what Black  Horse has said.  It 
has also provided a copy of a call script which it says the sales  person wouldve been  
instructed to follow for all telephone sales around the time, and a copy  of a demands and 
needs statement  which it says was completed during the sale of the insurance. And Ive not 
seen any reason to think these documents wouldnt have  been used for the sale of the policy 
to Mr B so Ive relied  on this evidence to reach my decision. Ive looked  at the call script and 
Ive seen that it instructed the sales person to present the policy  as optional  and obtain 
Mr Bs consent to add the cover to his account.  And the demands and needs statement 
suggests that Mr B agreed to Black  Horses recommendation to take out the policy.  
So taking everything into account I think Black Horse made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have to 
take out the policy and that he chose to take it  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this now.
Mr B says Black Horse  didnt recommend  the policy to him, but Black  Horse says it did. As 
things stand, there isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so 
isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Black  Horse recommended  the policy,  I think  it 
wouldve been a suitable recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As 
a result,  Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Black  Horse.
As an advised sale Black Horse had to check that the policy was right for Mr B  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the cover and he seems to have had a need  
for the cover. Mr B says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer at the time. But the 
demands and needs  statement completed  at the point of sale records that Mr B didnt  have 
any employee benefits in place or any other means  that would help him to make  his 
repayments throughout the term of the loan. But even if I accept that Mr B may have had 
some sick pay from his employer, the policy wouldve  paid out on top of these means   
Ref: DRN50537062allowing him to use his sick pay for other  expenses. And the life cover  wouldve paid off his 
outstanding balance in the event that he died.  
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr B about the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the policy would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Black Horse doesnt  have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the policy to Mr B.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the policy to Mr B because:  
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
insurance premium) - so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because Black  Horse didnt 
tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the insurance  premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The policy wasnt mis-sold   so Black Horse  Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the policy to Mr B.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the insurance premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5053706