K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan H&T provided to Mr S in July 2017.  The  loan 
was for £1,000  and repayable over 19 months. The monthly  repayments  were for £117.52. 
Mr Ss loan is currently outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given 
because the information H&T had gathered about Mr S showed he was having problems 
managing his money as he had other outstanding  short-term loans when  he was given the 
first loan. 
H&T didnt respond to our adjudicators view, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN55473462Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint from loan 1. Ill explain  why.
I think H&T ought to have realised that Mr S wouldnt  have been  able to make his 
repayments for his loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see H&T did 
income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr S before it lent to him. And I can see that H&T 
has provided its findings from those checks,  including the reports from the credit checks, to 
us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mr S was able to repay the loan in a sustainable  
manner.  The credit check reports show that Mr S already had a large number of active 
accounts at the time. This information was conflicting with what  Mr S had told H&T about his 
regular outgoings.  I think this ought to have prompted H&T to verify the details  Mr S had 
given it  such as asking for copies of his bank  statements or asking to see his payslips 
and/or bills. 
I have looked  at Mr Ss bank statements  and I can see he was borrowing from eight other 
short-term lenders at the same time. These  were  increasing his outgoings  significantly.  I 
think this was a clear indication that Mr S was in a debt cycle and relying upon further 
borrowing to repay  current borrowing. 
putting things right  what Harvey & Thompson  Limited needs  to do
If H&T has sold the outstanding debt H&T should buy this back if H&T is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If H&T cant buy the debt back,  then H&T should  liaise  with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
A) H&T should add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees 
and charges on the loan without an outstanding balance, not including  anything  H&T has 
already refunded.
B) H&T should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) H&T should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made  by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding  loan.  If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then 
H&T should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. H&T should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
Ref: DRN55473463D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then H&T should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. H&T shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made  up of principal H&T has already written-off.
E) H&T should remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to 
the loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Harvey & Thompson Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Harvey & Thompson Limited must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Harvey & Thompson Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5547346