K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when repairing 
his boiler under a home emergency policy. He wants Amtrust to pay to replace the boiler or 
pay the value  of the boiler.
background
Mr A had a home emergency policy with Amtrust. His boiler suffered a malfunction (which  
Mr A described as minor  but meant that he had no heating). Amtrust sent an engineer to 
repair it, and Mr A said that the first engineer didnt properly deal with the issue. On the 
second visit, the engineer fixed the dial but said other parts were needed. On the third visit, 
the engineer replaced more parts, but ultimately Mr A said that the repair  was unsuccessful 
and the engineer said that the boiler needed  to be replaced. Mr A was unhappy about the 
service provided - at times he had been  left without hot water or heating, and he was called 
at work at times to discuss the boiler.  He felt that Amtrusts engineers had ruined his boiler.
Mr A complained to Amtrust. It said the first engineer diagnosed a switch needed 
replacement and had to order the part. Mr A then called the next day to say another  switch 
had broken, but it was explained if the first switch led to the emergency  being resolved, the 
second switch  wouldnt fall under the policy to be resolved.  Amtrust  then confirmed that at 
the second visit, the engineer replaced  the switch  and found another  part had broken. It said 
that the engineer later returned  (after Mr A refused the offer of a visit earlier) and discovered 
rust on a part which  caused a leak in his view. By this point, the cost limit of the policy  had 
been exceeded and Mr A was told hed have to pay for the work to continue.  Amtrust  thought  
a domino effect on an older boiler  had occurred  this is the term for finding more issues  
while fitting new parts. But the amount of work was limited by the policy and Mr A had 
received all that he was entitled to in the view of Amtrust and it was his choice not to pay for 
the further work required. 
Mr A complained to us and sent a photo  of the boiler. The investigators view was that there 
was no evidence that the engineer was at fault or damaged the boiler. He said that Mr A 
exceeded the cap on costs under the policy, and that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr A disagreed. He said that the investigator ignored the photo he sent of the boiler  and that 
it was fine, apart from the switch before the engineer  attended. He wanted an ombudsmans  
decision. The investigator said that the photo  alone  wasnt enough evidence to find the 
engineer was at fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly  that the engineer is to blame for his boiler not working,  but 
he hasnt provided  any expert independent  evidence supporting that view.  The photo alone  
isnt enough; all it shows is that at some  point the boiler worked.  This isnt disputed.  Parts  
can fail at any time and its clear  that the boiler  had been  in place for a long time. Theres no 
evidence of regular  servicing, but in any event as Amtrust  has explained, its not uncommon  
to find more issues when  replacing one part.
Mr As policy  covered repair work on his boiler suffering a sudden  unexpected event which  
clearly required immediate remedial  action up to the total costs  cap of £1,000.  Mr A had the 
Ref: DRN51058632benefit of several  visits from an engineer with parts being replaced and exceeded the costs  
cap. In my view, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Amtrust to refuse to pay for work to be 
carried out beyond  the costs cap as this is set out in the terms and conditions  of the policy  
which Mr A accepted. I also dont think that its unfair or unreasonable to call a customer  to 
discuss their broken boiler.
Mr A mentioned that he thought he shouldve  been  offered alternative accommodation. 
But in a call with Amtrust, Mr A declined  to stay in a hotel  initially  and wanted to be paid to 
stay at a friends  home. When it was explained this wasnt possible, Mr A was given  
information about how to claim for any hotel costs. I dont think this is unfair or unreasonable  
 alternative accommodation costs are the costs  of staying in a hotel.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
10 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5105863