K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that Trinity Lane  Insurance Company Ltd didnt pay all of his claim 
under his motor  policy when  his car was stolen.
background
Mr Is car was stolen sometime between 4am and 8am one morning. He made  a claim to 
Trinity Lane who investigated his claim.
Mr Is policy  required  him to keep the car in his garage between 10pm and 6pm every night. 
Mr I said he had come home at around 3.30am and went  to bed not long after and when he 
got up the next morning  to go the gym at 8am he found his house  had been  broken into, his 
keys taken along with his car. He admits  he hadnt parked his car in his garage.
Trinity Lane ultimately paid his claim less his excess and the 15% discount it gave him 
because that he agreed to park his car in his garage overnight as the policy stipulated. 
Mr I didnt think this was fair. He also complained he was out of pocket for car hire charges. 
He was of the view that Trinity  Lane had treated him very unfairly, so he brought  his 
complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt  think Trinity Lane  had done  anything wrong. Mr I disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is to access whether  Trinity Lane did anything wrong in 
accordance with the policy  terms and conditions of the policy  that Mr I chose to buy.
Its clear that Mr I parked  his car on his drive when he returned home at around 3.30am  in 
the morning. Its also clear his policy said he had to park his car in his garage  between the 
hours of 10pm and 6am. I dont consider that Mr I didnt know  he had to park his car in his 
garage either, as the evidence shows he was aware  of the garage clause. This is clear on 
the call recording and also its detailed clearly  in his policy  schedule.  
Because of this garage clause, Trinity Lane  was able to offer him a discount  of 15% on the 
price of his premium. So if Mr I had instead  simply wanted to keep his car on his drive, his 
premium would have  cost him 15% more.
When an insurer, such as Trinity Lane  set the premium price, its based  on several risk 
factors, which Trinity Lane identified,  and its actuaries then analyse. All insurers are entitled 
to decide what  risks they want to cover and what they dont want  to cover.  Theyre also 
entitled to decide what price to charge for those  risks. Its very clear  here Mr I benefitted from 
a lower premium amount  because he agreed  to park his car in his garage. Therefore, I dont 
consider Trinity Lane did anything  wrong in deducting 15% off the market value payment for 
his car following Mr Is claim.
Ref: DRN53579712Because Mr Is car was stolen and I believe never found, Mr Is policy didnt  provide  any 
cover for a hire car. This isnt unusual in motor policies across the board. This is because  
given the car is stolen,  the policyholder is then entitled to the market  value of the car in order 
to buy another  car. Therefore, there  is nothing  in Mr Is policy  requiring Trinity Lane  to cover 
the cost of Mr Is hire car and consequently  it has done nothing  wrong in not offering to cover 
those costs for Mr I.
Mr I didnt believe Trinity Lanes customer service  to him was fair. He believed  it delayed and 
caused him upset  and distress in its dealings with him. Trinity Lane was of the view that 
Mr Is garage  was actually too small to fit his car properly  so there was some delay caused  
by it investigating  this. I consider these concerns were genuine though  given the dimensions 
of the garage  and dimensions of the model  of Mr Is car. I consider some  of its approach with 
Mr I could have been better but as it has paid his claim less the 15% for it not being in a 
garage, I dont consider it needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
So whilst I appreciate  Mr I will be disappointed with my decision, for these reasons its my 
final decision  that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5357971