K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs O aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mrs O applied for her 
card and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork. Mrs Os application 
form had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  has been signed for. 
The form has also been signed separately  in agreement with the selections  that were  made  
on it. With this in mind I think FICL made  it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mrs O chose 
to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs O so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs O got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay and some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Os sick pay, and for longer.  The PPI would also have  allowed  Mrs O to keep  
her savings in place to be used  towards any other essential expenses  she may have  had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Os circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN51912372Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5191237