K820x#14complaint
Mr M, who brings this complaint with the consent  of his former business  partner Ms A, has 
complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (the bank) is wrongly seeking repayment 
from him of the debt of the former partnership. 
background
The former partnership  (the partnership)  was a professional partnership established in 
Scotland. Mr M and Ms A were the only two partners.  The partnership  had signed  an 
agreement with the bank whereby the bank granted overdraft facilities to the partnership, 
which the partnership  used. Its this debt that the bank is seeking to recover from Mr M. He 
says the bank has no right to do so.
In early 2015 the partners signed an agreement whereby the business, assets and liabilities 
of the partnership were  transferred to a new company in which  the partners (Mr M and Ms A) 
were the sole shareholders.  Not long after this transfer (in mid-2016),  Mr M withdrew from 
the business, and later still (2017) the new company was wound up. 
Mr Ms basic argument is that the new company  became  solely responsible for the overdraft, 
and the banks course of conduct showed the bank  accepted this. So the bank cant  now 
pursue Mr M for the debt.
Our investigator didnt  agree. His main  conclusions were:
His reading of the overdraft agreement was that the partners would remain liable for 
the overdraft regardless  of whether the partnership  changed its legal status or 
dissolved.
The partners were  jointly and severally liable for the outstanding overdraft. There  
werent any specific terms in the available documentation to suggest otherwise. 
The partnership wasnt dissolved in the traditional sense due to the transfer.  
However, it fell within section 38 of the Partnership Act 1890.  This section stated that 
the rights  and obligations of the partners  continued in certain circumstances,  such  as 
completing transactions begun  but unfinished  at the time of the dissolution.
The partnership deed wasnt available  to check if the scenario was covered. On 
balance and without  express provision contained  in the agreement dealing with this 
issue, the partners  remained liable under the agreement. This was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. His main points in summary were:
The partnership wasnt dissolved, so section 38 of the Partnership Act didnt apply. 
The partnership was sold to a third party company. But in any case, it wasnt  
necessary, in terms of the law, for the partners  obligations  to continue. 
Under the common law, the rule in Claytons  Case would apply. Under this, the new 
companys payments  into the overdraft account  would correspondingly reduce the 
partners liability, if any, under the overdraft.
In terms of joint and several liability - under  the law of Scotland,  the partnership was 
a legal entity in its own right, so in the first instance the bank should pursue the 
partnership, not the partners. The partnership  had in turn been bought  by the new 
company, so it was the new company, and now its administrators, that were  
responsible for the overdraft.
Ref: DRN50435662The investigator had misunderstood how the burden of proof should apply, and he 
shouldnt have  construed the legal agreements in favour of the bank, where a 
potentially relevant provision was missing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman service  takes account  of the law, but ultimately  we make our decisions,  as 
Ive just said, according to what we think is fair and reasonable.  
As a financial ombudsman, I have no power to determine Mr Ms legal rights, unless he 
accepts a final decision of mine. So I have no power or right to make Mr M pay the bank. 
What I do have the power and duty to do is to decide if I think  its fair and reasonable that the 
bank should stop seeking repayment of the overdraft debt from Mr M, as hes asked.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but like the investigator Ive answered this question  in the 
negative. My reasons are:
Regardless of partnership law, Mr M and his then business partner freely signed  a 
legal agreement with the bank under which they individually agreed  by which I 
mean not just on behalf of the partnership but also for themselves as individual  
partners  that they would  be jointly and severally  liable for repayment  of the 
overdraft. This is clear from the text of the overdraft  agreement  (clause 11).  
When recently writing to the contact for his former business  partner  Ms A, Mr M 
wrote: Ms A as a former equity partner in the firm is jointly  and severally liable for 
[the overdraft].   
Nothing has happened since Mr M signed  the overdraft agreement which in my view 
would make it unfair for the bank  to seek repayment of the debt, including as it exists 
today, from Mr M.
Ive seen no evidence  that the bank agreed Mr M would no longer be liable for the 
debt.
For example, Ive seen no legal agreement whereby the bank agreed to release  Mr M 
from the debt or one whereby the bank agreed  to substitute another party  for Mr M as 
being responsible for the debt.
There was a potential  mechanism in clause 11 of the overdraft agreement  for cases 
where a partner leaves the partnership:  if a partner leaves [and the partnership 
has advised the bank of that immediately], the Bank may stop operations  on any 
overdrawn account and open  a new account  on which no borrowing will be 
permitted. Ive seen no evidence the mechanism was implemented, or that the 
power it confers on the bank  was used. 
I find it inherently unlikely that the bank would release Mr M from the debt, expressly 
or impliedly, without  substituting another party or another  type of security for Mr Ms 
repayment covenant. 
Its trite law that the burden of a debt cant be transferred by the debtor without the 
consent of the creditor. I havent seen any evidence the bank consented  to the 
transfer away from Mr M of the obligation  to repay the overdraft.
It wasnt the partnership that was sold. The partnership transferred its business,  
assets and liabilities to the new company.
Ref: DRN50435663In his complaint  form Mr M wrote:  I was a partner in a [professional]  partnership 
based in [named city]. The partnership is now dissolved
Based on what Ive found, I cant conclude the bank isnt entitled to pursue the debt. I 
havent seen enough evidence to show the debt is no longer owed by the partners, and 
certainly not enough for me to reach the conclusion that it would  be fair for me to order the 
bank not to seek repayment from Mr M.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5043566