K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to investigate  what had happened 
when she was the victim of fraud.
background
Miss C received an email  on 8 February  2018  saying  that Santander had received a request 
to change her online  log in details for her account.  She contacted it and said she didnt use 
online banking. It sent her new security information  as its telephone and online systems are 
linked. On 14 February 2018  Santander  contacted Miss C saying that there  had been 
unusual activity on her account. And she confirmed that she hadnt made any payment 
requests. A payment  of £500 from her account  made online was refunded  by Santander.  
Our adjudicator issued  different opinions on this complaint and at one time had 
recommended £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience  be paid to Miss C. But he 
said that hed then concluded that he wouldnt be recommending that the complaint be 
upheld. He said that no security system is infallible and the person responsible  for the fraud 
caused the distress  to Miss C. Somehow that person had found  out her details and may 
have been able to intercept her post.  He said it isnt the role of this service to find out who 
carried out the fraud and that would  be a matter for the relevant authorities  to consider.
Miss C didnt agree and said that she was certain  she didnt give her details to anyone else.  
And only Santander knew that further online banking credentials  were being sent out to her. 
She suspected a member of its staff had been involved and so is unhappy at the suggestion 
by Santander  that she should  take more care of her details.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C hasnt lost money from her bank account. But I dont doubt she has been caused 
considerable distress  as the victim  of fraud.  And shes  described in her complaint  form 
suffering sleepless  nights and worrying about  how this happened. The person responsible  
for that distress is the person who tried to take her money. I understand though why she 
wants us to consider  Santanders role and how this could have happened.
Ive listened to a recording  of the call Miss C had with Santander on 8 February 2018. The 
person she spoke told her that the email  of that day was a scam  or an error  and seemed  
odd. And Miss C was reassured that there was nothing to worry about. Its now clear  that the 
email was in fact genuine and there  had been attempts already to access her account. So I 
take the view that an opportunity was missed  to alert Miss C to what was happening. But I 
also agree  with our adjudicator though that no security system is perfect. Someone  had 
already tried to access Miss Cs account  with some of her personal details. And that person 
was then it seems able to intercept in some  way the additional  security information sent out. 
Santander detected this access  and refunded  Miss C as soon as it had spoken to her about 
the payments  attempted.
Miss C suspects the involvement  of staff at Santander.  In its final response  to her it said that 
an internal breach was considered during  its investigation.  As our adjudicator has said we 
Ref: DRN58849042dont investigate who carried  out the fraud and Ive no evidence  to think  that Santander 
missed anything else or failed to follow its procedures.
I arranged for the current investigator on this case to contact Santander  and explain my 
thoughts and that in my view a goodwill gesture of £100 was appropriate. It agreed to pay 
£100 to Miss C on that basis. I know that our investigator asked Miss C if shed accept  this 
as a resolution to her complaint.  She said that she didnt agree that this was enough  for the 
reasons shed already given but that shed accept  £300 and that this reflected  her time 
dealing with this.
Im afraid although I considered again what shes said I dont think  any more than £100 is 
warranted here. I appreciate shes had different opinions about  this from our service.  But the 
amount now offered in my view fairly marks the missed opportunity by Santander. And I so I 
wont be asking it do anything more  than pay this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc to pay    
Miss C £100 as its now offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5884904