K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that her mortgage and related insurance policies were mis-sold  by 
Santander UK Plc. She asks that it makes a fair assessment of what  she now owes.  Miss R 
is represented by a family member, who Ill refer to as Mrs R.
background
Miss R took out a 25 year interest only mortgage with Santander (then Abbey National) in 
1991. The mortgage was recommended by a broker who also recommended Miss R take 
out an endowment  policy  to repay  the mortgage  at the end of the term.
Mrs R raised number  of concerns about the sale of the mortgage  and how its been 
administered. Weve  written to Miss R about  what parts of her complaint were  able to look 
into. We said were able to look into her concerns  about the mortgage  balance not 
decreasing as shed expected after February 2012. This includes Miss Rs concerns about 
transactions on the mortgage account after February  2012  and whether the correct  interest 
rate was applied after February  2012. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying it didnt 
appear Santander had done anything wrong.
Mrs R responded on Miss Rs behalf. She said she didnt trust Santander and was unhappy 
with how it had dealt  with Miss Rs account. She said she thought  the interest rate was 
incorrect.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Santander confirmed  that it applied its standard variable rate to Miss Rs mortgage account 
since 2012, in line with the terms of the mortgage. I havent seen anything  to suggest that 
Santander made an error. 
Santander provided statements showing transactions on the mortgage account. Having 
looked at the statements,  I cant see that there  were  errors in the way Santander applied 
credits and debits to Miss Rs account  since February 2012.
Mrs R queried  some  transactions  on the mortgage account. Our adjudicator  asked 
Santander about these. It provided the following explanations, which I think are reasonable:
Date Transaction Explanation
31 October 2012 Account Adjustment  - 
£1.33 (Credit).This was an adjustment refunding interest 
for 29 February 2012.
14 July 2017 Field visit fee - £40.55 
(Debit).The mortgage statement shows  this fee 
was refunded on 28 July 2017. 
18 July 2017 Capital repayment  - 
£1,759.98 (Credit)Overpayments made between January and 
July 2017 were applied to the account.
Ref: DRN57567732Where a customer takes out a repayment  mortgage  the monthly payments are calculated  to 
include both interest  and capital repayments  so that, provided payments are maintained, the 
mortgage is repaid  by the end of its term.
Thats not the case here. Miss R took out a mortgage on an interest only basis.  The monthly 
payments are only interest  payments. They dont include any capital repayments. So her 
mortgage balance  didnt decrease in the same  way as a repayment  mortgage. While Miss R 
made some overpayments,  there  remained an unpaid balance  when the mortgage  term 
ended in 2016.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Santander  hasnt  administered Miss Rs account 
correctly or that the balance it says she owes is incorrect. 
Santander says Miss R should contact its interest only maturities team  to discuss the options 
available to her or contact  an independent  financial adviser. I would urge her to do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5756773