K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Zurich includes their agents.
Mr S is represented by a relative who has made  submissions on his behalf to both Zurich 
and our service throughout his complaint. For ease, I will only refer to Mr S in this decision.  
But reference to Mr S includes all the submissions made  on his behalf  by his representative.
background
Mr S had car insurance wit Zurich. On 9 May 2018,  Mr S damaged his car after he 
accidentally hit a wall. He claimed on his policy.
Zurich got an engineer  to assess the car. The estimated cost of repairing the car was over 
£4,000. But as Zurich said the pre-accident market value of the car was £1,250,  they said it 
was uneconomical to repair it. So, Zurich  declared  the car a total loss and offered to pay    
Mr S its pre-accident  market value after deducting the £150 policy  excess. A total loss is also 
commonly referred to as a write off and that is the terminology Mr S has used throughout. 
But I will use total  loss  in this decision.  
While Mr S agreed that the valuation placed  on his car by Zurich was reasonable, he didnt 
agree that paying him that amount to settle his claim was equally reasonable. He said that 
Zurich had an obligation to put him back into the position he would have been in had his car 
not been damaged. He said Zurich should have paid him the full repair cost of over £4,000  
so that he could get his car repaired. But as that didnt  happen  and Mr S bought a 
replacement car, he said Zurich should  pay him the cost of the replacement  car he bought 
(minus the £1,250 value of the damaged car). Mr S said his replacement car cost him 
£18,000. He also said Zurich should pay him £4,000 to compensate  him for the loss of use 
of his car for a period of two months. He said a hire car for two months cost £4,000.
Zurich didnt agree with Mr S. They said they were  only required to pay him the pre-accident 
market value of the car and that is what they offered to do. They  also said he wasnt  entitled 
to a hire car under his policy. Mr S didn't think that was fair so he brought  his complaint to 
us. One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt that Zurich  had acted  reasonably and in 
line with the policy.  As Mr S didnt agree with our investigator, his complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr S, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr S has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Zurich have dealt with Mr S in a fair and reasonable way.
The terms of the policy Mr S had said Zurich: will cover your car against loss or damage. 
And Mr Ss car suffered  damage. The policy further said: For claims under Sections 4 and 5 
of Part A [which includes damage  to the insured car] of the policy,  we will at our option either  
Ref: DRN52119592repair your car or make a cash settlement, which will not be more than your cars market 
value at the time of the loss or damage. So, the policy gave Zurich the discretion to either 
repair the car or pay its pre-accident market value.
The above  policy  terms are fairly  standard within the motor insurance industry and I think  
theyre reasonable. If the damage  to Mr Ss car was say a few hundred pounds, I think  
Zurich would have  had it repaired.  But the estimated cost of repairing it was more than three 
times the value of the car. That is why it was declared a total loss because  it was 
uneconomical to repair  it.
While the policy doesnt say Zurich will put Mr S in the position he was before the accident, 
that was indeed the intention policy. And in correspondence that is what  Zurich told Mr S 
they would  do. But what is meant by that is Zurich will pay Mr S the pre-accident  market 
value of the car to enable him to buy a similar  car to replace his damaged one. That is 
normal insurance industry practice and is reasonable. If a similar car could be bought  for the 
settlement amount it makes little economic sense to expect Zurich to pay more  than three  
times the value to repair the damaged car. And Ive seen that in their research before  
offering the settlement to Mr S, Zurich found  a number of cars advertised  for sale that were 
similar to Mr Ss. I understand that Mr S has owned his car for a very long time;  that he 
looked after it well; that he felt it had no hidden defects that another  car he is unfamiliar with 
might have; and that felt assured by his car. And he said he bought a car similar  to his for 
around £18,000 that gave him the confidence  he had in his damaged car. But I dont agree 
its reasonable to expect  Zurich to pay for that, especially  as Mr S accepted  that the pre-
accident market  value placed on his car by Zurich was reasonable.
Were Zurich  to pay Mr S the cost of his replacement car, Mr Ss position  would be bettered 
substantially. Thats because his replacement car is worth substantially more than his 
damaged car. And that would go against the purpose of the policy, that is to put Mr S into the 
position he would have been had his car not been  damaged. I therefore think  Zurich have 
dealt with the claim reasonably and acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Finally, the policy  only said a courtesy  car would be provided if Mr Ss car was being 
repaired by one of their authorised garages. And as that was never the case  because  Mr Ss 
car wasnt repaired, Mr S wasnt  entitled  to a courtesy car. So, Zurich were reasonable in 
refusing to compensate Mr S for his hire car costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5211959