K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  
One), offered following a complaint about a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
taken out by Mrs G in 2000. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs told us she is unhappy with the level of commission charged  on her PPI policy, 
which she says she was not aware of. And because  of this, Mrs G feels this service  should 
be able to look into a previous complaint she made to us about  the mis-sale of the policy. 
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Mrs G paid on her PPI premiums. I am unable to consider how the policy was sold as Mrs G 
previously brought  this complaint to us and our adjudicator was of the opinion this complaint 
wasnt brought in time. This was explained to Mrs G when we wrote to her in July 2015.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Capital One said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs G paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mrs G for the time she was out of pocket. 
Mrs G has said she should receive all the commission and profit share back because  she 
wasnt told that Capital  One would receive any commission. But Capital One has done what 
the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Gs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Capital  One should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. 
But I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been  made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Capital One to do anything more.   
Ref: DRN54759412my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Capital One (Europe) plc has correctly worked out what it 
needs to pay Mrs G. 
Capital One (Europe) plc should update  and pay its offer to Mrs G if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475941