K820x#14complaint
Mr A says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a flexi-loan. Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr A applied for his loan and PPI policy.  
This loan worked  by allowing  Mr A an agreed loan limit which he could  draw  on whenever  he 
wanted. He would likely have agreed a standard monthly repayment  for the loan regardless 
of how much was outstanding on it. 
It appears on 18 December 2000,  a few days after taking out his flexi-loan Mr A applied to 
amend the terms  of the existing flexi-loan  agreement. His credit  limit was now £2000  not the 
original £1000 he had asked for and his monthly  repayment for the loan was now £80 with 
the PPI costing an additional  8.38% or less than £9.00 per £100  of the monthly  repayment  
amount. The policy  didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party with 30 days 
notice without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr A for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr As monthly loan repayment for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  HSBCs records show Mr A was self-employed as a sole trader. In his PPIQ to 
this service Mr A said he was employed. In one questionnaire he said he had less than three 
months sick pay but in another he said he had no sick pay. He told us he had no savings 
and he said he was entitled to redundancy pay and death in service  of twice  his salary. Mr A 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in November 2003. 
Mr As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr As representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr As representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr A about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN59920612The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr A and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN59920613The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr As case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr A sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN59920614-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr A know  he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr A has told us that the 
representative made him feel that if he didnt take the PPI, it would refuse the loan and he 
took it out as a result of being pressured  and rushed.
Given how long ago this sale took place HSBC  doesnt have all the paperwork available from 
the time.  That isnt surprising  or unusual as businesses arent required to keep records  
indefinitely. But HSBC  has provided an example of what  Mr A likely  completed at the time 
and I think that more likely represented  what he saw and signed when taking out his loan 
and the PPI. 
On the application form theres  a part entitled repayment authority which states  [Mr A] 
authorised you to pay from my Account . (b) the monthly credit  protection insurance 
(including insurance premium tax) at a rate of 8.38 pence per £1 of the standard monthly 
repayment except  on final closure of the Account. Mr A would have had to sign and date the 
form.
And Mr A would have  also had to complete the separate  creditor  protection  declaration 
confirming hed decided  to take out the PPI. This form would have also required Mr As 
signature and it would likely have been  dated.
I also think the PPI would have appeared on his statements so he could have  questioned  it 
with HSBC if he had any queries sooner.  
Mr A says he was pressured  into taking  out the cover  but this is very difficult to prove  and is 
subjective. What  one person might feel is pressure another person doesnt feel the same  
way. And Mr A hasnt  given us any detail about  why he felt that way. It could be that the 
representative said it was a good  idea to take it out but thats not the same as saying Mr A 
had to have it to get his loan.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr A knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC is unable to say whether it provided advice  during the sale, but it has assumed it was 
a branch sale and it was advised. Mr A says he was advised in a meeting. So I think  thats  
fair to look at this as if it were an advised  sale.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr A with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN59920615I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr A. It seems Mr A cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr As 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr A would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest HSBC considered whether Mr A had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr A given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr A, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr A met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr A had a need for the policy   Mr A told us he was employed and had less than 
three months sick pay, death  in service  and redundancy pay. In another  
questionnaire he said he had no sick pay. And HSBCs records  show  that at the time 
of the sale Mr A was self-employed. I think its most likely that Mr A was self-
employed at the time even if its understandable if Mr A cant  remember  precisely 
what his employment  situation was given  this sale happened so long ago. As a self-
employed person  he would not have received any sick pay if he was unable  to work 
due to illness, or have  any redundancy pay and he didnt have any savings  he could 
fall back on. The policy would  have helped Mr A manage the consequences were he 
unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr A.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr A. There  was 
nothing about  Mr As employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr A sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr A was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr A was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr A would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN59920616But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr A agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr A Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr A. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr A all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr As representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mr A? To what extent  did Mr A suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr A. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr A suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr A would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr A, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr A has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Ref: DRN59920617Mr A would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr A says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr A had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr As circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr A knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear HSBC told him the exact premium  at the point Mr A applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, hed been  told that the cost was calculated  at 8.38% of his 
monthly repayment which Mr A would  have likely  seen on the paperwork he signed, and it 
seems likely Mr A would have been  told the cost before the policy  started. He also paid for 
the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with his 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible he might  have  raised that with HSBC  at the 
time or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr A would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr A would  get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr As expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr A thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr A knew  about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy;  In addition , any medical 
condition or disease  for which Mr A received treatment, advice or were  referred  for 
investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurs within 12 
months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr A 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN59920618I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr A pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr A from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr As circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr A didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions.  I have also considered his employment situation. As I explained above, 
there is some discrepancy between  what Mr A said in his PPIQ  to this service  about being 
employed. HSBCs records from the time show Mr A was self-employed and as this 
paperwork is from around the time of the sale, I think  more  likely that Mr A was self-
employed. I have no doubt at all that Mr A has told us what  he honestly  remembers. But this 
sale happened nearly 20 years ago, so its understandable if Mr A doesnt  exactly  remember 
all the details. Although Mr A was self-employed when the PPI was taken out, it wouldnt 
have been any harder for him to make  a claim if he became unemployed than someone  who 
was permanently employed. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been 
caught by any of the significant exclusions. So, I still think  he had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr A needed  to be prevented from doing any work as certified by 
a doctor. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to 
make a claim. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr A would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr A made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr A 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN59920619presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr A compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr A in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5992061