K820x#14complaint
Mr W1 and Mr W2 complain about what  happened to bonds  in their names, held by 
Santander UK Plc. Mrs W was the trustee on those accounts, and she brings this complaint. 
background
Mrs W said that she took out two childrens  bonds using money that had been inherited.  She 
told us that she took out two bonds at £10,000  each,  one on 4 May 2003 and one on 5 
December 2003.  She said that the bonds had never been paid out. They  each had a closing 
balance on 9 January 2008  of £12,266.67. Mrs W was concerned that the bonds were  due to 
be paid when the bank that shed opened  the accounts with was taken over by Santander.  
Mrs W said she wanted this money  to be paid to Mr W1 and Mr W2, as was originally  
envisaged. 
Mrs W sent us some  documentation for these bonds. They seemed to suggest  that the 
bonds had both been opened on the same  day, 5 December 2003, and had consecutive 
bond numbers.
Santander said that it couldnt  tell us very much about the bonds now. It knew  that they both 
had this closing  balance, and were both closed on 9 January 2008. It said that the funds 
were then paid into the branch managers account at a branch  local to Mrs W. Unfortunately,  
because this had happened so long ago, Santander said it couldnt  say exactly  what  had 
happened after that. But it said that there were processes  in place to make sure that money 
wasnt just left in those branch manager accounts. The branch would be chased very quickly  
to make sure the money was going to be paid out. 
Santander said that the money wasnt in the branch managers account now, and it wasnt 
there by 2009,  which was as far back as Santander  could look. Santander thought  it was 
most likely that Mrs W had taken this money in the form of a cheque or cheques.
Our adjudicator asked  further questions around what  had happened  at the time, but 
Santander said it had told us all it could. It said it didnt have any more information  to share. 
Our adjudicator said Santander had told it that the last place this money  could be traced  to, 
was an account  belonging  to Santander. And it couldnt say what had happened to the 
money after that. So our adjudicator thought it was more likely than not that Mr W1 and Mr 
W2 hadnt received  the money. He said Santander  should pay Mrs W the closing value of 
both bonds, plus interest  to make up for not having  had the money since  2008.
Santander didnt  agree with that. It said it did know what had happened to a bond for a very 
similar amount,  for Mrs Ws third child (who isnt involved in this complaint). That bond had 
been paid in the form of a cheque, which had been  cashed at a different building  society. 
Santander thought that the money  for Mr W1 and Mr W2 couldve been used, or placed  with 
other savings. It said that although our service had said it was unlikely that Mrs W wouldve 
forgotten about  two bonds for such large  amounts,  Mrs W had apparently also forgotten  
what had happened  to this third bond, for a similar sum, because shed enquired  about  that 
earlier this year. Santander had been  able to tell her what  had happened to that. 
Ref: DRN51079412Santander also queried why this hadnt  been raised  with it, and with our service,  sooner. It 
said there had been  no fraud reported at the branch at the time this money  was paid to the 
branch account.  
Santander pointed  out some inconsistences between what Mrs W had told our service, and 
the evidence shed sent us. And it said that it didnt think  it was reasonable to say that just 
because the money  had last been  shown as in an account belonging to Santander, that it 
was more likely than not that Mrs W didnt get the money.
Mrs W said that Mr W1 and Mr W2 also had accounts at the building society where her third 
childs money had been paid, and she said that she could show  that the two amounts hadnt 
ended up there. Both Mr W1 and Mr W2 have confirmed that they didnt receive  this money.  
Our adjudicator said that hed considered the additional evidence from both sides,  but he still 
thought that Mrs W, and Mr W1 and Mr W2, hadnt received the money,  and Santander 
should pay it to them now. 
Santander still didnt  agree. It said that the money  wouldve  been  paid to Mrs W, not to her 
sons, and it was up to her when she passed this on to them. Santander  said that Mrs Ws 
sons were very young at the time, and just because  they didnt remember receiving the 
money didnt mean it hadnt been paid.  Because our adjudicator and Santander didnt agree, 
our adjudicator said that this case would be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Before this case came to me, Santander  found  evidence that Mrs W had opened two 
separate one year bond accounts on 16 January  2008, for both Mr W1 and Mr W2. Both of 
those accounts  were closed on 31 January 2009  at the end of the one year term. Santander 
said it couldnt provide more  information  than this on these accounts, but it thought this was 
where the money went to in January 2008.  Mrs W said that she had no recollection of taking 
out one year bonds for her sons on 16 January 2008, and she had no paperwork for these.  
This case then came  to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Mrs W told us that two amounts  of money,  over £12,000 each, were  unaccounted  for. I 
said I realised what  an unpleasant position this left the family in, with one sibling having 
received their share of an inheritance, and another two apparently not. But I said I was 
sorry to have to tell Mr W1 and Mr W2 that I didnt  think  that Santander had to pay them 
the missing money now. 
-Mrs W told us she didnt remember taking this money out in 2008, and said if she had 
taken it, then it wouldve been paid into building society accounts  for Mr W1 and Mr W2. 
That was what happened with a third bond, paid out later.  But I thought  it was important 
to bear in mind  that Mrs W also didnt  remember what had happened to the money in the 
third bond. Santander found more information  on that payment, which  was a little more  
recent, and Mrs W and her child traced  the funds as a result.  
-Mrs W then thought  that if this money,  for the third bond, had gone to a building  society 
account, that the money from the two bonds that matured  in 2008 for Mr W1 and Mr W2 
Ref: DRN51079413would also have gone there.  She said those were  the only other accounts they had. But 
we knew now that wasnt right either. Santander  had recently shown us that Mrs W 
opened two new bonds, in the names of Mr W1 and Mr W2, just a few days after this 
money was paid into a branch holding account.  
-Santander noted that Mrs Ws recollection  of events wasnt very clear  for what happened  
to money for her children around  this time. I had to agree  with that. I knew  that Mrs W 
wasnt taking the lead in looking after family finances at that time, and I didnt think there 
was anything to suggest to me that this was anything other than a genuine mistake.  But I 
didnt think we could  rely on the fact that neither  Mrs W nor her sons remembered getting 
this money in 2008, to say that it was more likely than not that Santander still had it.
-Id considered all the evidence  in this case, and I thought  it was more likely than not that 
the money that was paid into a branch holding account on 9 January 2008 for Mr W1 and 
Mr W2 was then reinvested in two one-year bonds for them  both, on 16 January 2008. 
-Those bonds matured  in 2009.  I couldnt  tell what happened to the money then. But I 
hadnt seen anything that suggested to me that Santander still had it now. 
-Because of that, I didnt think that Santander  had to pay Mr W1 and Mr W2 (on whose 
behalf this money was held)  that money now.
-I realised just how disappointed Mr W1 and Mr W2 would be, and Mrs W who brought  
this complaint on their behalf.  But I didnt think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander said it had nothing to add. Mrs W and Mr W2 wrote to object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
In her reply to our service, Mrs W referred to me as the second  ombudsman. But Im the 
only ombudsman to have  considered her case. An adjudicator has previously  been  
attempting to resolve this complaint informally. As the adjudicator wasnt  able to reach an 
agreement between the parties,  the case was passed to me. 
Im one of a number of ombudsmen here at the service. Like my colleagues,  I carry out a 
complete review of a case, and make  my decision. Once that decision is final,  thats the end 
of our services involvement  in the case. 
Mrs W said that she wasnt happy with my conclusion, which she said was based  upon 
hearsay and non-factual evidence from Santander.
Mrs W said that opening receipts and full documentary  evidence had been supplied  for both 
bonds opened for Mr W1 and Mr W2, clearly  dated 5 December 2003. And she had relevant 
documentation for their accounts.  
Mrs W said that, in contrast to that, there  was a complete lack of evidence from Santander to 
support the claim that these bonds  were paid out on maturity. She said it was essential that 
Santander provide  a copy of the cheque or draft that was drawn to fulfil its obligation.  She 
Ref: DRN51079414said Santander should be able to tell us how this was subsequently  dispatched  and whether 
the corresponding entry (whether a cheque or draft) was cashed, deposited or is still 
outstanding according to its records.  She said that evidence  should be provided.
Mrs W said that the last place that the money  could be traced according to Santander was 
an account belonging to it. The recent  claim that two one-year  bonds were opened on 16 
January 2008  again required documentary evidence. 
Mrs W said shed  proven  that she had maintained accurate and thorough records regarding 
the previous bonds of which our service  had full copies. She felt Santander should provide 
similar evidence.  Otherwise I was just basing my decision  on hearsay. 
Mrs W said that with regard  to the separate bond  for her third child - evidence was provided 
by Santander  on request  which confirmed  payment of this bond which was opened on 4 May 
2005. So no complaint was necessary about that.
Mrs W said that Id described this as an unpleasant position, in fact it is far more than that. 
This was money that she had set aside  for her childrens future after a bereavement.  She 
told us her employment details, and said that she refuted any implication  that she may have 
inadvertently forgotten about  or spent such a large sum of money.
Mrs W said Id disagreed  with the views previously expressed by our service. She felt that 
without the support of documentary evidence from such  a large  organisation as Santander 
(which she said has a duty to maintain comprehensive and contemporaneous records) there 
was a serious lack of detail and transparency in my decision. Mrs W said Santander  also has 
a duty to safeguard customers financial investments. She wanted  me to reconsider.
Mrs W also kindly pointed  out a small typo in my decision, which  Ive corrected in the above 
text. 
Mr W2 wrote to us, and raised  similar  arguments.  He was concerned that the evidence  that 
Santander had put forward was inadmissible,  and didnt prove or disprove any facts in 
relation to this particular  case. He said he wanted to make a data protection request to see 
any evidence that Santander had put forward, and if there wasnt  sufficient evidence, then he 
presumed the bonds would be marked as dormant, and the money could be claimed by him 
and by Mr W1 at any time. Mr W2 said that there were a number of factual errors  and 
inconsistencies in my provisional decision,  which questioned its rigour and validity. He didnt 
say what those factual  errors and inconsistencies  were. 
Mr W2 also said that he considered it discourteous of me to suggest that Mrs W had merely 
forgotten about  this inheritance. 
I think it might help if I start by considering  what Mrs W said about evidence  that Santander  
should be able to supply. Shes said she sent us evidence of the bonds.  And she thinks  
Santander should be able to reach a similar  standard of evidence.  So it should  be able to 
show her a copy of any cheque which was issued, and to say where the funds were paid. 
And Mr W2 has raised similar concerns about  evidence Santander has available.
Mrs W and her sons are able to keep their own account details  for as long as they like. But 
when Santander  thinks about how long it can keep its customers  records,  it has to take the 
relevant law into account. And because of how those laws work, I just wouldnt expect  
Ref: DRN51079415Santander to have the sort of evidence  that Mrs W would  like to see, for accounts which 
were closed over ten years ago. 
Data protection laws set out that banks and building societies arent supposed to keep hold 
of peoples personal information  forever. Banks dont  usually keep  information  for more than 
six years, and they arent supposed  to just hang  on to information in case it might be helpful 
in future. They arent supposed  to keep information if they dont  have a business need for it.
For those reasons, I dont  think  that its surprising if Santander doesnt have a cheque  or 
cheques showing that money for Mr W1 and Mr W2 was paid out in either  2008  or 2009, 
because of how long ago that was. I wouldnt expect Santander to be able to show  us that.
What Santander  has been able to share  with us are its internal screenshots which show  that 
Mrs W was trustee  for two accounts held for Mr W1 and Mr W2, which were opened on 16 
January 2008,  and closed  31 January 2009. Ive seen those screenshots, and Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that those accounts existed.  This decision is based on that 
evidence. 
Mr W2 has questioned whether the evidence that Santander has offered is admissible.  But 
our service  isnt a court, its an informal dispute  resolution  service.  We dont have the same  
rules about  what evidence an ombudsman can and cant consider. 
Mr W2 has also queried what Santander has been able to prove. This doesnt seem  to me to 
be a case where either side is going  to be able to prove, beyond  any doubt  at all, what 
happened to the money  that was in bonds for Mr W1 and Mr W2, which matured in 2008. 
But that isnt the standard  that our service  applies.  What I have to do, is to look at the 
evidence available  to me, and decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.
Santander cant prove absolutely that the money  from the bonds  which  matured in 2008  was 
paid into the two bond accounts opened in January  2008. Ive explained that I wouldnt 
expect Santander  to be able to prove that, because of the length of time thats  passed,  and 
because of the duties on Santander  not to just hold on to old information.  But given how 
close in time the closure of the five-year bonds  was to the opening of these one-year bonds, 
I think its more likely than not that the money was paid there. 
Santander similarly cant prove  absolutely  where the money  from these bonds  went after 
January 2009.  But again, Ive explained  I wouldnt expect Santander to be able to prove that. 
And I dont  think that means that its more likely  than not Santander still has the money now. 
Mrs W said that she strongly  denied any implication that she may have inadvertently  
forgotten about  or spent  such  a large  sum of money.  I dont  think  that Mrs W spent this 
money. I havent seen  anything that suggests that to me. 
I know that Mr W2 has said that he considers it discourteous for me to suggest that Mrs W 
may have  forgotten what happened  to these bonds. Its certainly not my intention to be 
discourteous to Mrs W. Im aware  that Mrs W wasnt taking the lead on family finances  at the 
time. But I cant ignore  the fact that she had forgotten what  had happened  to a similar 
amount of money,  held in trust for her third child. She and her third child were apparently 
able to trace  that money after Santander  told her where it had been paid.
Ref: DRN51079416I also cant ignore the fact that both Mr W1 and Mr W2 suggested another  family member,  
who Im told was taking the lead on family  finances  at the time, could have had something to 
do with this missing money.  
For those reasons, I still dont think,  as I said in my provisional decision, that I can rely on the 
fact that neither Mrs W nor her sons remembered getting this money in 2008,  or indeed in 
2009, to say that it was more likely than not that Santander still had it. And I havent  seen  
anything else that suggests to me that Santander still has this money now.  On balance,  I 
think that its more likely that Santander  does  not have this money any more,  and that whats 
gone wrong is not Santanders fault.
Mrs W said that this was more than just an unpleasant position for the family. I appreciate  
that, and I certainly  didnt  mean to make  light of this problem in any way. I think that Mrs Ws 
latest letter to us has made me realise, even more, just how disappointed  that she, and 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 will be, by my decision. Im sorry we cant  help them.  But I just dont think 
that its more likely than not that Santander  has this money. So I cant fairly ask it to pay the 
money to Mr W1 and Mr W2 now. I still dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W, on behalf 
of Mr W1 and Mr W2, to accept or reject  my decision before 17 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5107941