K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Intelligent Money Ltd (IM)  sent a form to authorise a transfer of his 
pension investments to an incorrect address. As a result the transfer  was delayed and Mr M 
says this has caused a fall in the value of his pension investments.
background
Mr M held a pension investment with IM. His investments  were  placed on an investment 
platform provided by a company I will call C. 
On 17 January 2018 IM sent a form to Mr M for his signature in order to complete the 
transfer, however  this was sent to an incorrect address. The form was resent  to the correct  
address on 21 March 2018,  and forwarded to C who encashed Mr Ms funds on 3 April 2018, 
and the transfer  then completed on 11 April 2018.
Mr M complained to IM about the delays caused  by sending the paperwork to an incorrect  
address. 
IM accepted that it had originally sent the transfer paperwork to an incorrect  address. It 
considered when it thought the transfer  would have completed if it hadnt made that mistake  
and offered compensation to Mr M based on the fall in value of his pension investments.
Mr M did not accept IMs offer. He didnt  agree  with the date that IM had chosen to value his 
investments, saying that this date minimised the compensation he was due. He thought it 
would be fairer to use an average of the fund value over a period of time to reflect the 
uncertainty about when the transfer would have happened. So he brought  his complaint to 
this Service. 
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She didnt agree that it 
would be right to use an average of the fund value  over a period of time to calculate the 
compensation that was due. But she also didnt agree with the date that IM had used to 
calculate the compensation. Looking at the time it had taken  for the transfer to actually 
happen, and when the funds were actually encashed to enable that transfer,  she thought IM 
should use an earlier date to assess the compensation due to Mr M.
Our adjudicator also considered that following the transfer Mr M had subsequently  invested 
some of his pension funds  into other assets,  but had left part in cash. So she thought it 
would be reasonable to assume a similar  proportion of the compensation would have been 
invested in the same way and at the same time. So she asked IM to increase the 
compensation to reflect  that notional return.
IM didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendations.  It considered that it was 
unreasonable to base  the likely transfer  date on what  had happened later as he had 
expedited that transfer to mitigate  some  of its earlier mistake.   So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr M accepts my decision  it is legally binding on both parties.
Ref: DRN58577142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I dont need to decide here whether something has gone wrong.  IM has accepted  that it sent 
the transfer paperwork to the wrong  address. So what  is left for me to decide is how we 
should calculate the loss that mistake  has caused  to Mr M and so what  IM should do to put 
things right.
Mr M has said that as part of the transfer he wanted  to turn his pension investments  into 
cash. I think what he says is an accurate reflection  of his intentions. I can see that is exactly  
what he did when the transfer was ultimately made. And he continued to hold his pension  
funds in cash with the new provider for some time, before reinvesting a part of his funds the 
following August  and October. The loss that Mr M says he was caused  was due to a fall in 
the value of his investments between when his original request should have been processed  
(in January/February 2018) and when it was actually processed (in April 2018).
I have no way of knowing  exactly  when Mr Ms funds would have been moved into cash  if 
IM had correctly addressed the original paperwork.  I dont  know  how long it would have 
taken Mr M to return that paperwork to IM. IM then needed to action the forms  the time 
taken for that isnt clearly defined, but I note that IM has said it would normally  take 2 to 3 
days. And the instruction  then needed to be sent to C who would encash  Mr Ms assets.
But the date the transfer would have taken place  is critical in determining the compensation 
that should be paid to Mr M. But I dont accept, as Mr M says,  that it would be reasonable to 
take an average value over a period of around  two weeks.  I think  the best estimate  I have 
about how long the encashment would take from start to finish  would be the time that was 
actually taken a couple of months later. I have considered what  IM says about the later 
transfer being expedited but I dont agree. I havent  seen  anything to make  me think  that the 
2 to 3 days that IM would  normally take to process  a request of this nature was significantly 
reduced.
The paperwork was sent to Mr Ms correct address on 21 March. C has confirmed that 
Mr Ms investment was encashed  on 3 April. That is a period of 13 days. So if the paperwork 
had been sent to Mr Ms correct address on 17 January I think the investments  would  have 
been encashed on 30 January. That is the date that I am directing IM to use when 
calculating the compensation that is due to Mr M. 
I now need to consider  the loss that Mr M has suffered from not being able to invest this 
compensation over the past year and a half. Mr M has told us that he has left a proportion  of 
his pension fund in cash since the transfer.  So I dont think  he would have missed out on any 
investment returns if the compensation  had been  similarly invested.  But Mr M did invest  two 
tranches of his fund in August and October  2018. So I think it is reasonable to assume that 
Ref: DRN58577143Mr M would have made a similar investment with part of the compensation that he is due. 
I can see the two investments he made  each comprised approximately  23% of the amount 
he transferred from C. And so my redress below requires IM to increase its compensation to 
reflect the returns Mr M would have received by investing the compensation in a similar way.
putting things right
IM should  calculate  the value of Mr Ms pension  investment if it had been encashed on 
30 January 2018.  It should compare this value to the amount that was transferred by C on 
11 April 2018. If the value at 30 January is higher than the value at 11 April Mr M has lost out 
and the difference should be paid to him as compensation.
IM should  increase the amount of compensation to reflect the returns  Mr M would have 
received if the compensation calculated  above  had been invested in the proportions shown 
as follows;
From 10 August  2018
JPM US India Acc (5.73%)
JPM Indian Trust (3.82%)
JPM US Small Co Acc (1.91%)
Henderson Far East Inc (3.82%)
Schroder Oriental Income Trust (3.82%)
JPM Global Emerging Markets Trust (3.82%)
Cash (77.08%)
From 25 October  2018
JPM US India Acc (11.46%)
JPM Indian Trust (7.64%)
JPM US Small Co Acc (3.82%)
Henderson Far East Inc (7.64%)
Schroder Oriental Income Trust (7.64%)
JPM Global Emerging Markets Trust (7.64%)
Cash (54.15%)
IM should  pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the amount  of the 
compensation and any investment returns.  The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would conflict  with any existing  protection or allowance.
If IM is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income  
tax that would otherwise have been  paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, as Mr M would  have  been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  
should only be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN58577144my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Intelligent  Money  Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5857714