K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection policy (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI in one of the banks  branches in 2009 at the same  time as they 
applied for a mortgage. The policy was in Mr Cs sole name and gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say the adviser didnt make  clear the PPI was optional. I cant know  what was 
said in the meeting but Ive looked at the available paperwork  from the sale.  Their mortgage  
offer said You are not required to take out any insurance through  Abbey and made clear 
only buildings insurance was a condition of the mortgage. The bank says its sales  process at 
the time was to provide  a policy summary explaining  the main  features of the policy  and to 
read a duty of care declaration before a customer made their decision. I havent  found 
enough evidence  to conclude that it didnt follow its standard process  for this sale.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Cs comments  but I also have to consider how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what they recall. On balance, I think  its most 
likely Mr and Mrs C were  made aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they 
chose to take it out for Mr C. I can understand they might not remember this given how long 
ago the sale was. 
Mr and Mrs C say that Santander recommended the PPI, the bank disagrees.  I havent seen 
any evidence that it reviewed their individual circumstances  and then made a 
recommendation. So I think its most likely  it didnt provide advice. This means it didnt have 
to check if the policy  was right for Mr C. But it did have  to make sure they got all the 
information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for him. 
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this 
because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Mr C wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such 
as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or certain  types of 
Ref: DRN53488262employment contract.  As he couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover,  
I think it unlikely better  information  about  the policys exclusions and limitations would  
have changed  their decision to buy it. 
Mr C was entitled to statutory sick pay (SSP) and then after 26 weeks off sick he 
was entitled to 75% of salary until he returned  to work, or was no longer in the same 
employment. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to this work benefit and for 
up to 12 months. This would have been  useful  in the first 26 weeks  of any time off 
sick when Mr Cs income would have been  significantly reduced  if he was only 
receiving SSP. 
Mr C also said he had savings of around  £20,000  in total but within this he is 
including a property  investment. This isnt a suitable alternative as the money may 
not have been accessible when he needed it  he may not have been able to release 
equity in the time frame needed.  Mr C hasnt been able to evidence  how much  he 
held in cash savings  at the time, and the PPI would have meant  he could use any 
accessible cash savings to cover  other  living expenses whilst not working   or to 
keep them intact for his future needs.  
Overall, given the consequences  for Mr and Mrs C of defaulting on a large  and long 
term debt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
them if Mr C lost his job or was sick and unable to work.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Mr and Mrs C but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And they could cancel it without 
further cost if at any stage they no longer wanted  it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of the problems  with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5348826