K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and others for 
whose actions I hold that company responsible. That includes its associated plumbing and 
drainage company and its engineers. It also includes  its associated company that dealt with 
the claim that British  Gas had caused  damage.
Mrs C had a Homecare policy that covered her central heating. On 12 November she 
contacted British Gas to report a fault with a tap in her upstairs  bathroom. She took out 
further cover  for her plumbing. On 13 November 2018, an engineer visited her and replaced 
the hot and cold taps.
She complained that the engineer was responsible for leaks which caused damage to the 
ceiling and walls of the downstairs toilet. In January  2019, a claims-handler said Mrs C had 
caused a leak by knocking a pipe under the sink. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
British Gas had dealt with Mrs Cs complaint fairly.  He thought that the leak that Mrs C was 
complaining about wasnt present when the engineer left.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs C 
and to British  Gas on 12 June 2019. I summarise my findings:
The new taps were  fitted through  holes  in the sink. The engineer connected the shiny  
new metal  below the sink to the old copper pipes.
The engineers own evidence points to one of those connections having  lasted  
almost no time at all. And I didnt find it fair to blame Mrs C for the leak.  I found that 
the engineer had fallen  below a reasonable standard of work.
Id thought about the distress and inconvenience  British Gas caused  Mrs C through 
the leaks and by the way it dealt with her complaint.  
Subject to any further information from Mrs C or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C £100.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
British Gas says it has nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
Mrs C disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
British Gas took a direct debit of £130.21 on 22 November 2018.  
Ref: DRN53869282The British Gas plumbing company discrediting of British  Gas taps shows that 
British Gas is giving customers cheap  quality products.   
Late in the evening on 13 November 2018,  her call to British  Gas lasted over an 
hour. She was very upset by the damage to her ceiling and worried about dampness  
close to electrical light fittings. The British Gas customer  officer  definitely told her not 
to use the toilet  downstairs.  He said this was to avoid damage to the house  electrics.  
He had also told her not to use the new taps until he could get another  plumber to 
come around in a day or two. For 5 days her family was unable  to use the toilet 
downstairs and upstairs bathroom sink.
She told the customer officer she wanted to rescind the plumbing cover.
She never mentioned any policy excess in her conversations with British  Gas.
It is unjust  not to order a cancellation  in this case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mrs C renewed  her central heating cover  for a year from October 2018 at a cost of about 
£168.00.
From its file note, I think she contacted British Gas on 12 November about  a problem in her 
bathroom. The file note refers to a fixed fee of £69.00.  So I dont think British  Gas said it 
couldnt cover the fault if it was pre-existing.  Rather  I think  it said that if Mrs C added 
plumbing and drainage  cover it would send an engineer to fix the fault for a fixed fee of 
£69.00.
In the event, Mrs C added plumbing and drainage cover at an additional cost of £90.58 and 
also home electrical cover at an additional cost of £39.63. Thats a total of £130.21. The 
additional cover  was put on the existing policy. So each element of the cover was for the 
remaining period  to October 2019.
British Gas has sent us some policy terms. They  refer to an excess or fixed  fee as though 
they are the same  thing.
The only two people  with direct knowledge  of what happened  on the visit of 13 November 
are Mrs C and the engineer. The nearest  we have to evidence  from the engineer  is a 
British Gas file note dated 16 November.  It includes the following:
I discussed  this matter  with the operative who advised me that when he attended on 
the 13/11 he fitted the standard BG taps (he also left quotes for additional work) and 
on completion he showed the work to the customer who signed of (sic) the checklist.  
When [named engineer]  left he was in the van and the customer  came  out of the 
property and called him back  in as there  was a leak. [Named engineer]  said he went 
back in to look at it and said that the customer had twisted the connector possibly by 
putting cleaning  products  back  in place. [Named engineer] advised that there was 
water pouring out and that there was an open end which he resolved and then left. 
Ref: DRN53869283[Named engineer]  told me the customer  had only called  him back that one time. 
[Named engineer]  checked for any damage  and said that there  was none present.
I have added the underlining. I will return to this to draw a contrast with a later email. 
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Cs statement  that the engineer was critical of the quality of 
the standard British Gas taps and tried to sell her some others. But Mrs C didnt buy the 
other taps.  And she hasnt shown that there  was anything  wrong  with the quality of the 
standard taps. So I dont hold British Gas at fault for what the engineer  said.
Mrs C made  a telephone  complaint that evening. British Gas hasnt provided a recording.  
But its file note refers  to leaks (plural) since the repair. British  Gas made a list of what Mrs C 
wanted. That included  reassurance that the taps were fixed. It also included  repair  of the 
water damage. It also included the following:
excess  to be wiped  due to these  issues 
So Mrs C didnt want to pay the £69.00.  But the list of what  Mrs C wanted didnt include 
cancellation of the plumbing and drainage cover. So I find that Mrs C is mistaken  that she 
asked for that on 13 November.
I accept that Mrs C was worried about  using the taps in the bathroom sink. I think she was 
also worried  about damp affecting  the light fitting  on the ceiling  in the toilet downstairs. But 
the British Gas file note didnt say that British Gas advised her not to use those taps or that 
toilet. So Im not persuaded that it gave any such advice.
On about 18 November, a second  engineer  visited and looked at the damaged ceiling. He 
offered to arrange  repair and repainting. But Mrs C didnt want  the plumbing and drainage 
company back in her house.
I can see from its file that British Gas on 18 December wrongly  believed  that Mrs C was 
making a claim on her home insurance. I think this was because of the file note about wiping 
the policy excess.
I accept that Mrs C had to chase British  Gas for a response to her complaint. And when she 
rang on 4 January, British Gas said her claim was closed because  she had decided  to claim 
on her home insurance. I dont doubt that she found  that irritating.
British Gas shouldve  sent a final response by about  8 January. It didnt do so. But that didnt 
cause much delay in Mrs C bringing  her complaint  to us on 15 January.
By the time a senior claims-handler emailed Mrs C on 18 January, she said the following:
The reason for the leak was that when placing back your cleaning products into the 
cupboard you had accidentally knocked  the sink fitting, causing it to leak.
So  in contrast to the file note of 16 November - twisted had become knocked and 
possibly had become The reason and back in place had become the cupboard . I think 
the claims-handler shouldve been  more careful. 
In response, Mrs C sent an email with some  further  details and photos.  The photos show  a 
sink supported by a pedestal. There is no cupboard. 
Ref: DRN53869284Mrs C says that British Gas sent someone  else to repair the damage on 2 February.  Our 
investigator wrote his opinion on about 14 February,  wrongly believing  that  having offered 
on 18 November to do so  British Gas had withdrawn its offer to do a repair.
I think the investigator had drawn an incorrect distinction between  the taps and the fittings 
under the sink. From the photos, I think that the new taps were  fitted  through holes in the 
sink. The engineer connected  the shiny new metal below the sink to the old copper pipes.
The engineers own evidence points to one of those connections having  lasted  almost  no 
time at all. And I dont find it fair to blame  Mrs C for the leak. I find that the engineer had 
fallen below a reasonable standard  of work.
So I find it only fair and reasonable  that British  Gas not only fixed the connections  but also  
after she brought her complaint to us  repaired the damage to the downstairs toilet. I find it 
strange that the latest information from British Gas was that it was moving  forward with the 
repairs.
Ive thought about Mrs Cs request that British Gas should cancel the plumbing  cover and 
refund her. But she had made  a claim and British Gas had done a repair.  And I havent seen 
enough evidence  that Mrs C asked for cancellation  until she contacted us in response to the 
investigators opinion.  So I dont find it fair and reasonable  to order a cancellation and refund 
of the plumbing  and drainage cover.
Instead Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience British Gas caused Mrs C through  
the leaks and by the way it dealt with her complaint.  Overall, I find £100.00 fair and 
reasonable compensation for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C £100.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5386928