K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading  as Lloyds  TSB) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2000 Mr B took out the PPI when he applied for a credit card during a meeting  at one of 
the banks branches. The policy  protected Mr Bs credit card monthly repayments if he 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr B disagrees. Mr Bs main complaint 
is that he wasnt informed  that he had PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its completely understandable that Mr B mightve forgotten  some of the details about this 
sale. Ive seen his completed credit  card application. This shows  that Mr B ticked the Yes 
option to include  PPI. And he signed  the completed  form to indicate that he agreed  with what  
it said on the form. There was an option  to say No if he hadnt wanted to have  PPI. This is 
left blank on the form Mr B signed.  I dont know what was discussed when Mr B applied for 
his credit card with PPI. But, despite  what he remembers now,  I think  it wouldve been clear  
from the paperwork Mr B filled in to get his credit card that the PPI was optional and the 
policy was added to his credit card account when he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr B. If a business makes a recommendation about  
PPI it should provide  important policy information  clearly and take reasonable steps to make  
sure the cover it recommends is suitable.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or 
sickness. And it wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out 
of work. Mr B said he wouldve only been able to rely on statutory sick pay if he wasnt able 
to work and he just had a limited amount of savings.  So, looking at what hes told us about 
his circumstances  at the time, I think PPI offered Mr B useful benefits and it was suitable for 
him. 
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr B made a claim. But Mr B signed up for the policy  when he didnt have 
to  so he seems to have  wanted this type of cover. The policy appears to have been 
affordable for Mr B at the time  he couldve  cancelled it if his circumstances  changed or he 
didnt want to pay for it.
Ref: DRN57397722The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if this wouldve affected Mr B 
being able to claim on the policy  in all the circumstances  he might reasonably have 
expected. So, I dont think having more  information  about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  put Mr B off taking it out. 
On balance, taking  all this information  into account, I dont find the PPI was mis-sold.
So Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds Bank PLC has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Lloyds Bank PLC should also pay back  to 
Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that. 
Lloyds Bank PLC should re-work the credit  card account and pay back to Mr B the 
difference between  what  he owed and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and 
profit share it got hadnt been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest  if he paid off the credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back  the tax 
if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But (if it hasnt already  done so) Lloyds  Bank  PLC does  have  to pay back to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5739772