K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr G took out in 2004. It was added  to his 
account when  he applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave Mr G clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because insufficient information was provided about 
the cost and benefits of the policy. I think this would have  mattered  to Mr G because  he had 
over six months sick pay through his job, which means he could have  met his credit card 
repayments for a while without the policy. So I think Mr G probably wouldnt have wanted  the 
policy if hed properly understood  the cost and benefits. 
I dont think Mr G wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given him enough  information about 
it. So, I think Mr G has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  not expecting  Mr G to 
have such good  employee benefits given his length  of service. But I still think I should  uphold 
the complaint.  FICL has provided  no supporting  evidence as to why it thinks  this. And as 
such I see no compelling reason as to why I should doubt Mr Gs recollection. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr G would  have  owed  when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr G owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN58428732B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr G would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mr G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5842873