K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss M have  complained about  Admiral Insurance Company  Limiteds  service  
following a claim on their motor insurance policy.
Mr M is a named driver  on his daughters - Miss Ms - policy.  Mr M has taken the lead in 
bringing this complaint so, for ease, where I refer to his comments those should  be read as 
being in respect  of both himself and Miss M.
background
Miss M was in an accident that wasn't  her fault.  She claimed on her policy  and Admiral  
deemed her car to be a total loss. It settled the claim but Mr M was unhappy with a number 
of aspects of Admirals service. Admiral  acknowledged that it hadn't got everything right and 
paid around £200 compensation in total to address the impact of its mistakes. Mr M didn't 
think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that Admiral  had done  enough to put things right and had dealt with 
the claim fairly. Mr M didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms made a number of detailed points. I've considered  
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessment of the complaint.
I can see that not everything  went smoothly following Miss Ms claim. In particular Admiral 
overlooked some of Mr Ms correspondence and as a result thought that Mr M had accepted  
Admirals position  when that wasn't the case.  And so it didn't  respond promptly  to some of 
the points that he'd made. But Admiral accepted that in its responses to Mr M's complaint 
and it paid around £200 in compensation. I know Mr M remains unhappy and believes that 
Admiral bullied him and his daughter. But I haven't seen any evidence,  beyond Mr Ms 
comments, that Admiral  bullied them and I think its responses to Mr Ms complaints and the 
compensation its paid are reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Ms said that Admiral lied and told him that it had scrapped his car when  it hadn't  done 
so. But I think he's mistaken. I've noted  that Admiral  told Mr M that it had arranged for your 
vehicle to be disposed  of by the salvage company. But that doesn't mean  it had physically 
scrapped the car as Mr M believes. Mr Ms policy says that once Admiral has settled a total 
loss claim then the car becomes  its property. And where, as here, a policyholder has 
decided not to buy back the car its usual for an insurer  to sell that to its salvage agent.  The 
salvage agent will then decide how it wants to dispose of the car. But, depending on the 
damage to the car, that doesn't  necessarily mean  the car will be physically scrapped. The 
salvage agent may decide to repair the car itself and then sell it; sell it as it is for someone 
else to repair; break  the car for parts;  or  if the car is very badly damaged or burnt out - 
crush it. In this case Admiral had simply told the salvage agent  to take the next steps. But in 
any event Admiral didn't  tell Mr M that the car had actually been scrapped.  What it said was 
Ref: DRN57997962that it had arranged  for its salvage agent  to dispose of the car. That's not the same  as 
saying it had been scrapped. So I don't think  it did lie to Mr M.
Mr Ms also unhappy that Admiral initially made a decision  that the car was a total loss 
without receiving an engineers estimate  of the cost to repair it. When  Miss M reported the 
accident she told Admiral  that the car wasn't safe to drive. She said it had damage to the 
headlight, grill, bonnet, radiator and bumper. And Admiral felt at that stage  that, given the 
cars age, it was most  likely  to be a total loss. So it moved the car to its salvage agents 
storage rather than to one of its approved repairers  to provide an estimate for repair. But it 
didn't actual decide at that point  that the car was a total loss. Instead the salvage agent 
provided images of the damage  to the car and sent those to Admiral.  One of its in-house 
engineers considered those and decided that the car was uneconomical to repair  and so it 
was a total loss. And I think thats reasonable.
Its worth  noting that Admirals engineers  will have expertise in assessing  the damage  and 
value of cars. And it wouldn't be in Admirals interest  to pay for the total loss of a car where it 
might be economical to repair it. That's  because the cost of a total loss settlement will be 
more than the cost of repairs. And its particularly important in this case  that Admiral didn't 
pay too much to settle the claim as liability  wasn't in dispute. That means that Admiral would 
try to reclaim  its outlay   what its paid to settle the claim - from the other drivers insurer. 
And if the other  insurer  thought Admiral  had paid out more  than it needed to in order to settle 
the claim then its likely the other drivers  insurer would limit the amount it repaid to Admiral 
to the cost of repairs, rather than the full total loss settlement amount. So If Admiral had any 
concerns about  whether or not the car was economical to repair then it would be in its 
interest to have a full engineering report done.  But where that wasn't  in doubt then a full 
engineers estimate  wouldn't be necessary. And there would be no requirement for it to incur  
the costs of such an assessment. So I think it handled the matter fairly.
Mr Ms also said he finds it unfair that hes bound by the terms and conditions of his policy 
even though the other driver accepted liability.  While they were  required  to inform Admiral  
about the accident, Mr and Miss M didn't have to pursue a claim on their policy if they didn't 
want to; they could have claimed directly from other drivers insurer.  And had that happened 
then they wouldn't have been bound by the terms of their policy.  But because  Miss M did 
claim on her policy, Admiral followed standard insurance industry procedure  in such 
circumstances: that is to settle  Miss Ms claim and then seek to recover its outlay from the 
other drivers  insurer.  And as such, given that Miss M was claiming from her own policy I 
think its reasonable that Admiral would look to apply the terms and conditions of that policy.  
Mr Ms said that the other drivers  insurer won't  talk to him. That might be the case  but as 
Admiral isn't responsible for the other insurers actions  I don't intend to comment  further on 
that here.
Mr M was also unhappy with Admirals valuation of the car. I've seen that when looking to 
value Mr M's car Admiral considered three  well known industry trade guides used for valuing 
second hand cars. Mr M doesn't  think this was fair as he said that the guides aren't available 
to the public. But, as far as Im aware, the guides are available to the public, although as I 
understand it they require a subscription and/or  fee in order  to do so. So I don't think its 
unfair that Admiral used  these. And we find the guides more  reliable  than the prices cars are 
advertised for. That's because the guides  are based on likely sales  prices  whereas adverts  
are usually inflated to allow some  room for negotiation.  Admiral  valued the car at the highest 
figure given  by the three trade guides  it considered and I think  its valuation  is reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN57997963my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5799796