K822xcomplaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 are partners in a business.  They  complain HSBC  UK Bank  Plc sent them 
a letter  to say it would  be closing their business  account, after they had already provided 
information it had requested.  The partners  would like the bank to compensate them  
appropriately for the trouble and upset this caused.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 30 January 2019. A copy  of this is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out why I felt this complaint should be 
partially upheld.  And I explained why I thought HSBC should pay Mr M1 and Mr M2 an 
additional £150 compensation, taking the total compensation  to £250.
Both parties  have been given time to consider my provisional decision. HSBC  have 
responded and said that they accept  my provisional decision. Mr M1 and Mr M2 have  
responded and said that they feel they deserve more  than £250  compensation. Theyve  said 
that they would accept  £500 compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to
change the findings I reached  in my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mr M1 and Mr M2 feel that £250  compensation is not enough. Theyve told 
us that it doesnt  cover  the costs they incurred when they had to notify clients  about their 
new business bank  account details. 
I understand why this would be disappointing  for them. But I explained  in my provisional 
decision why I didnt  feel that Mr M1 and Mr M2 had to close their business account  because 
of HSBCs actions. I agree that HSBC made  a mistake when they didnt  process the 
Safeguard form they completed. But I still think that HSBC gave Mr M1 sufficient 
reassurance that they were  not about to close the account. So I dont think it would be fair to 
ask HSBC to cover  the costs Mr M1 and Mr M2 incurred when they switched  to another  
bank.
I did say that HSBC should  pay a total of £250  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience their actions caused Mr M1 and Mr M2. And I still think that this is a fair 
amount for them to pay to put things  right.
Ref: DRN52278442my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right I require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M1 and Mr M2 a further £150 compensation. This will take the 
total compensation they have been  paid in respect  of this complaint to £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2, 
in their capacity as partners of the business, to accept or reject my decision before 
27 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52278443copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 are partners in a business. They complain HSBC UK Bank Plc sent them a letter to 
say it would  be closing their business account, after they had already provided information it had 
requested. The partners would like the bank  to compensate them appropriately for the trouble and 
upset this caused.
background
In February 2018, the partners received an online notification from HSBC  asking them  to fill out a 
Safeguard form for their business account, which they did. 
In April 2018,  HSBC sent a letter  saying  they would be closing the account  on 18 June 2018. Mr M1 
tried to call HSBC several times to find out why but he wasnt able to get through. He went  into a local 
branch who suggested he attend a bigger branch to see if they could assist him. The branch couldnt, 
but said Mr M1 could use their telephone to call the relevant department.  
During the call, HSBC explained it hadnt picked up the form to review.  The agent  was able to find the 
form and send  it off for review.  He said their safeguarding  team would let the partners know if they 
needed more information,  otherwise they would send a letter confirming  it had been processed 
correctly. And he said that as long as they received  all the necessary information they wouldnt close 
the account.  
The partners set up a new business account with another bank. They  say they did so because they 
were worried  HSBC would close their account. They  add that this caused them  significant 
inconvenience and it cost money to tell their clients about the change. The partners say theyre  
worried that as a result of switching banks, their clients will think  theyve done something wrong and 
this could  result in them  losing business. 
HSBC paid £100 into the business account to apologise for their error. Our investigator felt this was 
fair. They didnt think that Mr M1 and Mr M2 had to switch their account to a new bank as HSBC had 
told him they wouldnt be closing it after all.  
Mr M1 and Mr M2 disagreed.  Mr M1says they took action upon receiving the letter  telling them the 
bank would close the account.  And they dont think £100 is enough compensation  for the 
inconvenience and upset caused by HSBCs error. So the case has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I understand Mr M1and  Mr M2 would like HSBC  to pay the 
business £5,000 compensation for the cost and inconvenience involved in switching bank accounts. I 
know they will be disappointed, but I dont think it would be fair to ask to HSBC  to pay this amount. 
But I do think  they should increase the compensation they have offered  to a total of £250. Ill explain 
why.
HSBCs request for information was made to ensure it could verify the businesss identity and to 
enable the bank to better understand the businesss financial dealings. Banks and other financial 
businesses are required  by law to make certain checks like this, and may face penalties if they dont.  
Ref: DRN52278444To facilitate  this the bank was collecting  customer information via their Safeguard form. Mr M1 filled 
out this form online on behalf of the partnership  and received a notification  that it was complete. But 
HSBC have  explained that due to an error with their system the form was not actually sent for review.  
As a result, HSBC thought the safeguarding information  hadnt been provided. So, in line with their 
usual process, a letter  was sent saying that it would  be closing the account giving two months notice.   
I appreciate it would have been alarming  to receive the letter saying the account would  be closed, and 
I can see that Mr M1 got in touch with the bank straight away. HSBC  says that they told Mr M1 over a 
live chat on 17 April 2018 that they wouldnt  close the account. But they havent given  us a copy  of 
this conversation. However, they have provided us with the recording of a call from 3 May 2018,  
which Ive listened  to. During this call the bank confirm that they have the form and would  arrange  for 
it to be reviewed as soon  as possible. The agent also tells Mr M1 that he would either get a letter 
thanking him for completing  the form, in which case the account wouldnt be closed, or hed get a 
notification asking for more  information. 
Mr M1 says that he only made this call to find out why HSBC were  closing  the account.  But I can hear 
that Mr M1 confirmed on the call he would  like HSBC  to go ahead and review his Safeguard form.  I 
also think HSBC made it clear that if he had completed the form correctly they wouldnt close the 
account. And that even if there was a problem  he would  have the chance to amend the form and 
provide the information they needed to keep the account  open. Given this, I think  HSBC  reassured  Mr 
M1 that they werent about to close the account.  I appreciate they couldnt guarantee they wouldnt 
close it until the Safeguard  form was reviewed. But I think its clear Mr M1 would get further 
information about this. 
HSBC sent a letter  confirming the account information was up to date on the 21 May 2018. Mr M1 
says that by this point  he had already opened a new business  account with another bank.  But I can 
see that HSBC received the switch  out notice  on 9 May 2018, 6 days after they had told him that 
they wouldnt close the account if he supplied the safeguarding  information. Given  this and whilst I 
appreciate the costs and inconvenience involved, Im not persuaded that Mr M1 and M2 had to go 
ahead with this switch  due to HSBCs actions. 
Mr M1 had difficulty contacting HSBC to find out why it had sent notice to close the account.  I accept  
he couldnt get through on the telephone at first, and visited two branches before speaking to 
someone who could help him. I understand this would have been very frustrating as well as 
inconvenient. I also appreciate it would  have been distressing  to receive the closure notice when Mr 
M1 and Mr M2 had provided all of the information HSBC  had asked for.  So  whilst HSBC  have offered 
£100 compensation for their error in not processing the Safeguard form,  I think it should pay more. I 
think £250 would be a fairer  reflection of the impact this had on Mr M1 and Mr M2. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right for Mr M1 and Mr M2 by paying them a further £150  compensation. This will take the 
total compensation to £250.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5227844