K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent her money she couldnt afford to pay 
back.
background
Mrs D took out 3 loans  with Uncle  Buck between  May and November 2015. She says that 
she was struggling  with debt at the time and if Uncle Buck had done better  checks  it wouldnt 
have lent to her.
Our adjudicator thought that the checks Uncle Buck did before agreeing the loans went  far 
enough but she didnt think that loans one and two shouldve  been given to Mrs D on the 
basis of the income  and outgoings she had declared. She thought that Mrs D didnt have 
enough money after repaying  loans  one and two to meet any unexpected expenses and so 
the loans werent  sustainable. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree and replied to say in summary that taking into account the income 
and expenses Mrs D had declared it was reasonable to lend to her. There was no evidence 
that Mrs D had any unexpected emergencies and nothing  to suggest she was in any 
difficulty as she repaid her loans.  Uncle Buck  said that the amounts involved were very slight  
and income and outgoings  could  fluctuate  both ways  so it wasnt  fair to uphold  the complaint 
on this basis.
The complaint has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN57195232refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint.
For all the loans Mrs D said her income was £1400 and her outgoings were £1210. This left 
her with a disposable income of £190. For the first loan Mrs D needed to repay the highest 
instalment of £120 from this amount. I agree with the adjudicator that it was not sustainable 
to leave Mrs D with only £70 for the whole month to cover any emergencies  or any sundry 
expenses.
Uncle Buck  says that income and outgoing  could fluctuate both ways and there is no 
evidence that Mrs D had any emergencies and so it is unfair to look at the lending decision 
on the basis of hypothetical emergency expenses.  Especially in the context of saying that 
the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate.  
But as I said above  the point is whether the lending was sustainable for Mrs D not just 
whether she technically  had enough  money coming  in to make  the repayment. I dont think 
that leaving Mrs D with £70 is sustainable.  With such a small amount to cover all her 
additional expenses  over the month it is likely that Mrs D would have to borrow again to 
meet her repayment.
The position  is similar for loan 2 although for this loan Mrs D was left with £80 disposable 
income. Again, like the adjudicator, I dont think this is enough money and it is likely  that Mrs 
D would  have to borrow again. This makes the lending  unsustainable.
For the third loan Mrs D was left with £110 after the loan was repaid. On these figures I think 
this loan was affordable.  I dont agree with Uncle Buck that there is a small margin  of 
disposable income between the loans and so they all must be affordable. I think  that for Mrs 
D it was likely that with a small amount of disposable income she would need  to borrow  
again. The larger  the level of disposable income  the consumer is left with, the less likely it is 
that they will need to borrow further to repay the loan. So on balance I think  that Uncle  Buck 
wasnt wrong to give Mrs D loan 3.    
Ref: DRN57195233To put things right, Uncle  Buck should:
refund all interest  and charges Mrs D paid on loans 1 and 2;
add interest to those  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about the refunded  loans from Mrs Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs require Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5719523