K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about the way Shawbrook  Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has dealt  with 
a claim he made under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2013 Mr B entered into an agreement with a company called My Planet Ltd for the supply  
and installation of a solar panel  system.   The cost of the system was £11,920 and My Planet 
arranged a loan with Shawbrook to be repaid with interest over a 15-year term.
Mr B is unhappy with the solar panel  system and says:
My Planet  told him the financial benefits  provided by the system would cover the cost 
of the loan, but that was misrepresented to him.
He was pressured into signing up for the system.
The installation of the system  was not to an appropriate standard and poses a 
potential fire hazard  and risk of future  faults.
My Planet is no longer trading and so Mr C made a claim  to Shawbrook.  Under s.75 a 
finance company  can be responsible for any misrepresentation or breach of contract to the 
same extent as the supplier.
Shawbrook upheld Mr Bs complaint.  It accepted  the system hadnt  been  accurately 
represented to him, but didnt agree he was pressured into the sale. To put things right 
Shawbrook offered to restructure the loan to make the system self-funding  which would 
involve writing-off any outstanding balance and refunding any overpayments made.  
Shawbrook also confirmed it would  be willing  to instruct an approved repairer to inspect and 
investigate any potential  faults with the system  installation.
Mr B remained unhappy  with the proposed  resolution and referred his complaint to this 
Service. One of our investigators reviewed things and considered  Shawbrooks  offer to be 
fair.  She noted  the calculation  was based upon assumptions for historic and industry data,  
because Mr B was unable to provide statements showing  the feed-in tariff  (FIT) payments 
hed received. 
The claims management company (CMC) acting on behalf of Mr B disagreed.  It explained 
the complaint  was not just about  the solar  panels not being self-funding  but also that the 
poor installation  gave rise to concerns about fire risks and future  repair and maintenance 
costs.  
The investigator noted an inspection had been carried out on the system at Mr Bs home, 
and it identified problems  with the installation  of the panels.  She reviewed everything and 
agreed Shawbrook  should arrange for the DC cables beneath the panels to be made  good  
as they arent correctly  secured.  But she was satisfied  inverter was installed  using  
adequate mounting material, as MDF is commonly used in construction.
As no agreement could be agreed, the complaint  has been  passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
Ref: DRN50859312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
For Mr B to make a valid claim under s.75 there  must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that relationship exists, and as 
Shawbrook has acknowledged  this and made an offer to Mr B Ill not go into any further  
detail here.
Shawbrook has accepted that when  the system was sold it wasnt  accurately represented  to 
Mr B.  So,  the key issue for me to decide is whats a fair and reasonable way to put things 
right.
I understand Mr B has concerns about  the system and wants the solar panels removed and 
a refund.  But Mr B had wanted the solar panel  system  at the time of sale, on the 
understanding it would be installed correctly and provide the financial benefits he was told it 
would.  Its not my role to make any misrepresentation true, but instead to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable on the facts of an individual complaint.  
Shawbrook has made an offer to make the solar panel system self-funding.   That is, the 
financial benefits provided by the system  would  cover the cost of system.  Those  financial 
benefits are in the form of energy savings, and FIT payments for excess energy  sold back to 
the grid. 
Mr B was led to believe the system wouldnt cost him anything and the benefits from the 
system would cover  the cost of servicing  and repaying the loan with Shawbrook.  In principal 
I consider this to be a fair approach to dealing with the misrepresentations My Planet made 
to Mr B about the performance of the system.  I understand  the calculation  was made using 
historic industry data, and I consider that reasonable given  that Mr B is unable to provide 
Shawbrook with FIT statements.  The loan term is 15 years and so thats an appropriate 
period for the calculation to make  the system self-funding.
But Im aware Mr B has raised other  issues of concern also.   He says he felt pressured into 
purchasing the system from My Planet and entering  into the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook.  I dont  doubt that persuasive  sales tactics were  used by My Planet, but I cant  
say that Mr B was pressured into making the purchase.  He wouldve had a 14-day cooling-
off period, and as he believed the system would be self-funding and pay for itself, I think  on 
balance its likely he willingly entered the agreement.
Aside from the issues relating to misrepresentation and the system being self-funding (which 
Im satisfied Creations offer addresses  in principle), there are still the issues  around how the 
system was installed to address.
A professional inspection  has been carried out on Mr Bs solar panel system.  It identified  
issues with the installation that may cause a potential  fire hazard.  Ive reviewed and 
considered the report in full and I believe there are two key issues  to address.
The first issue relates to the loose DC cables underneath the solar panels.  Over time they 
can chaff against the roof tiles due to movement resulting  from wind,  and this could cause 
the cables to breach and short out  leading to the risk of electrical fire.  I understand why 
Ref: DRN50859313this would worry Mr B, and hes raised concerns  that knowledge of the risk could invalidate 
his buildings insurance in the event of fire.
Given that the cables are loose as a result  of being inadequately secured at installation, I 
consider it reasonable to hold Shawbrook  responsible.  So, it should cover the cost of 
making good the cables as required.
The second  issue  raised by the report relates  to the inverter being mounted on MDF board.  
Ive considered this point  and looked  at the installation guidance for the system.  Section 3.1 
says that if not affixed  directly, inverters should be installed  on adequate mounting material.   
Whilst MDF is generally combustible, its a material which is commonly used in construction 
of buildings  and fire-retardant variations can be used. From what  I understand that would 
would be resistant to the heat emitted by an inverter.  So, having considered this point, Im 
not persuaded its fair to ask Shawbrook to replace the MDF currently  installed.
putting things  right
Overall, I consider Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld.  To  put things right Shawbrook should 
do the following:
Refresh the calculation based up the its existing methodology  to restructure  the loan 
to make the system self-funding, and refund Mr B any overpayments  with 8% simple 
interest.
Pay for the DC cables under the solar panels to be re-installed as necessary.
I note Shawbrook also offered Mr B with £200  in recognition of the distress  and 
inconvenience hes experienced.  Im  satisfied this is an appropriate amount to reflect  the 
time taken  to resolve Mr Bs s.75 claim and put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
To put things right Shawbrook should carry out the steps to compensate Mr B as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5085931