K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that when his bond  matured, Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc didnt  follow his
instructions to transfer money from that account to his new bond. He is also unhappy it didnt
tell him that his money hadnt  been transferred.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I outlined the reasons why I was minded  to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. In summary, I explained  why I thought BOI had made an error in the information it 
gave Mr M during his telephone discussion with it on 22 February 2018. I also stated that I 
thought BOI had made a second mistake in not sending Mr M a reminder  email  telling him 
that he still needed to fund his account.
BOI had offered to compensate Mr M £150 to recognise these oversights. But in my 
provisional decision I explained why I didnt think this offer went  far enough to recognise the 
trouble and upset  Mr M was caused by BOIs errors. I invited both parties to send any 
additional evidence  or comments they wished to make.  
Mr M agreed  with my findings regarding the errors BOI had made.  But he disputed  that 
opening a bond in November was advantageous to him in the two ways I had suggested in 
my provisional decision. Mr M disagrees with the assumptions I made in my provisional 
decision and the feels that the compensation I was minded to award isnt sufficient  to 
recognise his distress and inconvenience. Hes also disputed that he had access  to his 
money while it was in the easy saver account, which is where his money was transferred 
after his bond  matured. For clarity, Ive referred  to that account  in my decisions as the 
holding account.  
In BOIs response to my provisional decision it questioned why Mr M hadnt checked  to see 
whether his deposit in early 2018  had been successful. It explained why it didnt think it was 
fair that it should  pay Mr M the difference between  the interest his funds  earned  in the 
holding account  and what they would  have earned had they been  invested in an instant 
access saving account. 
BOI agreed  with my comments that Mr M was able to invest  more  funds and that he 
benefited from a shorter term investment at the same rate of a 3 year term. Ultimately, BOI 
felt the £150 compensation it had already  offered Mr M to resolve his complaint was fair and 
reasonable and it disagreed with the compensation I had proposed in my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In BOIs response to my provisional decision it explained why it thought Mr M should  have 
checked whether  his deposit had successfully credited his bond account.  It felt, in not doing 
Ref: DRN52455132so, he hadnt taken reasonable steps  to mitigate his loss. But Ive already  outlined the 
reasons why I dont  agree  with this in my provisional  decision.
In summary,  Mr M had followed guidance  given by BOI about the possibility of transferring 
funds to his bond by direct debit. He was entitled  to rely on the advice hed been given. And, 
as I mentioned in my provisional decision,  Im not persuaded he had reason to doubt 
whether his instructions to transfer  money  would  be carried out. 
Mr M had intended to fund his bond account with a one off deposit payment.  Even  though 
that sum was large, he was happy to tie his money up in this bond for three  years. This 
wasnt an account with deposits or withdrawals. So, I dont  think  it would be reasonable to 
expect him to check it on a regular  basis. Ultimately, Mr Ms money wasnt transferred due to 
errors BOI made. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to criticise him for not logging  into his 
account in those circumstances.
Mr M doesnt agree that opening  a bond in November was advantageous  to him. But in my 
provisional decision I explained the rationale upon  which this argument is based.  I remain  
persuaded that he was able to add to the money  he intended to invest in his original bond.  
Im satisfied this was advantageous to him because the November bond had the same 
interest rate as the original bond,  which had been a three year bond. The November bond  
was a shorter term investment for 12 months.  Itll mature sooner and this means  Mr M can 
access his money quicker than if it had been  locked  away in the original bond he had wanted  
to open. 
Mr M said he doesnt require access to his money  for some years and that he intends to 
reinvest it once his bond matures. But, I dont think that argument changes anything  here.  
And, overall,  I remain satisfied that Mr M invested more  money  and that it cost him less. This 
is something I have to bear in mind in order  to be fair to both Mr M and BOI.
In my provisional decision I explained  the difficulties this case  brought  in relation to demining 
an appropriate award of compensation. Our investigator felt Mr M had obtained a better  deal 
overall by investing  his funds in a 12 month product. But I didnt think  it was possible to draw  
that conclusion.  And I explained why it was artificial  and unfair  to draw direct comparisons 
between both bonds as they were entirely  different  products.  
Instead, I felt that the fairest way to put matters right for Mr M would be to think about what 
he could have done with the money  that wasnt transferred to his bond  in early 2018.  He 
could have invested it in an instant access saving  account, which wouldve offered a 
preferential interest rate to the 0.1% interest rate his money earned while it wasnt invested 
in the bond product. 
With that in mind, I asked  BOI what Mr Ms money could have earned had it been moved to 
an instant access saving  account. BOI told our service that had Mr Ms money been invested  
in an account  of that type it couldve earned a headline interest AER of 1.05 %. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that this wouldnt have been  typical of what was available 
across the market at the relevant time.  
In my provisional decision I directed BOI to pay Mr M the interest  that his money  would have 
earned had the money from his bond been  invested  in an instant  access saving account. I 
told it to deduct  from that sum any interest it already  paid him while his money was sat in the 
holding account.  Neither BOI nor Mr M agrees with this approach. 
Ref: DRN52455133Mr M says he wouldnt have  invested  his money  in an instant access  savings account and 
BOI feels  its unfair to tell it to pay the interest  shortfall. But, due to the difficulties in 
calculating an appropriate award  of compensation, I remain persuaded that this is the fairest 
way to compensate  Mr M for what happened here.
Its clear from Mr Ms response to my provisional  decision that he doesnt feel £150  
compensation is fair to recognise the trouble and upset he was caused by BOIs errors. Ive 
carefully considered  what hes said here. But I remain persuaded that the amount BOIs 
already offered is reasonable and consistent  with our approach in similar scenarios. So, I 
wont be directing  BOI to pay any further  compensation amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should calculate  
what interest Mr M would  have earned  had the money from his bond  been invested in the 
online saver  that was available at the time. It should  then deduct  from that sum any interest it 
already paid him while his money was sat in the holding account. In addition, Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc should pay Mr M £150  compensation to put things  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52455134copy provisional  decision  30 July 2019
complaint
Mr M complains that when his bond  matured, Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc didnt  follow his
instructions to transfer money from that account to his new bond. He is also unhappy it didnt
tell him that his money hadnt  been transferred.
background
On 22 February 2018 Mr M applied  online  for a three year bond  with Bank of Ireland (UK)
Plc, hereafter referred to as BOI. This bond  had an interest  rate of 1.9%. He had held a
previous bond  with BOI that had matured and in which he had almost £87,000. He wanted to
transfer all of that money in that bond to his new one.
Mr M says he experienced  some  difficulties when he tried to open his new bond online. So,
he telephoned BOIs customer service department the same  day and was given guidance by
them. Mr M then received an email from BOI welcoming him to his new account  and
thanking him for his deposit.
Mr M said he didnt  hear anything further about  the matter.  But when he received a letter
about his new bond it quoted the wrong  interest rate. So he telephoned BOI to query  this.
And when  he spoke to an adviser he was told that the interest rate related to the holding
account that his funds  had been  transferred to after his previous bond had matured. BOI
explained that Mr Ms money  hadnt been transferred to his new bond. So his funds were still
sitting in the holding account.  After  Mr M became aware of this he took action by opening a
one year bond and paying  £106,000  into it.
When Mr M complained to BOI about  what had happened he said he thought  it shouldve
told him his money  hadnt credited his new bond.  After BOI investigated Mr Ms complaint it
accepted it had made an error as it had given him the wrong information over the telephone.
It said it shouldve told Mr M that it wasnt possible to transfer  funds from his account  to an
online bond. BOI also said he shouldve been  told to proceed with his online application  and
contact customer services  once he knew his new account number. It said that a BOI
representative could  then have manually transferred his funds into his new account. BOI
said it had also made a second  error because it shouldve sent an email to Mr M to remind
him to fund his account. It accepted this email had been overlooked.
Mr M remained unhappy with BOIs  response to his complaint and referred  it to our service.
Our investigator empathised with Mr M and agreed that BOI hadnt acted fairly here. They
recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld and that BOI should pay him £150 to
recognise what had happened. But Mr M disagreed  with our investigators  view. He thought
BOI was responsible  for the interest he had lost in his funds not being transferred to his new
bond. So, he felt it should also compensate him more  to reflect his loss here and he asked
for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im departing from what
our investigator has said. Ill explain why
Ref: DRN52455135BOI told our service  it made two errors here.  Its first error was the information  it gave Mr M
during his telephone  conversation with a BOI representative on 22 February 2018. And its
second error was not sending Mr M a reminder  email explaining that he still needed to fund
his account.
In relation to its first error, BOI says the reason Mr M couldnt transfer his money to his new
bond was because it isnt possible to transfer  funds from the account Mr M had to an online
bond. It explained that only online easy savers  have the facility to do this and this wasnt the
account Mr M held. BOI has accepted  Mr M shouldve been informed that once he had
opened his new three year bond he shouldve contacted customer services again  and that
an agent couldve processed the transfer  he had wanted to make manually. And it has
accepted responsibility in giving Mr M the wrong information.
Mr M disagrees with the reason BOI say his money  couldnt be transferred to his three year
online bond  from the savings account he held. He says this because he transferred money
successfully in this way in November 2018.  But while he may have been able to transfer
money successfully on other  occasions, the issue here is Mr Ms inability to make the
specific transfer in February 2018,  which is the subject of this complaint.  Its clear that
irrespective of the reason BOI werent able to transfer Mr Ms money he was prevented from
investing his money  as he wanted.  This wasnt his fault.
After Mr M tried to transfer his funds to his new bond he received  payment confirmation,
which said he should allow nine business  days for his deposit to show  in his new account. I
can see that on the same day BOI sent Mr M a letter, which clearly states the account
number and sort code  of his new account.  It also sent him an email  headed  welcome  to
your new account. This email thanked him for opening his three  year online bond and his
deposit. It explained that it was processing  his deposit and would send confirmation by post
to acknowledge  those  funds once they had credited Mr Ms account. The email also gave
him instructions on how he could  access his account online and it provided him with the
contact details of BOIs  helpdesk should he need to make any enquires.
BOI say the email Mr M received was automated. But Mr M wasnt  to know that. And I can
understand why this email, and the letter Mr M had received, made  him think  his new
account had been opened successfully. I think, in the circumstances, the written
communication he was sent reasonably created a legitimate expectation in Mr Ms mind that
his money had been transferred to his new account. And I think  that, having given Mr M 
incorrect information, BOI ought to have done  more to inform  him that his instructions to
transfer funds from his previous saving account hadnt been  successful.
BOI accept that an email  shouldve been  sent to Mr M to explain his transfer  hadnt  been
successful. But theres no evidence it was sent. I say this because it hasnt been able to
provide proof or an audit trail to confirm that an email of this nature was sent to Mr M. So, its
offered to compensate him £150  to recognise this oversight.
Its clear that Mr M was able to log into his account to check  whether the money he had tried
to deposit had credited his new account.  And I appreciate that it could be argued that theres
responsibility on the part of Mr M to log into his account to check that the money he had
wanted to transfer  had successfully credited his new account  particularly given he had
wanted to transfer  a very large  sum and hadnt received confirmation that this money had
reached his new account.
But Ive taken into account that this was money  that Mr M was intending to lock away  for a
Ref: DRN52455136three year period. And Mr M says he had no reason to doubt that his money had been
received. So I dont think it was unreasonable for him not to have logged  into his new
account online or contact  BOI until he received the letter he did with the holding  account
interest rate information on it. If he had logged on to his account online or checked its status
with BOI its likely he wouldve discovered  that his money hadnt  credited his new bond. But,
as BOI has accepted,  Mr Ms money wasnt transferred  due to errors it made. So Im not
persuaded it would be fair to criticise him for not logging into his account  in those
circumstances.
My role is to determine this complaint in line with whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances. With this in mind Ive thought very carefully about the fairest  way to put
matters right for Mr M.
I understand that Mr M has now applied for a different bond product,  which  is for a fixed 12
month term with an interest  rate of 1.90%.  I can see hes also been  able to add to the money
hes invested. This was to Mr Ms advantage  as it meant he was able to invest  more money
into his bond.  And he was able to do so at a bond interest rate, here 1.90%, as opposed to
an instant savings rate.
The second  advantage Mr M derived was that he was able to benefit from the same interest
rate but at less cost to him. What I mean by this is that the new bond doesnt lock away Mr
Ms funds for as long as the bond  he had wanted to transfer his money  into in February 2018
and it attracts the same interest rate. So, Mr Ms new bond has the same interest rate as the
three year bond and its a shorter term investment. Itll mature sooner and this means hes
able to access his money  quicker.
Determining an appropriate  award of compensation here isnt straightforward.  Our
investigator felt Mr M had obtained  a better  deal overall by investing in a 12 month product.
But Im not persuaded its possible to draw that conclusion. I say this because it would be
artificial and unfair to compare what are, essentially,  different products.
The consequence of the BOIs error(s) was that almost £87,000 was left earning 0.1% for
several months, without  Mr Ms knowledge.  BOI told our service that if the transfer had been
successful in February 2018 his funds would have credited  his new bond  account on 5
March 2018.
Im satisfied that if Mr M had known that his money  had been  transferred to a holding
account, he wouldve  been able to move  and invest it somewhere else at a better rate, even
without tying it up. I think  Mr M acted quite promptly on realising BOIs error and, so, Im
persuaded that if he had known in February 2018  that his money hadnt been  transferred
hed have taken  action straightaway.
Mr M transferred his money  to a new bond product in November  2018.  So theres a period of
almost nine months when  his funds were earning  only 0.1%. But, in the interests of fairness,
I have to balance  this with the fact that had access to this money while it was languishing in
the holding account. I also have to bear in mind that hes been able to derive the advantages
Ive mentioned above.
Ive thought about what else Mr M could have done with the money that was transferred to
the holding account. He could have invested it in an instant  access saving account. This
wouldve offered  a preferential interest  rate to the 0.1% interest rate the holding account
gave him. Had he chosen  to transfer  his money  to an instant access  saving account Im
persuaded he wouldve, most likely,  kept his money  within BOI. I say this because, in
February 2018, he had intended to move his funds to three year BOI bond and, in November
Ref: DRN524551372018, he successfully  transferred  his money to a different BOI bond.
With this in mind Ive asked BOI what Mr Ms money could have earned had it been moved
to an instant access saving account  instead  of to the holding  account. Its told our service
that for the amount Mr Ms bond  had held he couldve  earned a headline interest AER of
1.05 % had it been invested in the online saver account that it offered at that time. Im
satisfied this wouldve  been typical of what was available across the market at the relevant
time.
BOI has already paid Mr M 0.1%  interest  on the money that was within  the holding account.
So I think it should pay Mr M the difference between that amount and what  BOI wouldve
paid him had he invested his money in the online saver account  it offered in March 2018.  Im
persuaded this is the fairest way to put matters right here for the reasons stated above.
I recognise that Mr M has been inconvenienced and caused distress by this experience. And
I can appreciate the time it has taken him to bring  this complaint to our service and to the
attention of BOI. To reflect what happened  as a result of BOIs errors I think an award of
compensation is warranted. So, BOI should pay Mr M the £150 compensation its offered to
pay to resolve his complaint. Im satisfied  that this is a reasonable amount, which is in line
with our approach  in similar scenarios.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc
should calculate what interest Mr M would have earned had the money from his bond been
invested in the online saver that was available at the time.  It should then deduct from that
sum any interest it already paid him while his money was sat in the holding account.  In
addition, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Mr M £150 compensation to put things right.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either  party has anything further to add  before considering  my
decision on this complaint once more.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5245513