K821x#15Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a credit card. Mrs C says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  mis-sold 
her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs C has told us that she wasnt in a good place  when  she took out the card and the PPI 
policy, and so she feels she was taken advantage of. Ive considered what shes  told us 
about her personal  circumstances  and while I acknowledge this must  have been  a difficult 
time for her I still think Barclays  made  it clear that she didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it out. I say this because the PPI policy was taken out via a postal 
application  so Mrs C was free to complete the application in her own space and time and 
without any influence from anyone  from Barclays. Ive looked closely  at this form and I can 
see that there is a tick in the yes box for PPI. There is nothing  to state that this box had to 
be ticked, so if Mrs C didnt want the PPI or if she didnt know what it was she couldve left 
the box blank.  Mrs C then signed the application  so I think this reflected what she wanted at 
the time.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Mrs C says that nothing  about the policy was explained to her. Ive thought about this and 
think its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
Mrs C also says she had 6 months full followed by 3 months half sick pay from her employer, 
so she didnt need the PPI. The policy however  wouldve  covered 10% of her outstanding 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months.  And this wouldve  been  in addition  to her sick pay 
entitlement, so these  funds couldve been used for other expenses.  Mrs C has also told us 
that she didnt  have any savings or other  means to keep up her repayments. So I still think  
the PPI wouldve been useful for her and overall  I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:  
Ref: DRN54125002Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5412500