K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1997. Ms S says Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Ms S says she was told taking 
the PPI would help her mortgage application,  but she hasnt  given us much more detail 
about what happened or what was said at the time. And Bank  of Scotland hasnt been able 
to send us any documents  from the sale showing Ms S chose to take the PPI. Due to the 
amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont  think  this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Bank  of Scotland  made Ms S think she had to 
have the PPI. So I think its likely Bank  of Scotland made it clear  to Ms S that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Ms S chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Ms S has said that her mortgage  was mis-sold  and so says its likely  that her PPI was mis-
sold too. But the Financial Ombudsman  Service looks  at each complaint separately,  on its 
own merits. And I dont think Bank  of Scotland accepting  that Ms Ss mortgage was mis-sold 
makes it significantly more  likely  that the PPI was mis-sold. So I still think  its likely Bank of 
Scotland made it clear to Ms S that she had a choice about the PPI, as I explained above.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Ms S, so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, Ms S doesnt  appear to have  been affected  by any of the likely exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes  told us 
she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay.
Ms S has said that her partner wouldve helped her with her repayments  and that she had 
significant equity  in her house so couldve borrowed more money if needed.  But peoples 
financial circumstances can change, so her partner  might not have been able to help her 
when she needed  it. The policy wouldve meant she didnt need  to rely on her partner or 
taking out further  borrowing in order to make her mortgage repayments. So I still think  it was 
right for her.
As well as checking it was right for her, Bank of Scotland had to give Ms S clear information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Ms Ss property couldve been at risk 
if she wasnt making her repayments.  So I think the protection  the policy offered wouldve 
been appealing to her. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the 
PPI would have  been useful for Ms S if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN54763362affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Ms S off taking it 
out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5476336