K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that in 2013/2014, he instructed Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  to close all his 
accounts but they failed  to do so. In particular and unbeknown to him, an account was left 
open and over time overdraft charges have been applied to it. He wants  them waiving.
background
I wont repeat all the investigators  background summary because it covers  the issues and I 
want to avoid repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because  Ive ignored it, 
but because I dont think its relevant.  
In summary,  Mr M has said that following  an accident resulting in him stopping  work he 
decided to move to Portugal  for health reasons. Prior to leaving he instructed Lloyds to close 
all his accounts. In fact only his Platinum Mastercard, his Business account  and his Halifax  
credit card were closed. His joint current account and his current  account remained open.  
But in January 2018, he was notified  that he was close to the overdraft limit on his account. 
Although he initially  thought it was a fraud on further investigation he found  out that the 
account remained open and there was a direct  debit payment going out each month. Mr M 
complained about Lloyds  new overdraft  charging  structure and that his address had not 
been updated.
Lloyds upheld the complaint and paid £298 into his account to cover the cost of his calls and 
for the inconvenience,  and also a further  £133.89  by way of refund of charges applied  
between the 2 November 2017  and 19 February 2018. In a second final response letter  
Lloyds said that in fact they did have an up to date address  for Mr M and so for their error in 
the giving  the wrong  information  in their first final response, they paid Mr M a further £50 into 
his account. Lloyds also confirmed that the reason the account had not been closed in 
2013/14 was that there  was a debit  balance on it at that time. They also said that as the 
account had been used,  then in line with their terms and conditions the charges had been 
correctly applied.
Mr M was unhappy with Lloyds response and so an investigator from this service  looked into 
the complaint  and accepted that there  had been failings in the level of service but found that 
the level of recompense offered to Mr M was fair and reasonable. As Mr M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether the Bank acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt 
with Mr A. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been  achieved. I do 
not perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for 
financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct that they change  their processes. That falls 
under the remit  of the Financial Conduct Authority. Equally we are not a court  service.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
Ref: DRN56982802that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. Looking at the available evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. 
The first issue is whether the accounts which remained  open should have been closed. I 
appreciate Mr M gave instructions to Lloyds to close them all but as one had a debit balance 
of £900 on it at the time it is highly improbable  that Lloyds would have agreed to close  it. I 
can understand that Mr M might have assumed it would be closed as he had instructed them 
to do that, but ultimately it is each customers responsibility to manage their own financial 
affairs. So, on a balance of probabilities  I find it is likely Mr M would have known the account 
remained open since there was a direct  debit going out of it and he would most likely have 
known that he had not cleared the debit balance. Consequently Lloyds were entitled  to apply 
the charges to the account.
I can see that Lloyds  did in fact refund the increased new overdraft charges for the period 
November 2017  to February 2018,  so this effectively puts Mr M back in the position he would 
have been had he received the notice of the change to the charging structure. I can also see 
that in February  2018 Lloyds told Mr M that the new overdraft charges would be applied  to 
his account in May 2018.
I know Mr M believes that these charges are unfair and I do appreciate that they are a lot of 
money. However, in November 2009 the Supreme  Court issued a ruling on current account 
charges, which  said that charges cant generally  be challenged for unfairness  only because 
a customer thinks they are too high, or unfair. - provided they are set out in the terms and 
conditions. So banks  and building societies dont have to make  refunds of charges and 
interest if they have  been applied in line with the terms and conditions applicable to an 
account. Therefore  I dont  think that Lloyds has made any errors in how it has applied the 
charges since it has done  so in line with those terms and conditions and the correct notice of 
change was also given  and received by Mr M.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision  but I have  come  to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  I do not think that Lloyds need to do any more  as 
I dont think they have treated Mr M unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5698280