K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint is that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to help 
him when  he fell victim to a scam. He also doesnt think  NatWest  provided him with good 
customer service  when  dealing with his concerns as he says they gave him incorrect  
information about whether his money  would be refunded to him.
background
On 31 March 2019, Mr N made a payment  of £205 from his NatWest  current account to buy 
a computer monitor he had found  via a buying  and selling website.
When he didnt receive the item, and he was unable  to get in contact with the seller,  Mr N 
realised that hed actually made the payment to a scammer. Mr N contacted his bank, 
NatWest, on 10 April 2019 to tell them what had happened, and to see if there  was anything 
they could do to help. NatWest contacted the scammers bank straight away to see if any of 
Mr Ns money  could  be retrieved. But unfortunately, the scammers bank confirmed that no 
money remained from Mr Ns transactions.
Mr N was unhappy with how NatWest handled things, so he referred  his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, she explained to Mr N that she felt 
NatWest had done all they could to try and help,  so she didnt think  they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr N disagrees;  in particular he says that NatWest told him on two separate  occasions that 
hed be getting  a refund of his lost money, before finally confirming  it couldnt  guarantee a 
refund. He thinks NatWest should  honour what it originally said and refund the £205  to him.
Because this complaint couldnt be resolved  informally,  its now been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
Having done so, I think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave 
Mr Ns account. And I think it took appropriate  steps  to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I dont think it needs  to reimburse Mr N with the £205 he lost. Ill 
explain why in more  detail.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  When Mr N made the payment, he didnt know he was 
dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money  in good faith. This means that  at the time  
Ref: DRN55287702he wanted the payment to go ahead and authorised it to be made. And I have  taken that into 
account when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and   
regulated firms  like NatWest  are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr N when he made  the payment of £205,  or whether it should have done more  than it 
did. 
Having thought carefully about this, I dont  think there was anything  unusual about the 
payment that would have suggested  to NatWest that Mr N was being scammed.  The type of 
payment that Mr N made wasnt  particularly out of character  for him  hed made payments 
of the same  type and of similar  or higher amounts before. So having reviewed Mr Ns 
account activity  in the months leading up to the transaction I dont think the payment was 
sufficiently suspicious to indicate to NatWest that it wasnt legitimate. Which means that, in 
Ref: DRN55287703the circumstances, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong by following the instructions    
Mr N gave and sending  the money.
And when  Mr N told NatWest that he had been  scammed, they acted quickly,  contacting the 
scammers bank  straightaway to see if any of Mr Ns money was still in the receiving account 
and could be retrieved.  Unfortunately, by that time, all of Mr Ns money had gone  the 
receiving bank has told us that the scammer withdrew all of Mr Ns money  on 1 April 2019,  
over a week before Mr N contacted NatWest to say he had been scammed. So unfortunately 
there wasnt anything  more NatWest could do to help Mr N at that stage.
I appreciate that Mr N feels NatWest gave  him incorrect information  about being able to 
recover his funds and should honour what they told him. Ive looked  carefully  at the evidence 
we have to show  what might have been said to Mr N. NatWest has been able to give us one 
call recording  from the day when Mr N reported the scam to them,  and during that call the 
staff member Mr N spoke  to explained  that they could not guarantee whether  they would be 
able to retrieve his money  from the beneficiary bank.  
However, its clear from the call recording that Mr N was transferred to that staff member  
(who was in the fraud team) after speaking to another member of NatWest  staff first. We 
dont have any recording of that that earlier conversation, and I acknowledge that it is 
possible Mr N was given incorrect information  in that earlier  part of the call and could well 
have been told he would  receive a refund. But I also have to bear in mind that it appears any 
incorrect impression Mr N was given by NatWest was corrected very quickly, as the fraud 
team confirmed the correct process  when  Mr N was transferred to them.  So, while  I 
appreciate that it will have been  frustrating  to Mr N to be given incorrect  information,  I think  it 
would have been quickly made  clear  that this was an error. And importantly, I dont think       
Mr N being given incorrect  information  means  that NatWest should  refund the money Mr N 
lost to the scammer.
Its unfortunate that Mr N has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
NatWest should  have done more  to prevent Mr N losing his money. I cant hold NatWest 
responsible for Mr N having  fallen victim to a scam,  and I think they did all they could to help 
him once  they knew what had happened.  So, I dont  think it would be fair to ask NatWest to 
compensate Mr N for his loss. I also dont think that any incorrect information NatWest told 
Mr N when he first contacted them means  they need  to make a compensation payment to 
him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5528770