K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss T have complained about the way U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) dealt with 
their claim under  their motor policy.
As Miss T has mostly been the main correspondent with us and with UKI, I shall just refer to 
her for the sake of ease. 
background
In January 2018, Miss Ts car was involved in an accident with another  driver. So she made 
a claim to UKI. Her car was a cherished one, which I dont quite believe was in the vintage 
category but nonetheless it is fairly old and certainly  cherished. However, it was insured on a 
standard motor  policy, which merely insures  the market value of the car.
Miss T didnt want to pay the excess of £250 when  she claimed, as she believed the other 
driver was at fault.  However  whilst UKI was in contact at that time with the other  driver,  it 
couldnt progress  this because the other  driver hadnt reported the incident.
Miss T wasnt  happy with this delay and complained. UKI explained in March 2018,  the 
process it was undertaking and which it normally undertook as regards claims. However, she 
remained unhappy and complained again.  UKI then acknowledged it hadnt updated her 
because now the other  driver had accepted liability and it hadnt  sent clear  instructions to its 
approved repairers  to progress her claim. It offered £250 compensation, which Miss T 
returned. 
Then approved repairer collected  the car, initially, it thought it might  be repairable  but then 
when it physically examined it, it decided it wasnt economical to repair. So Miss Ts car was 
then deemed to be a total loss with a market value of £1,380,  less the excess.
Miss T then asked for a cash settlement so she could arrange  for the car to be repaired 
herself. The car was also returned to her. However, she said the exhaust had been 
damaged whilst the car was at the approved  repairers, which UKI should now pay for. UKI 
said it would  do this, if it received a report showing  it wasnt damaged  in the accident. It also 
said it would  pay £25 for the calls she had to make. Miss T refused this compensation.
Miss T remained  unhappy and brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator was of the view 
UKI had dealt with things  fairly and she didnt  think it needed to do anymore more. Miss T 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not asking UKI to do 
anything further.  Ill now explain  why. 
I do appreciate and understand Miss Ts car was a cherished car. I also understand how 
frustrating it is to have  to deal with a claim,  which wasnt caused  by anything Miss T or 
indeed Mr G did, but instead by the other  driver.  I can see from the file how upset both Miss 
T and Mr G are about  this, but my role here is merely to consider whether  UKI processed the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions in the policy and see whether its done  anything 
wrong. And if it has done something wrong, whether its done enough to put things right.
Ref: DRN56085122So I will now deal with the issues that I consider to be important and key in this dispute.
First, I am of the view on the basis of the evidence from the engineer who physically 
examined the car, that the decision to write this car off was not unreasonable  based on the 
damage caused by the accident. I appreciate the other quotes Miss T got from other 
repairers, which were lower in the costs of the repairs, but I am more persuaded by UKIs 
engineer. 
As the car was insured on a standard market value  basis,  and understandably  Miss T 
wanted to keep the car, the cash value she asked for, is dependent  on the market valuation.  
UKI didnt  show us that it used the usual  trade  guides to assess the market value which are 
the only guides this service  considers  appropriate to properly value motor  vehicles. This is 
because they show the actual selling  prices and not the advertised prices and we consider 
that the actual  selling prices as listed in these guides to be cogent proof of a cars market 
value. So as the adjudicator explained, she then accessed these  trade guides herself and 
found UKIs market  value  to be fair. I agree  it is fair at £1,380, less the excess, based on the 
guides.
That market  valuation figure was given to Miss T by UKI in August 2018.  Given  this, I also 
consider its right the total loss marker  stays on the car. 
As its clear Miss T is able to get the car repaired (and no doubt  has already) for less 
possibly than this market value,  I consider then shes at an advantage doing this and 
keeping the total loss amount, which UKI are happy  to pay her. That is my view is 
reasonable.
Turning now to the exhaust damage,  which  Miss T firmly believes was caused  by UKIs 
repairers. UKI have  offered to inspect this or alternatively have some other evidence to show  
why it wasnt caused in the accident.  I consider that was a reasonable response by UKI. 
However, it should be noted that it wasnt noticed  during the physical inspection by UKIs 
engineer and is not listed as being  either pre-accident  damage or accident damage.  
However now with the passage  of time,  it may be more difficult  to clarify this. But, I would 
expect UKI to use its best endeavours  to assess this, assuming Miss T now has had the 
exhaust repaired. This is should be possible from the repair invoice and the original damage 
estimation provided  by UKI.
As regards  UKIs claims handling, this was hampered by Miss Ts initial refusal  to pay the 
excess. Paying  the excess is a contract term between  every policyholder  and every  motor 
insurer. Its also an uninsured loss, which means either the policyholder pays  it or the 
policyholder gets the other  drivers insurers to pay it. Its actually not something insured 
under a motor  policy like this one. Often  insurers will sort this out on behalf of the 
policyholder once the other drivers insurers have admitted liability,  but they dont  have to do 
this. 
Here initially  UKI couldnt do any of those things because the other  driver hadnt  admitted 
liability. Therefore, UKI was hampered by the lack of the agreement  for Miss T to pay the 
excess. That delayed  things in my opinion  and that wasnt UKIs  fault.  Nevertheless, UKI 
offered Miss T £250 compensation for its delays, which it detailed  in its letter to her of 13 
August 2018 and I consider this is reasonable. It is more than I would have awarded had UKI 
not done so. Miss T returned this compensation.
Ref: DRN56085123It subsequently offered  Miss T £25 towards  the cost of the calls she had had to make. Miss T 
refused this compensation also.
I consider the fact that UKI offered and indeed paid compensation  to be reasonable. It is of 
course Miss Ts right then to either refuse  it or return it. But Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for UKI to have offered  it.
Lastly, when a car is written off in a situation like this, this means  the insured event under 
the policy has occurred.  That in turn means the whole premium  upon which the policy was 
initiated is payable.  Thats the law. Therefore, as UKI are paying  the market  value of the 
insured car, there can be no return of premium.  The premium is not refundable for any of 
these service type issues, which Miss T complained about, as only compensation can do 
that.
So given UKI has offered  Miss T compensation, I consider it doesnt have to do anymore.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5608512