K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a Platinum  Added Value Account (PAVA)  by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mr B held a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA)  with Lloyds from 1998. This account 
incurred a monthly fee.
Mr B upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) in June 2002 which  also 
incurred a monthly fee.
Lloyds has said that the GAVA was mis-sold and has offered Mr B redress as a result. But 
Lloyds has said that the PAVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Bs complaint and decided that Lloyds response  was fair and 
reasonable. Mr B disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.
Lloyds has upheld Mr Bs complaint  about the GAVA  and offered the redress that this 
service would require,  so I dont need  to look into that. 
But Mr B also says the PAVA  was mis-sold. In my view, I dont agree and Ill explain why.
Mr B says he chose to take out the PAVA because Lloyds told him it was the only way he 
could increase his overdraft.
So I need to consider whether or not Mr B was aware the PAVA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in taking  the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
Mr B had previously had a GAVA which had lower  fees for overdrafts than a free account. 
So I think he would already have been  familiar  with fee paying accounts  and the benefits 
they provided in relation to overdrafts.  I can see from his statements that he had benefitted 
from these prior to the PAVA sale. 
Mr B was clearly interested in continuing to run an overdraft. With his prior experience  of 
borrowing money I think its more  likely  than not that Mr B wouldve been aware that 
increasing his overdraft wasnt the only way he could borrow  money  from Lloyds or 
elsewhere if he needed it. So I think Lloyds discussed with him that the PAVA  provided  
better rates for running an overdraft and this appealed  to him.
Ref: DRN58681162I can see from his PAVA  statements that he didnt make significant use of an increased  
overdraft for several months after opening the PAVA. So I dont think  he had an immediate 
financial demand that drove him to take the PAVA  when he didnt need to.
So I think Mr B was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the PAVA.
Lloyds advised  Mr B to take out the PAVA.  So, Lloyds needed  to provide Mr B with sufficient 
information about the PAVA to make  an informed choice. And in recommending  the PAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps  to ensure that the PAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Bs 
circumstances.
The PAVA contained a range of benefits including AA breakdown cover,  worldwide travel 
insurance and sentinel  card protection. And it offered better rates  for overdrafts. 
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr B about the PAVA but I think  it 
wouldve been of interest to him as he had previously  had a GAVA  that he says hed been 
happy with. He was familiar with the fee paying  bank account type of product and its benefits 
and the PAVA  benefits were useful to him in his circumstances. Lloyds has provided  
evidence that he used the car breakdown cover and travelled  abroad  making  him eligible for 
the worldwide travel  insurance. He also benefited from the better  overdraft rates.
So in my view the PAVA was suitable for Mr B. And there was no information  that he didnt 
receive from Lloyds that would likely  have put him off taking  the PAVA. So I dont think  Mr B 
lost out by taking  out the PAVA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5868116