K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (which Ill refer to as Tesco Bank) placed a 
CIFAS marker  against  his name. CIFAS  is the UKs  fraud  alert service. 
background
Mr N opened an account with Tesco Bank  in early 2015. Hes explained though  that he had 
difficulty using it; his PIN didnt work and so he couldnt use the payment card, and he had 
similar difficulties  with online access. He used his old account (which  was still open) instead. 
The banks records show that a temporary  security  number  was issued in November 2015, 
so that Mr N could access  his online account. 
In October  2016 a payment of £150  was made to Mr Ns account.  Almost all of it was 
transferred the same  day to an account which appeared to be in Mr Ns name and to a third 
party. This was followed  by credits from Mr N and further withdrawals. 
Tesco Bank was later told that the first credit had been fraudulent. The holder of the account 
from which it had been sent hadnt  authorised  the payment. Tesco Bank  closed Mr Ns 
account and placed a CIFAS marker against  Mr Ns name. 
Mr N didnt find out about the marker until April 2018. He complained to Tesco Bank  and 
then to this service. Our investigator  took the view that Tesco  Bank ought to have  done  more 
to ascertain the true position before placing the CIFAS marker  and specifically it should  
have contacted Mr N to get his side of the story.  He concluded nevertheless  that Tesco  Bank 
was justified in placing the marker,  and so didnt recommend that Tesco  Bank arrange for its 
removal or take any other steps. 
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review  
the case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  outcome  as the investigator did. 
It would have been relatively simple  for someone  to pay money into Mr Ns account. All that 
would be needed  was his sort code and account number. But the banks records  show that 
money was removed from his account  on the day after the credit was made by faster 
payments and a cash machine withdrawal. Those records also show  that the faster  
payments were made  using its banking app. That could only have been set up using Mr Ns 
online banking details  and security information. So, either someone else had that information  
and set up the app or Mr N set it up and someone was able to get hold of his phone  and 
open the app. And the cash machine withdrawal could only have been made using the 
genuine card and PIN.  
I think it most unlikely that someone  would have been able to do that without Mr Ns 
knowledge and cooperation.  I think it more likely that Mr N was more  closely involved than 
he has been prepared  to say. 
Ref: DRN53248982I must therefore consider whether this justified Tesco  Banks actions in registering Mr Ns 
details with CIFAS. Its principles say that there must  be reasonable grounds to believe that a 
fraud or other financial  crime has been  committed and that the evidence  must be such  that 
the member (here, Tesco  Bank)  could confidently report  the matter  to the police. In my view, 
those standards  are met here. Its not a requirement that the matter  actually be reported to 
the police  or that the police investigate.
For the sake of completeness, I believe too that Tesco Bank was justified in closing  Mr Ns 
account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Tesco  Personal  
Finance plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Ns complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 2 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5324898