K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Co-operative Bank plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policy taken out by Mr F in 1997  with a 
mortgage. The policy was taken out during a meeting and covered him against 
unemployment. The policy was free for the first 12 months. The policy and mortgage ended 
in or before November 2002.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.  
I have decided to not uphold Mr Fs complaint,  for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr F during the meeting when it was 
sold. But Ive looked at what Mr F has said about  how the policy  was sold,  that he didnt 
need the policy and also took into consideration the sales documentation  used at the 
time.
The sales forms used suggest to me that the policy was presented as optional. Britannia  
has provided a separate MPPI application  form that Mr F has signed. It looks most likely 
when I see the details given on this form that he was given a choice by a representative 
from Britannia in the meeting. Although I do have regard  for what Mr F has said, 
recollections do fade over time. Based on the documentation I have seen, I am 
persuaded he was given  a choice during the meeting. 
Moving on, I think Britannia recommended  the MPPI to Mr F, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr F 
says he had 6 months  full and 6 months half sick pay with his employer but I consider 
the policy would have been  useful  in any extended period of unemployment. I am 
persuaded he would have  found  the benefit  provided useful if he needed it. I also 
couldnt find anything  else within the policy terms that would have made it unsuitable for 
him such as a restrictive or significant  term.
Britannia has provided some information  about the costs relating to the MPPI that         
Mr F took out and although I dont know for sure if these  were  disclosed clearly, I dont 
think it would have  made any difference to the choice Mr F made even if it had for the 
reasons I have already given. The policy was reasonably priced compared to similar 
policies available  at the time and to the monthly  mortgage repayment and Mr F could 
have cancelled the MPPI if it did become  unaffordable.
Ref: DRN57211612Mr F says that he doesnt  believe he was given a reminder or an opportunity to cancel 
the policy after the 12 month  free period came  to an end. He says this is something 
Britannia didnt  do at that time and that it was a clerical error on their behalf. Britannia on 
the other hand has said it would  have done this and has provided a sample notice letter  
which it says it sent out to all of its policy  holders  when the 12 month free period was 
nearly up. I have  seen  this sample  letter and can see that Mr F would have had to 
complete a direct debit  mandate  at this point  and return  it to Britannia.  I cant  be sure 
what happened between the two parties. But after seeing the renewal letter and what  
was contained  in it, I cant fairly conclude that Mr F wasnt given a reminder  or given an 
opportunity to cancel  at this point. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, but in conclusion I do not uphold  his 
complaint for the reasons that I have  given.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5721161