K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained to us that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in or around  November  1994. 
Although Marks & Spencer sold the policy, Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken 
responsibility for the complaint.  For simplicity, Ill only refer to Allianz from now on.
background
Mrs W bought the policy  at the same time as taking out a charge card. I can see she 
applied for it by way of a leaflet application form.
She says she didnt know shed bought PPI and didnt need it.
Although it seems that the card application  was filled out on behalf of Mrs W, the policy was 
put in the name of Mr W at Mrs Ws request. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Because Mrs W disagreed  with the 
adjudicator her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mrs W says she didnt know she was buying  PPI. Ive looked  into this very carefully,  
looking at the sale paperwork  and thinking about what Mrs W has told us.
I think its clear  from the application  form that the policy  is optional.  Mrs W had to opt-in to 
taking it by ticking a box. The form also needed  to include the full name and date of birth, 
which Mrs W must have  provided because I see she nominated Mr W. If the policy wasnt 
optional, I wouldnt expect  to see a box that needed  to be ticked  to buy the cover.  
Mrs W also says that a member of staff filled out the form for her. Thats not unusual,  but 
Mrs W would  have had the opportunity  to check the application before signing. 
Although I can see that the form uses the words  strongly recommend, I dont think this 
implies the box had to be ticked. If anything, I think the use of the word recommend 
implies that there is a choice. Also, I dont think the use of the words  strongly recommend 
in this context amounts  to a personal  recommendation  that the policy was right for the 
person to be covered. So Allianz  didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable.  It did, 
however, have to give provide clear information  about the PPI so Mrs W could make  up her 
own mind about whether  to take it. In this instance,  Mrs W decided  to nominate  Mr W to be 
covered by the policy. 
Ref: DRN53823812Mrs W says that the section of the card application form relating to her husband had been 
crossed out but this was only I relation to the question of applying  for an additional card on 
the account. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The application form sets how the monthly cost of the policy  was 
calculated  but I cant see that it says this could attract  interest. And the monthly  benefit  
isnt clearly mentioned  either. But I dont think its likely that better information would have 
affected Mrs Ws decision to go ahead with the policy.
I say this because  I think  the PPI was useful to Mrs W, which  in this situation means that 
Mr W ought to have  been able to make  a successful claim on the policy.  From  what  Ive 
seen Mr W was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main  terms and 
conditions. 
Although Mr W was entitled to some  benefits  from his own employer if he was unable  to 
work  of around  6 months - the PPI could still pay out the benefit in addition to other 
sources of income  and up until the balance of the card was clear. So I dont  think better 
information wouldve  stopped Mrs W buying  it and putting the cover  in Mr Ws name. 
Ive taken into account Mrs and Mr Ws further  points to our adjudicator. Im satisfied that 
given the available evidence and information  Ive received from Mrs W, Mr W and Allianz, 
these points dont  change my conclusion. Im sorry to have disappoint Mrs and Mr W on this 
occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5382381