K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Vitality Health  Limited hasnt paid the full costs of his medical treatment. 
background
Mr T had private health insurance, provided  by his employer, with Vitality.  The policy  entitled  
him to cover  at a list of specific hospitals only. 
In August  2016,  Mr T arranged to have his gall bladder removed. Shortly  before his surgery  
was due to take place,  Mr Ts consultant  discovered  gall stones in his bile duct and advised 
they would  have to be removed before his gall bladder surgery could go ahead. The 
consultant arranged an appointment for Mr T to have his gall stones removed, at a different 
hospital which Ill call Clinic X, the next day. But when Mr T arrived for his appointment and 
called Vitality, the insurer said that it wouldnt be able to cover the full costs  of his treatment.
Vitality explained  that Clinic X wasnt one of the facilities that was covered under  Mr Ts 
policy, and said hed be liable  for a 40% co-payment towards  his treatment costs if he chose  
to be treated there. But Mr T said there  wasnt another hospital that could do that procedure 
within a reasonable distance, and told the insurer that he was having  his gall stones  
removed at Clinic X that day so his gall bladder  surgery could go ahead  as planned. 
Vitality agreed to raise  an internal query and see if one of the hospitals under the relevant list 
could do that procedure. It agreed to call Mr T back,  but before ending  the call, told Mr T that 
itd be unable to cover the full costs of his treatment at Clinic  X if it was able to find another  
hospital. It explained that, as things stood, Mr T would be liable for the co-payment if he went 
ahead and Mr T confirmed that he would be doing  so. Vitality said it hoped to have  a 
response for Mr T the following day. 
Mr T received a bill from Clinic X in February  2018,  asking  him to pay the remaining costs  of 
his treatment. He complained to Vitality at that point, and said the insurer hadnt told him 
hed incur a co-payment.
Vitality said it had told Mr T hed be liable for the co-payment, and explained it was unable  to 
waive it because there had been other eligible hospitals that carried  out that procedure. The 
insurer said it had tried to call Mr T back at the time, but didnt have his correct phone  
number so had written to him instead.
Unhappy with Vitalitys  response,  Mr T approached this service.  He said hed had no choice 
but to be treated at Clinic X, he hadnt received any letter from the insurer  and he didnt think 
his treatment at Clinic X would have cost Vitality any more than it would have done had he 
gone elsewhere. But our investigator said that Vitality had told Mr T hed be liable for a co-
payment, had tried to contact him, and had paid 60% of the costs  in line with his policy. 
She didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld, but Mr T disagreed. He said wed 
upheld cases in similar circumstances before, the insurer  hadnt  found any suitable  
alternatives for him and he didnt agree it was unable to contact him. 
Ref: DRN51462292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr T feels  weve upheld 
similar cases before, but each case is decided on its own individual  merit, and this decision 
is based on the specific circumstances of his case.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ts policy explain that Vitality will only cover treatment at 
hospitals included  on his policys hospital  list. They say:
Its important to choose the hospital  list that suits your individual requirements. You should 
only go to a hospital on your chosen list for your treatment  as youre only covered for 
treatment at those hospitals.  
If you decide to go to a hospital thats  not on your list, then youll  have to pay 40% of the 
costs of your treatment (excluding your specialists fees).
They also say:
We have a range of hospital lists to choose  from. Please  note that you must go to a hospital 
on your selected list for any treatment  that you need in order  for your eligible costs to be 
covered. We would advise that you always check on our website for the latest hospitals 
available to you based on your selected  hospital list. If you decide  to use a hospital not on 
your list for treatment that is otherwise eligible  under this plan, then we will not cover  your 
costs in full. Instead,  you will have to pay 40% of the costs  of your in-patient or out-patient  
treatment (excluding your specialists fees).
I appreciate that Mr T believes he had no choice but to go ahead  with his treatment at 
Clinic X, but that facility  wasnt  on his hospital list and Vitality told him hed be liable for 40% 
of his treatment costs because of that. Mr T has said that his treatment at Clinic X was 
unlikely to have  cost Vitality any more  than it would have done  had he gone elsewhere.  But 
his policy  is clear about the level of cover available if treatment is received at a hospital 
outside of the policy  list. 
Mr T also says that he doesnt believe Vitality  found  any alternative hospitals or tried to 
contact him, but the available evidence doesnt  reflect that. It shows that the insurer  did find 
alternatives and did try to call him. But it did, unfortunately, have the wrong  number for him. 
It also shows that a letter  was produced by the insurer and addressed to Mr T correctly, so 
its unfortunate that Mr T didnt go on to receive that. 
Its disappointing that Vitality wasnt able to call Mr T back  as agreed but, even  if it had done  
so, Im not persuaded that Mr T would have done anything  different.  I say this because  Mr T 
had made  it very clear to the insurer that he would be having  his treatment at Clinic X, and 
he told this service that he had no choice but to go ahead with it. 
I appreciate that Mr T must have found his particular circumstances difficult    he had gall 
bladder surgery planned and had been  advised that would not be able to go ahead unless 
he had his gall stones  remove  first. But in all the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded that the insurer acted unfairly.  Vitality told Mr T he would be liable for some of his 
Ref: DRN51462293costs, it tried to contact him to re-confirm that position, and it paid 60% of his costs in line 
with his policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5146229