K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her and the late Mr M a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R and Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
Theres not enough evidence for me to conclude that Bank  of Scotland  didnt make 
Mrs R and Mr M aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, or that they didnt  
choose to take it. I think thats understandable given how long the sale occurred, and 
given the mortgage  ended  over 15 years ago.
Its likely that Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs R and Mr M, and it seems 
to have been right for them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
While they had some sick and redundancy pay, and some savings, the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of this and lasted for longer (up to 12 months per claim). As such  it 
wouldve protected their savings and redundancy pay that mightve been received. And 
it wouldve ensured they didnt fall behind  with their mortgage repayments and risk 
losing their home. 
Its unclear whether Bank  of Scotland explained the cost of the policy clearly. But even if 
it had, I think Mrs R and Mr M would  still have bought it. 
Its possible that Bank  of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But Mrs R and Mr M dont appear to have been  affected  by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mrs R comments,  including what  they shes said about there being a 
life insurance policy  in place. But these points  dont change my conclusion. A life policy  
would only pay out a lump sum on the death of the insured person  so wouldnt help in the 
situations where the PPI would pay out. 
Ref: DRN59846422my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2019. 
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5984642