K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained Santander UK plc wont repay her for transactions  when she didnt 
get money from cash machines but her account  was still debited.
background
Miss F made  a cash machine withdrawal  of £300 on 3 March 2019. This was on a Sunday.  
On the Wednesday she called Santander  to say she didnt receive the money. They credited 
her account  the same  day. On 7 March Miss F made two further cash machine  withdrawals:  
£250 and £50 from a different cash machine to the one shed used on the previous Sunday. 
She complained to Santander shed not received the money.
Over the next few days Miss F made  numerous calls to Santander.  She couldnt understand 
why she wasnt being immediately refunded, as had happened when she complained on 
6 March about the transaction on 3 March. Santander carried out an investigation into all 
three withdrawals using the industry mechanism for doing so. The two different cash  
machine operators  confirmed  in all three cases cash had been  dispensed.
Santander had in fact refunded Miss F £50 for one transaction on 7 March. They then re-
debited this amount.  They  also paid her £75 for giving her incorrect  advice about when shed 
get any refund.  Miss F didnt believe this was fair as shed not received the cash originally 
and brought her complaint  to the ombudsman service.
Santander wasnt able to provide our service with the detailed  evidence we required to 
assess whether Miss F got her money. So our investigator initially  told Santander to repay 
the money. However  he re-considered  this after thinking about  what Miss F was expecting  
us to believe: that two different cash machines  within  a few days  failed  to dispense the cash 
requested. Thered been no indication  of other issues being  investigated  at these machines 
at the same  time. Wed also been told of a separate occasion where  Santander had 
refunded Miss F for a disputed cash machine  withdrawal before these three  instances  took 
place.
Miss F was upset by this change in outcome. She asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can confirm that like our investigator, weve told Santander we need  additional  
evidence from the cash machine operators to give us a fuller picture of what  was going on 
with the two particular machines Miss F used. For example, what  were the transactions 
either side of Mr Fs attempt to get cash out, whether  there were any technical issues  
reported with the machine, did it balance and what about any money  that was collected  in its 
purge bin.
Santander was able to confirm what theyd  been  told by the two cash machine operators. 
For all three  transactions  the evidence showed  money had been  dispensed.  Unfortunately 
Ref: DRN55783722this evidence wasnt supplemented by information on whether any notes had been collected 
in the purge bin instead of being  dispensed.
However I need to review  the other evidence before coming to a conclusion. Ive done this 
and I note:
Miss F had made a successful claim for money  not being dispensed before March  
2019;
Miss F didnt initially claim back £300 for the transaction on 3 March immediately. 
She waited for three days before contacting Santander. Miss F has disputed this but 
there is telephone  evidence  from Santander on this aspect.  
Theres no dispute Miss F has very limited funds. Shes receiving  benefits  and is 
bringing up a young  child. Her statements for this period show  she had no spare 
cash at all. If shed  really not got £300 on 3 March,  Id have expected  her to be in 
touch with Santander immediately.
Santander refunded Miss F £300  as soon as she raised her complaint.  Although  
Miss F knew this was a provisional  refund and dependent on what Santander found 
out from the cash machine operator,  she spent  this money pretty  quickly. I think this 
also supports the fact she was struggling financially.
Miss F then submitted another claim for two further transactions  when she didnt get 
the cash shed  expected on 7 March. Her numerous calls to Santander after this 
centre around her not being  re-credited immediately  as shed been led to expect.
Its highly  unusual  for cash machines not to dispense  money  successfully although it 
does happen.   
Having considered all the available evidence,  I dont believe Miss F was that unlucky to use 
two machines within the space of four days that failed to dispense the cash. So, like our 
investigator, I think its most likely  Miss F got the cash she tried to withdraw on 3 and 7 
March.
I can see Miss F was repaid £300  for the transaction  on 3 March as well as £75 for the 
service she got from Santander.  I dont  believe  Santander is going to reclaim the £300 back 
from her. They appreciate  Miss F probably  did what she did out of financial desperation 
rather than deliberately trying to defraud them.  
Considering all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Santander to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Fs complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5578372