K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of faulty hearing aids.
Background
In April 2018 Mr G bought some hearing  aids from a merchant I will call B. Mr G paid a 
deposit and the balance  was funded  by a fixed sum loan from Hitachi. In November  the 
hearing aids broke was a result of the wax filter housing  becoming detached. They  were sent 
for repairs in November 2018  and this took around  two weeks. Mr G says he was told they 
would be replaced.  B says that the inner  working components were replaced. 
In January they broke again when the extractor  cord severed. Mr G says that this means he 
cant wear the aids as he wouldnt be able to take them out. He hasnt made use of them  
since. B says that it can repair this fault, but Mr G asked that he be allowed to return  them.  
Hitachi rejected Mr Gs section 75 claim and his subsequent complaint. He brought the 
matter to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who recommended 
it be upheld. 
Our investigator noted the relevant law was the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 and the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).  He said there  was an implied term in the agreement that 
the goods supplied were  of satisfactory quality.  This is taken to mean that the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the other 
relevant circumstances.
He went on to point  out that the CRA states:
A consumer  who has the right to a price  reduction  and the final right to reject  may only 
exercise one (not both)  and may only do so in one of these situations -
(a} after one repair or one replacement the goods do not conform  to the contract;
He thought Mr G had seven months use from the hearing aids (May to November). However, 
he believed  it was accepted that the hearing  aids had been repaired once and a new issue  
has arisen. The new issue may be a different problem but the CRA  didnt  say that this had 
any bearing on Mr Gs rights. He thought Mr G was entitled to reject the hearing aids.  He 
also felt that Hitachi  had simply deferred  to B at every stage of the matter  and hadnt allowed 
Mr G to reject the hearing aids after it was alerted  to a second repair
Hitachi didnt agree and again  deferred to B which said Mr G had not been in frequent  
contact and it was willing to have the hearing aids repaired. It also suggested Mr G obtain an 
independent report. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56955732In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Hitachi is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The hearing aids were  new and one would expect  them to be in perfect  working condition 
and to remain so for more  than seven months. As the investigator has pointed out the CRA 
entitles B to make one repair  and if the aids are not in proper working  order then Mr G is 
entitled to reject them. He could choose to accept a repair, but he is not obliged  to do so and 
he is within his rights to seek to reject them.
I accept that in general hearing aids will need to be serviced and as such will require 
maintenance, but neither  of the issues encountered by Mr G are maintenance matters. The 
hearing aids ceased to work properly. Recently B has suggested the latest  problem was due 
to misuse by Mr G, but it has not substantiated this and I have no reason  to think this is an 
accurate claim. Mr G has need  of the hearing aids and I have no reason to think he would 
cause the damage  that necessitates a second repair.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay,
collect the broken  hearing aids at no cost to Mr G,
refund  the initial deposit (£319.50) and pay 8% simple interest from the date it was 
paid until the settlement  date,
refund  all monthly instalments from December 2018 (when problems began) up to 
the date of settlement and pay 8% simple  interest on this from the dates the 
payments were made  up to the date they are repaid,
pay Mr G £125.00  to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused
remove any adverse information  that may have  been added  to Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Ref: DRN56955733Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5695573