K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Ltd delayed a transfer of his pension which caused him loss.
background
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  made  piecemeal requests for information which 
delayed a transfer of his pension. He said he lost out because  between the end of March 
and early May 2018 his new funds wouldve grown by about 10%. He felt hed lost nearly  
£30,000. Initially Reassure accepted it caused  a delay  but later rejected the claim for lost 
growth.
ReAssure said it received a request to transfer funds on 20 February 2018. It replied on 23 
February setting out its requirements for transfer.  This included the need for an IFA to 
confirm the required  advice had been provided.  That confirmation was received on 22 May 
2018 and the transfer was made on 24 May 2018. It transferred around £229,000.  Had it 
transferred in February it wouldve  been  around  £227,000. It didnt accept it had caused  any 
loss and it had already  paid £125  as a gesture of goodwill.
The investigator didnt  think ReAssure had done anything  wrong.  While  everything  didnt go 
correctly she didnt  think the mistakes were  its fault.  She said the key question was who 
caused the delay. Initially ReAssure needed to be certain Mr M had taken financial advice. 
She said she could  see it contacted his IFA in late December and twice in January. Shed 
seen records to show that the IFA was aware of these. The IFA had asked for all 
communication to go to them  so this wasnt unreasonable. The IFA didnt provide 
confirmation itd advised until 22 May. Once that was received the transfer went ahead. She 
didnt think the delay was ReAssures fault.
Mr M didnt  agree. He felt ReAssure had taken a piecemeal approach to issues. In particular 
the December  and January requests predated  the actual transfer request that was submitted 
to the new provider on 5 February 2018  and received  by them  on 20th February.  ReAssure 
requested information  about financial advice and it was sent to them on 10th March.  Mr M 
later confirmed that hed been advised  to transfer.  ReAssure replied to say this wasnt 
sufficient on 14th May 2018. In the interim they queried his address on 18th April and wanted 
it updated. The investigator seemed to imply the IFA was at fault but he said it ceased to act.
The investigator said her view hadnt changed. While hed told ReAssure hed had financial 
advice it didnt meet the legal requirements which said it needed to come  from the IFA not 
the customer. Mr M suggested  ReAssure didnt tell him his reply  wasnt  sufficient. But she 
didnt think it needed to. Itd written  direct to the IFA who was the entity capable of providing 
the legal  confirmation required. While  the IFA had ceased to act it didnt tell ReAssure and in 
fact continued  to correspond with them from February through  to April and the letters 
confirmed all correspondence  should  go to them and not Mr M. So it wasnt unreasonable for 
ReAssure to chase  the IFA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59915322I need to decide whether ReAssure did anything wrong in causing the delay in transfer from 
February to May. In considering this transfer  I have  reflected that there were four parties  
involved, 
1.ReAssure, who was the existing holder of Mr Ms pension  investment, 
2.Mr M, 
3.Mr Ms IFA whose  discussion  with Mr M lead to the transfer and 
4.The receiving investment platform, 
It seems  that Mr Ms IFA corresponded  with ReAssure in late December 2017 and early 
January 2018  requesting information about  the existing policy. That seems  to have resulted 
in a decision to transfer. 
I have seen a letter from ReAssure to the IFA dated 12 January 2018  (enclosing a letter to 
Mr M of the same date) setting out options  including taking tax free cash.  The letter to Mr M 
contains warnings  about the loss of guaranteed  benefits. It also enclosed a form headed 
confirmation of financial advice for completion  by the IFA. The form is clear  that is must be 
completed if Mr M wishes to transfer.  
A revised  version of this letter enclosing the same form was sent to the IFA on 24 January. I 
note that both letters are sent before Mr M requests to transfer. However  I have seen that 
ReAssure wrote to the IFA again  on 23 February,  after receipt of the transfer  request. 
ReAssure refer back to the letter of 24 January and confirm they needed the confirmation of 
financial advice form completed before they could  transfer. The letter also says Mr M needs 
to provide confirmation direct to them. 
I have seen correspondence between Mr M and his IFA at the end of January  enclosing a 
final invoice to conclude  their work. However  I note the IFA didnt tell ReAssure it was 
ceasing to act and it did in fact continue to communicate with ReAssure.  
I note that Mr M suggests ReAssure shouldve been clear that his confirmation  of receiving 
advice to transfer wasnt enough.  But I think it was clear in the letters to Mr M and his IFA 
that his confirmation was needed in addition to the form. I have also seen the signed  request 
to transfer to the new investment platform.  This includes confirmation that Mr M hasnt 
received any personal advice to transfer from it. So it shouldve  been clear that confirmation 
of advice needed to come from the IFA and not the new investment platform and that Mr M 
also needed to provide  confirmation as set out in the letter  from ReAssure. That need was 
made clear in three  letters  from ReAssure sent to his IFA, so I think  ReAssure was as clear  
as it reasonably couldve been.
I have also considered the time required to update the address. It seems this was raised with 
the new provider  in April. The request was immediately passed on to Mr M and chased.  The 
address was updated by early May and a fresh transfer request submitted. So while it took a 
few weeks to identify  the need for confirmation  of address the time taken to get that 
confirmation wasnt ReAssures fault.  As the confirmation of advice was still outstanding it 
didnt make any difference to the overall time taken to progress the transfer.
Ref: DRN59915323Overall the issue that has caused the main  delay is the absence of the confirmation  of 
advice. Once  the form was received  the transfer  is actioned within  a few days. So I dont 
think ReAssure was responsible for the delay  caused by not getting the confirmation it 
required. 
So I dont  think that ReAssure were at fault so I am not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5991532