K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc is holding him liable for a series of gambling 
transactions that he says he neither made  nor authorised.  
background
Over the course of one day in August 2017 twenty-seven payments totalling £2,200 were 
made from Mr Js Barclays account. Each  payment was made through  Apple Pay, and Mr 
Js Apple  Pay account was linked  to his Barclays card. 
Mr J says he wasnt responsible for the payments. He says he sold his mobile  phone  
through Facebook shortly  before the transactions but forgot to clear  it of data before he did 
so. That meant that, once  the buyer had access to the phones  access code (which Mr J 
provided), they also had access to his mobile  banking app and Apple Pay accounts. 
Barclays didnt accept  Mr Js version  of events. It contacted  Sky Bet (to which the payments 
had been made),  which said that Mr J already had an account with it. Use of the account 
required a range of personal details, including full name,  address,  date of birth,  email  
address and mobile phone number. The bank refused to refund the payments. 
Mr J referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. He 
however came to the conclusion that it was unlikely that an unauthorised third party  had 
made the payments. In addition  to the points the bank had made,  he noted that Mr Js 
mobile banking  account had been  used for several  months after the disputed  payments. Mr J 
had not changed his mobile banking details in the meantime, even though  he had said that 
someone had access  to them and had used  them.  
Mr J didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the case  be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for broadly the same reasons.  
Mr Js explanation for the payments to Sky Bet is that he sold his phone to someone without 
deleting even the most sensitive data. In effect, he says, he inadvertently provided the buyer 
with free access to his bank and other accounts. I think thats unlikely, and note that, when  
questioned, he was unable to provide any proof that hed sold his phone at all. He says that 
evidence was lost when he wiped his Apple account.
I agree  with Barclays that its unusual that someone with access to Mr Js account would use 
that access for online gambling,  since any winnings  would be returned to Mr Js account;  a 
fraudster couldnt  profit from that use. Whilst I dont believe thats conclusive  people  dont 
gamble solely  in order to make a profit  its something I need to take into account in 
assessing Mr Js credibility.  
As the investigator  pointed out, however, there were no changes to Mr Js access to his 
mobile banking  app for some months. That means  that he didnt feel the need to protect his 
accounts, even  though  (he says)  someone  else had access to them.  Alternatively,  someone 
else had access to his accounts but made  no further  attempts to profit  from otherwise  take 
Ref: DRN52628632advantage of that access. Im afraid both of those scenarios strike me as unlikely. I think it 
more likely that Mr J still had his phone when the payments were  made  and for some  
months later. I also think it more  likely  than not that Mr J made  the disputed  payments 
himself. 
It follows that it wouldnt be fair to require  Barclays  to make any refund here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr J to accept  or reject  my decision before  15 September  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5262863