K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he wasnt given the full amount of a loan he thought  hed agreed with 
HSBC Bank  plc (HSBC). He also complains  about  his current  account  being closed and 
about possible fraudulent use of his credit card. He says his credit history  has been  affected 
as a result  of all this. He wants his bank account  reopened  and to be given the loan that was 
originally agreed.  He also wants  his credit file to be amended.
background
Mr P is a student and wanted to arrange another loan with HSBC to help with his studies and 
to repay  some debt.  He says HSBC agreed  a loan of £20,000 with him in February 2017 but 
only gave him £11,000.  
Sometime after the loan was paid arrears began to build up on Mr Ps current  and loan 
accounts. He contacted  HSBC to explain that he was a student with no income and agreed a 
short term repayment plan. In October 2017 Mr P agreed another  repayment  plan with 
HSBC but was told that he wouldnt  be informed  if he missed  any more payments  and the 
accounts would be defaulted and passed  for recovery.  And as Mr P did miss payments  his 
accounts were defaulted  and closed.
Mr P complained to HSBC as he said hed been  told that his accounts  wouldnt be defaulted 
while he had a repayment plan in place  and he wanted them re-opened. He also said 
because HSBC hadnt given him the loan that was agreed he had to leave his university 
course as he didnt have the necessary finance  in place and hed lost his course sponsors as 
a result.  
HSBC said it hadnt made  any errors regarding the bank  account or the loan and wasnt 
prepared to amend  Mr Ps credit file. Unhappy with this response Mr P brought his complaint 
to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
that HSBC was entitled to decide  how much  it wanted to lend Mr P through  a loan. She also 
said that  while HSBC had provided  Mr P with some incorrect information during a 
telephone call about his accounts  ultimately  he wasnt in a position to pay off his current 
account balance  in line with the final demand  letter and therefore HSBC  hadnt done 
anything wrong  in closing his account. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he had other  means  of paying off the outstanding balances  but 
HSBC had already  closed  the account and wont reopen it. He also provided evidence 
regarding other  finance  hed had agreed  on the basis that HSBC gave him the loan for the 
amount that was agreed. 
As no resolution could  be found the case has been  passed to me for a decision. 
Mr P has subsequently confirmed that HSBC hasnt yet resolved the issue  of possible 
fraudulent transactions on his credit card. So weve agreed to set up a new complaint to look 
into that matter and I wont be considering that issue in this decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN52137452Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided evidence to show that hed been  unable to complete his university course  
because of his problems with HSBC. Ive considered  these submissions and I have some  
sympathy for Mr Ps position in being  unable to fulfil his university course. But I dont think  
HSBC has done  anything wrong  here  which I know will come  as a disappointment to Mr P 
 so Ill explain why.
Looking at the loan Mr P said hed had agreed, I can see that he made a number of online 
applications for various loan amounts. The one that HSBC agreed was for £11,000, although 
Mr P said he didnt  apply  for that one and wanted  £20,000. The other loan applications  
made for higher amounts  were declined.
Its for HSBC to decide how much its prepared to lend customers based on a number of 
factors. And we wouldnt  usually interfere with a business commercial  decision to lend 
money. But we can look at whether HSBC made any administrative error when Mr P applied 
for lending.   
Mr P says that HSBC  agreed a loan of £20,000 but only gave him £11,000 and this caused  
problems for his university costs. But HSBC has provided records that show  that Mr P 
applied (on line) initially  for £11,000  and HSBC agreed to this. But it declined  subsequent 
applications for £15,000 and £20,000.  So Im satisfied theres  no any evidence  to show  
HSBC agreed it would lend Mr P £20,000. And as mentioned above, its for HSBC to decide 
how much  it prepared to lend a customer,  I cant agree that HSBC was responsible  for Mr P 
being unable  to secure funding to continue his studies. So I wont  be asking HSBC to 
provide Mr P with a loan of £20,000.  
Turning now to Mr Ps complaint about his accounts  being defaulted. I can see that when he 
fell into arrears Mr P explained his position  to HSBC. He confirmed  that he had no income at 
that time  he was a student, and didnt have a guarantor.  With that information I would have 
expected HSBC to be sympathetic to Mr Ps position  and to take positive steps. And I think  it 
did by agreeing a repayment plan and agreeing to review the position of his accounts 
regularly. It also made  him aware of other organisations he could  contact to help and it set 
out what would happen in the event of payments not being met  including the effect on his 
credit file. 
I understand that Mr P is unhappy  that HSBC went on to take steps to default his accounts 
and subsequently close them. So Ive thought about this carefully. But, having done so, I 
think HSBC acted fairly here. Ive listened  to the call Mr P had with HSBC in November 2017  
and theres no dispute  that HSBC did tell Mr P that his accounts  wouldnt be defaulted while  
he had a repayment plan in force. HSBC  has acknowledged this information  was incorrect.  
And I can see that HSBC  has apologised for that error. 
But Ive also seen how the correspondence Mr P received before that telephone call clearly 
explained that if he missed any further  repayments while  on the plan the account  would  
follow a recovery process. And the final demand  HSBC sent after the telephone call in 
December 2017  explained that payment  was required within 18 days  after which HSBC 
would start the process to default the account. So I satisfied  that HSBC  did provide Mr P with 
other communications which clearly set out its position. 
Ref: DRN52137453Mr P has indicated  that had he not been given incorrect  information  over the phone,  he 
wouldve made arrangements  to repay  the outstanding balance.  So Ive gone on to consider 
whether this might have  been the case.
Mr P has suggested his partner could have paid off the debt or that he could have used an 
investment he held with HSBC. In October  2017  nearly £1,700 was required to pay the 
arrears of the loan and the current account.  But having looked at the balance of his 
investment, I dont think that was sufficient to be able to pay off the outstanding amounts that 
he owed. And while  Ive seen how his partner  had transferred money  to him previously  so I 
accept she may have been  willing  to assist him again, I havent  seen enough  persuasive  
evidence to show that his partner had sufficient funds to rectify the situation on this occasion.  
So, on balance, Im not satisfied Mr P would have been able to pay off or reduce the debts to 
stop his accounts going  into default  at this time.  
Ultimately, while accepting  that Mr P was given some incorrect information over the phone, I 
dont think Mr P was in a position to repay the debt. So Mr Ps position hasnt been affected 
by the wrong information he was given. So I wont be asking HSBC  to take any further action 
in respect of the defaulted accounts. 
HSBC has indicated that Mr P has since agreed a further repayment plan and I would urge 
Mr P to continue meeting  this agreement or keep HSBC informed if he is unable  to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  HSBC UK Bank Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213745