K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  gave him incorrect information about  a letter  
hed received from them. Mr M is assisted in bringing his compliant to this service by his 
representative Mr C.
background
Mr M brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response hed received from 
Lloyds. They told him they were  upholding his complaint and offered him £150 
compensation. They said when Mr M opened the account hed agreed to the terms which 
provided that Lloyds  had the right to close the account at any time without the need  for an 
explanation. Lloyds said theyd written to Mr M on 7 September and 17 October 2018 
requesting information.  But they accepted  when  hed called  them about the letters on 17 
October 2018 theyd  made an error  in telling Mr M to disregard the letter. Lloyds apologised  
or this poor service and any inconvenience  it had caused Mr M and offered him £150 
compensation which Mr M didnt want to accept. They also initiated an appeal  process 
against the 65 day closure  notice given on 9 November 2019  giving  Mr M the opportunity  to 
provide information.
The adjudicator who originally looked at this complaint didnt uphold it. He thought Lloyds 
had acted in line with the terms and conditions on the account  and where theyd made an 
error he thought  Lloyds  had offered a reasonable amount of compensation in order to try and 
resolve the complaint.
Mr M didnt  agree with the view. He thought even at the most basic level hed not been given 
the opportunity  to put forward evidence as to the activities on his account. He was confident 
that given the chance  his explanation and evidence would have satisfied the banks 
enquiries. So he thought there was clearly a breach  on the banks part and he asked for his 
account to be reinstated.  The investigator  who later took on this case  told Mr M they thought, 
even if the complaint had been upheld in Mr Ms favour, it would be very difficult for the 
account to be reinstated  once closed. The case has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this isnt complaint which I can fairly  and reasonably uphold.  Ill explain why.
The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in his letter 
giving his opinion.  So I wont repeat that here.  Indeed, theres not a great  deal I can add to 
what the adjudicators  already told Mr M. I think hes covered most points quite clearly. 
No one disputes that under the terms and conditions on Mr Ms account  Lloyds  are able to 
close an account. Lloyds  admit they gave Mr M the wrong information when he called about 
the letter of 17 October  2018. Mr M was told to ignore it but it was an extremely  important 
letter. Mr M told Lloyds he didnt care about  the money and just wanted the bank to reopen  
the account.
Its my role to put consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the 
mistakes hadnt been made. The mistake here was to tell Mr M to ignore the letter  when he 
shouldve been  told to deal with the query.  As a result notice was given and the account was 
Ref: DRN51088922eventually closed. But I think  Lloyds  actions is allowing Mr M to appeal the account closure 
and give the information requested in a telephone call from overseas on 23 November 2018 
- along  with compensation of £150 for the inconvenience caused  by the initial  failing - to be a 
reasonable response. The offer of compensation remains open  and Ill leave  it to Mr M to 
decide whether  or not to accept it.
Unfortunately for Mr M the appeal was declined by Lloyds. But ultimately the decision on 
whether or not to close  an account  is a commercial one for Lloyds and not something this 
service would usually  interfere with. Whats important is that Mr M was given the opportunity  
to provide the information and, from the evidence before me, Im satisfied  that, after the 
initial mistake, he was given that chance.
Given how strongly Mr M feels  about what happened he may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Lloyds informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5108892