K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) failed  to collect its 
car at the end of his hire agreement, and wont refund  the storage fees he was charged 
when he kept the car in storage.
background
Mr S hired a car from VWFS. The hire agreement ended in March  2018, but VWFS  didnt 
collect the car or get in touch with him, so he put it in storage at a cost of £20 a day. In 
September VWFS asked  him for the car back. Since  VWFS had not contacted him until then,  
it agreed to waive  the charges for hiring the car since the end of the agreement. But it did not 
agree to Mr Ss request  that it also pay him for the storage fees, since VWFS hadnt  told him 
to put the car in storage. VWFS said that it had been  Mr Ss responsibility  to return  the car 
himself. Mr S did not agree, and he brought this complaint to our Service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said the terms of the agreement were 
clear: Mr S was supposed to have returned the car in March. He had also broken the 
agreement by putting the car in storage, because that had created a lien over the car, which  
was prohibited by the hire agreement. The adjudicator thought that VWFS  had acted fairly by 
waiving the hire charges between March and September. He didnt  think it would be fair to 
expect VWFS to pay for the storage fees too.
Mr S did not accept that decision, as he felt that the hire agreement said that VWFS  would 
collect the car, so the onus had not been  on him to deliver it to them. He refused to pay the 
storage fees.  He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I certainly do not uphold it. I will explain 
why.
Its not clear why VWFS did not attempt to contact  Mr S until August 2018, when the hire 
agreement ended in March. It clearly should have done. But when it did, it was unable to 
contact Mr S because it did not have  the right phone  number for him. When it finally did 
succeed in contacting him in September, he provided a different phone  number, and said he 
had never  used the old number before and it wasnt his. I dont know whose fault that is, but 
I dont think I need  to investigate that issue, because VWFS agreed not to charge him any 
hire fees for the period between March and September 2018, and I think that is fair.
Mr S does not agree that he was ever liable for any hire fees after the end of the agreement  
anyway. I dont agree with him. I have read the hire agreement, and it is quite  clear.  In 
clause 11 it says:
If you do not return the Vehicle promptly at the end of the Hiring Period  you will 
pay us compensation when we ask.
The same clause goes  on to say that the compensation for returning the car late will be a 
daily rate equal  to one thirtieth  of the monthly payment that was due during the agreement. 
I note that VWFS hasnt  waived its right to charge Mr S this fee for the period since 
September 2018.
Ref: DRN58006292More importantly, however, clause  8 says:
When the Hiring Period ends  you must return the Vehicle to us immediately, at 
such address  as we reasonably require,  at your own expense . If you do not return  
the Vehicle we pay repossess it and recover from you any expenses we incur.
Again, I think  that is clear.  I have also read another document, entitled Volkswagen Contract 
Hire and subtitled  Driver/Hirer: Key Information   Responsibilities, which I presume is pre-
contract information. It includes the following  sentence,  under the headings End of contract 
and Vehicle handover:
At the end of the contract, you are required to hand the vehicle back to Volkswagen  
Financial Services.
Mr S has provided a screenshot of a page  on VWFSs website which  says:
Our agents  at British Car Auctions (BCA) will attempt to make contact with you 6-8 
weeks before  the end of your agreement to arrange a convenient time to inspect 
your vehicle and then collect  it at a later date.
However I dont think the website supersedes  what it plainly says in Mr Ss hire agreement,  
and if he relied on that then he was mistaken. So I am firmly  of the view that it was his duty 
to deliver the car. I note that the invoice  from the storage company says that Mr S took the 
car there himself. So if he could do that himself,  then he could have taken the car back to 
VWFS himself.
Even if I took a different  view about  that, and agreed that it was VWFSs responsibility to 
collect the car, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint, because I dont think  it was reasonable 
of Mr S to do nothing for six months  after the hire period ended. He knew it had ended, 
because when he didnt  hear from VWFS  he put the car into storage, and hired another car. 
If he expected  VWFS  to come and collect the car, and it didnt, then it would  have been  far 
less trouble for him to contact VWFS himself,  by phone or by email, and ask it to collect  the 
car, than to drive the car to a storage facility and leave  it there  at a cost of £20 a day.
Nobody asked  Mr S to leave the car in storage. That was his choice, and it was a choice he 
was not entitled to make, because clause 4 of the hire agreement  says:
You must keep the Vehicle in your possession and control   You must immediately 
pay any amount needed  to remove any lien
Mr S has broken both of those rules. He broke  the first one when he put the car in storage. 
He broke  the second when he refused to pay the storage fees. (The storage companys  own 
terms and conditions say that he gave it a lien over the car.)  So  its not reasonable, or 
lawful, of Mr S to expect or require VWFS to pay the fees, either to him or to the storage 
company directly.
As of June  2019,  the car was still in storage. I dont know what has happened to it since, or 
where it is now. Neither party was willing to pay the storage fees to get it back. VWFS  was 
entitled to stand its ground  on that issue; Mr S was not. I wont give either party legal advice,  
but Mr S should consider carefully  the financial consequences he may be incurring by 
maintaining his position, and I would recommend that he seeks  independent legal  advice. 
Ref: DRN58006293And I would strongly  recommend that he gets the car back, and delivers it to VWFS, before 
VWFS brings legal action  against him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020..
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800629