K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc withdrew cover for his medical conditions under 
his travel insurance policy with it. 
background
Mr M has multi-trip travel insurance with AXA, as a benefit of his bank account. For a 
number of years hes told AXA about  his medical  conditions, which  AXA has agreed to cover 
on an annual  basis. 
In 2017 Mr M told AXA about  a heart  condition. AXA said it would continue to cover him for 
trips hed already booked.  But it later said it wouldnt cover  him for his medical conditions 
under the multi-trip  policy. It honoured cover  for trips hed already booked. It said in future 
hed need to contact a specialist team, which might be able to offer cover  on a single  basis.  
Mr M didnt  agree with this, and came to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She concluded that AXA had been entitled  to 
withdraw cover for Mr Ms medical  conditions. Mr M didnt agree this was fair and said AXA 
was contractually required  to continue cover. He gave us some more information  about his 
medical conditions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it for 
broadly the same reasons  as those given by our adjudicator.
Insurance companies are entitled  to make their own decisions about the risks theyre  
prepared to cover. We dont think this is unreasonable,  as long as they make the decision 
fairly and treat all their customers in the same way.
Ive looked at all the evidence and Im satisfied that AXA was fairly entitled to decide  it would 
no longer cover Mr Ms medical conditions under the travel  insurance policy.  Ill explain my 
reasons. 
In 2017 Mr M wrote  to AXA tell it about a heart condition. AXA continued to cover him. AXA 
later realised that it should have contacted him when it received his letter to go through  
medical questions  with him, which is known as medical screening. AXA didnt do this, but 
said it would  honour  cover for his medical conditions for the trips hed already booked.  
AXA should  have contacted Mr M slightly earlier than it did but I dont think  its fair for me to 
find that it was contractually required to continue to cover Mr M. AXA fairly  and properly 
agreed to cover Mr M for the trips hed already had booked. It wouldnt have been 
reasonable for it to withdraw cover,  when  Mr M had booked trips believing AXA was still 
covering his medical conditions. But for future trips, AXA was entitled to review the medical 
cover it was able to provide to Mr M.
Ive considered whether AXA correctly assessed Mr Ms medical  conditions  under its medical 
screening process in 2018, after it realised its error. Im satisfied it did do this correctly,  
based on the information hed given AXA in response to its questions. 
Ref: DRN50830432Ive taken into account the information Mr M has given us about his heart condition and 
related raised  blood pressure. AXA didnt have to look into the reason Mr M had raised blood 
pressure. But I note one of the questions  AXA asked him in connection  with his heart 
condition was whether he had ever had raised blood  pressure and, if so, whether he took 
medication for that (which he did). The fact that Mr M had previously declared his raised  
blood pressure  doesnt mean that AXA then automatically had to cover his heart condition.  
Not everyone with raised blood pressure also has a heart condition.
I think AXA properly assessed the risks. Unfortunately the combined risk of Mr Ms medical 
conditions was higher than the risk it was prepared to cover  under the bank  account  linked 
multi-trip travel insurance policy. This is the case even though Mr M has travelled frequently  
without any problems. 
AXA has told Mr M that it will consider whether it can offer cover to Mr M on a trip by trip 
basis, through its specialist team. I appreciate he decided the premium that the specialist 
team quoted to him was more than he would pay. But I dont think  AXA had to continue  to 
offer insurance for his medical conditions under the annual multi-trip cover,  and so I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083043