K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that the car hed acquired  under a conditional sale agreement  was re- 
possessed by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) in breach  of the terms of that agreement.
background
In March 2013 Mr E entered into a five year conditional sale agreement  for a used car. 
Unfortunately at the end of 2016 Mr E experienced a change  in circumstances and fell 
behind in his payments.
Under the section  entitled Statutory Rights the agreement sets out the provisions of 
sections 90 and 91 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. These  sections mean that if Mr E 
breaches the contract, but has paid at least one third of the total amount borrowed, then 
the car cannot  be repossessed without  a court order. If BPF do take back the goods  
without Mr Es consent or a court order then Mr E has the right to recover any sums  paid 
under the agreement from BPF.
In February 2017  BPF sent Mr E a default  notice. Mr E contacted  BPF to explain that as 
he hadnt been using the car he had sold it to a third party.  Mr E said he wasnt  now able 
to return the car.
BPF attempted to make  contact with the third party who was now the registered keeper 
of the car.
In September  2017  BPF issued a further  default notice to Mr E and in October 2017 it sent 
a notice of termination  as no payments had been received from him. The notice says that 
the vehicle may be repossessed. If required we will seek a court order  before 
repossessing the vehicle. The notice also sets out that the car may be voluntary 
surrendered which would  avoid any legal costs  that Mr E might  end up liable for.
In January 2018 BPF repossessed the car from the registered keeper. It did not have a 
court order  to allow it to seize the car. 
BPF says that the new owner of the car told it that theyd bought the car from Mr E but 
that they didnt have  any paperwork  they could produce.
Mr E complained to this service that the car had been unlawfully repossessed.  
However, BPF issued civil court proceedings against Mr E to seek  a return of the goods 
and for a money  judgement to cover the outstanding  balance  on the agreement.
Mr Es complaint was put on hold until the court case was concluded.
The County Court adjourned the proceedings for BPF to file a statement setting  out why it 
felt entitled in law to seize the vehicle without a court order . The court  also directed that 
the car wasnt to be sold without a court order. BPF didnt  file a statement but discontinued 
the proceedings in December 2018.  The court notice states the car is being  returned to Mr 
E.
However BPF instead returned the car to the third party who had been the registered 
keeper at the time of the repossession.
Ref: DRN57372132Mr B continued with his complaint. He said that he agreed hed sold the car around three 
years into the agreement but due to its being repossessed hed then paid the third party 
whod purchased it compensation. He also said that BPF were in breach of the agreement 
and he was entitled to his payments being reimbursed.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Es complaint should be upheld.  He said that 
under the conditional  sale agreement Mr E didnt have  the right to sell the car until hed 
made all the payments. Mr E had agreed he shouldnt have sold it when he did.
Our investigator said it was unclear why Mr E hadnt paid off the finance agreement when 
hed received the money from selling the car and that would have been a reasonable 
thing to do.
Our investigator  said Mr E had paid more  than one third of the amount  borrowed and so 
BPF should have obtained a court order before taking the car back. He said he thought it 
was fair the car had been  returned to the registered keeper and not Mr E.
Our investigator said looking at the impact on Mr E of the cars  repossession he didnt think 
compensation was merited. Mr E could have mitigated the situation by paying  BPF the 
proceeds from selling the car on. He also said that Mr E would have had to go to court in 
any event as a consequence of defaulting  under the agreement  as BPF would have sought 
a court  order  to seize  the car.
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair for Mr E to be reimbursed  the payments hed made 
under the agreement as hed had use of the car for three years and then sold it on. So he 
had use of the car and had profited from selling  it on. There was still money owing  under  the 
agreement to BPF.
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view. He said BPF had discontinued the proceedings 
as it hadnt been able to provide the statement the court had required to be served.  It knew 
it had seized the car without proper authority and had held it for several  months illegally.
Mr E also said BPF had told the court it would return the car to him but instead had 
returned it to the registered keeper. He believed he was due compensation for the manner 
in which  BPF repossessed and its breaching  of the agreement. Mr E says it would be fair 
for BPF to pay him the difference between the value of the car at the point of repossession  
less the amount outstanding on the agreement which he thought would be equal to around 
£4,500.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued  a provisional 
decision along the following lines. 
As set out above the conditional sale agreement set out the legal position if there was a 
breach of the contract which  resulted  in the repossession of the goods. If more than one 
third had been paid then goods were classed as protected and a court order  was required 
before it could be repossessed by the credit provider. If goods were repossessed without a 
court order  then there were consequences  for the credit provider.
It was agreed that Mr E had paid more  than one third of the amount borrowed under the 
credit agreement when  it was terminated due to missed payments. It also wasnt  disputed 
Ref: DRN57372133that Mr E had sold the car on to a third party. And that Mr E didnt pay a lump  sum off the 
agreement when hed sold the car.
Mr E was upset about how BPF had conducted itself when repossessing  the car and he 
said it even lied to the police about having  a court order  when the car was taken. I didnt 
know what was said or done  when the car was collected by BPF and I didnt think I needed 
to resolve that. What was clear was the car was taken back  when there  was no court order 
when there  should  have  been one. The issue for me to decide was how Mr Es complaint 
should now be resolved fairly.
Mr E raised  section 91 of the Consumer Credit Act as set out in the agreement which 
states that in these  circumstances he has the right to be reimbursed the payments hed 
made under the agreement. While  I have to take into account what the law says, Im not 
bound by it in reaching what I feel was a fair and reasonable  decision in all the 
circumstances. Here, I had to take into consideration that both sides  have done things 
they shouldnt  have. So while the law was prescriptive about  what may have to happen 
here, I thought that a fair way of resolving  this required  some compromise for both Mr E 
and BPF.
Mr E breached this agreement by not only failing to make payments but also selling the car 
on. In these circumstances  I didnt think it was fair for Mr E to receive  all his payments back 
as it could then be said he had profited from selling it on when he had no entitlement  to do 
so. This would leave BPF without the car or any payments under the agreement.
Mr E had set out an alternative resolution  that he thought would be fair which was that he 
received the value of the car at the point of repossession less the amount  still owing  under  
the agreement. This meant  he would  receive  around  £3,500  as the outstanding balance  on 
the agreement  was actually nearer £4,000 than the £3,000 Mr E had quoted.
But I didnt agree with Mr Es suggested resolution.  I agreed BPF had breached  the 
agreement and it wasnt entitled to repossess  the car when it had. But I thought the 
reasonable consequence of this was that Mr Es liability under the agreement was ended  
and the arrears at the point of the repossession were written off by BPF. In light of the 
payment Mr E had already received  for the car I didnt think that it would be fair for him to 
receive any further amounts by way of compensation.
Mr E was unhappy  the car had been  returned  to the third party  who was the registered 
keeper. BPF said the car was returned to the rightful  owner.  I havent seen any 
documentary proof  about the compensation Mr E says hed paid to this third party and I 
didnt know if this payment was with the agreement the car was to be returned to Mr E. I 
thought Mr E would need to take legal advice if he now wanted the car back. I thought in 
these circumstances  that BPF had acted reasonably in who it had returned  the car to.
 
So for the reasons set out above  I intended to uphold  Mr Es complaint  and I asked BPF to 
write off the outstanding arrears on the account and mark it as settled.
I was aware that there  may be adverse information on Mr Es credit  file in respect  of the 
termination of the agreement. However  BPF were  under a duty to accurately record  
information regarding  payments on a consumers credit file. So I didnt intend to ask BPF 
to remove all the information concerning this agreement. I intended to ask BPF to mark the 
account as settled as from the point the car was repossessed.
Ref: DRN57372134BPF has agreed with my provisional  decision but Mr E disagreed. He said when he had 
found himself unable to keep  up the payments under the agreement  he had contact BPF 
and explained.  He said he had done what  had been asked of him by BPF.
Mr E also says that BPF declined to deal with him once it was informed he had sold the car 
and instead it contacted  the registered keeper before illegally re-possessing  the car.
Mr E says he continued to make  payments for a couple of years  even when he no longer 
had the car and had had to pay the registered  keeper  compensation when BPF took the 
car. Mr E has provided a bank statement which shows a lump  sum payment made to a 
third party in January  2018. Mr E says he didnt  profit from selling the car on.
Mr E says that by law the car didnt  belong to BPF as it didnt  sell him the car only provided 
the finance and whether he had the right to sell it was arguable. He says that he had paid 
over 75% of the cost of the car at the point when  it was re-possessed  by BPF. And that 
even if the court had granted a re-possession order to BPF then it would have had to 
refund him what was owed based  on the value of the car at the time the vehicle was 
unlawfully seized.
Mr E says that I havent taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards of practice, codes of practice or good  standards  on industry  
practice at the time in reaching my provisional  decision. These are things that I should 
consider when reaching a fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of each case 
I look at.
Mr E says the car should have  been  returned to him this was what  it had said it would do 
when withdrawing  the court case against him. Mr E says that BPF kept the car for over a 
year before returning  it to the registered keeper. Mr E also says that as he understands it 
the registered keeper declined to have the car back as it was returned in a poor condition.
Mr E says his resolution was to receive back the difference between the value of the car at 
the point it was seized less the amount still outstanding on the agreement  as the car was 
worth more than the outstanding amount.
Mr E says any adverse  information on his credit file should be removed as it was lodged 
inappropriately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont accept Mr E had the right to sell the car to the third party when he did. I think its 
established law that a car financed under a conditional sale agreement  belongs to the 
finance company  up until the final payment is made.  So, regardless of what percentage of 
the agreement  Mr E had paid at the point  he sold the car on to another, he had no 
entitlement to do this.
Mr E says he has always been open  and transparent with BPF. Ive seen he completed 
details of his income  and outgoings when his circumstances changed and that he made 
payments up until December 2016,  but he didnt inform it that he had sold the car on until 
Ref: DRN57372135some time later. He also didnt pass on to BPF any lump sum from the proceeds hed 
received from selling the car on.
Ive seen there were  13 missing payments under  the agreement by the time the car was re-
possessed. There  had been  a number of letters and termination notices sent to Mr E to 
which he didnt respond. I think BPF did give Mr E opportunities to re-engage with it but Mr E 
didnt take these up. Im satisfied that BPF acted  reasonably when it terminated the 
agreement with Mr E.
Ive found that both parties didnt act in accordance with the agreement. Mr E shouldnt have 
sold the car and BPF shouldnt have re-possessed  it without a court order. So I havent 
changed my view that they are both at fault.  The decision for me to make is whether my 
provisional decision as to how this complaint can be settled is still fair and reasonable taking 
into account that the car is now with BPF.
BPF says it intends to sell the car at auction and that it considers  the car to be its property. 
Ive seen Mr E comments regarding the County Court case but as the proceedings were  
discontinued there  was no judgement made. The order in respect of the car not being sold 
that was in place during those proceedings lapsed  when  the case  ended.  So there is no 
court order  to the effect that the car must be returned to Mr E. I appreciate  the court was told 
by BPF it would return the car when it discontinued the case but I dont think  I cannot  
reasonably say that that statement was one that BPF are bound by.
Its not in my remit to decide who now legally owns the car, or whether BPF has the right to 
sell it. That would be for a court to decide should Mr E decide he wished to legally challenge 
BPFs plans  for the car.
BPF did try to return the car to the third party  who declined to take it back. I dont think BPF 
acted unreasonably in the circumstances by not then returning it to Mr E as it didnt consider 
him to be the owner. .
Mr E disputes that he profited from selling the car on and says he continued to make some 
payments afterwards and also had to pay compensation to the third party  when the car was 
re-possessed. 
I think its reasonable to consider that Mr E probably  benefited  from receiving a lump sum at 
the time he sold the car. I dont have much evidence about  when the car was actually sold or 
the price that was paid for it. I dont think that the fact compensation was later paid to the 
third party by Mr E detracts  from the fact he sold the car on and didnt pass those  proceeds  
in full on to BPF. So I think its more  likely  than not that overall  Mr E did financially benefit 
from selling  the car.
As set out above while I have to take into account what  the law says,  Im not bound  by it in 
reaching what I feel is a fair and reasonable decision in all the circumstances. And I still 
think that its fair to take account of the behaviour of both of the parties. So, although the 
law was prescriptive about  what may have to happen here, I still think that a fair way of 
resolving this complaint  is to require some compromise from both Mr E and BPF.
So, despite  the car now being with BPF, I havent  changed my view. I dont know  the value 
of the car, but in light of the time that has passed  since it was re-possessed,  and that cars 
are depreciating assets, I think its unlikely that the amount received for it will exceed the 
amount outstanding on Mr Es account.
Ref: DRN57372136I think the fairest solution remains that Mr Es liability under the agreement  ends on the 
date the car was re-possessed  and any arrears outstanding  at that date are written off so 
he has nothing further to pay.
As BPF is under an obligation  to accurately record how an account is managed on a 
consumers credit file Im not asking BPF to remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mr Es credit  file prior to the date the car was re-possessed.
For the reasons  given  above Ive also not changed  my view that Mr E isnt due any 
compensation from BPF as both parties are at fault.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Mr Es complaint and Im asking  Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  to end Mr Es liability under the agreement from the date the car 
was re-possessed  and write off all the arrears that were  due so that he has nothing further to 
pay.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
J. Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5737213