K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Specialist Motor  Finance  Limited  did not provide her with correct 
advice when she contacted it to voluntarily  terminate (VT) her hire purchase  agreement 
(HPA).
background
Miss M entered into a HPA with Specialist  Motor  Finance in December 2015 to acquire a 
car. In 2018 she contacted Specialist Motor Finance to say the car was not fit for purpose.  
She says the car broke down and she was told the issue causing this had always been 
present. She asked  to reject the car but this was not accepted.
Miss M says that she then asked to VT her agreement but she was told she could not do this 
until she had paid half the agreement. She says she contacted Specialist Motor Finance 
another time about this issue and was told she was three months away  from paying  half her 
agreement and could  not VT at that time.
Miss M says she then felt pressured into voluntarily surrendering her car but when she tried 
to do this her request  was rejected. She says she then took advice and realised she should  
have been able to VT her agreement. She contacted this service but says she still received 
calls about the collection of her car. 
Specialist Motor Finance says that Miss Ms complaint  was about her vehicle not her rights  
to VT her agreement. It says Miss M first contacted in on 1 February 2017 asking for a 
settlement figure which was provided. In March  2018, Miss M contacted  it again to ask for a 
settlement figure and to discuss the possibility  of voluntarily terminating  her agreement. It 
says there  was no evidence that she asked to VT her agreement  at that time or that she was 
told this was not possible.
In April 2018, Specialist  Motor Finance  says Miss M contacted it asking to reject  the car as it 
was not fit for purpose. It says that given  the time that had passed since Miss M acquired the 
vehicle it said she would  need to provide further  evidence of the issues with the car. It says 
Miss M was not happy with this and the call was passed to an authorised third party. It says 
that during the discussion with the third party payments were discussed and so the call was 
transferred to its collections department. The collections  team  tried to discuss the options of 
VT and voluntary surrender (VS) with the third party who confirmed  he was aware of these 
and asked that Miss Ms account be defaulted  and the car collected.
Specialist Motor Finance says that Miss M contacted it on 30 May 2018 to discuss  her 
request to VS her agreement and it explained that this was not possible as she hadnt  signed 
to confirm she accepted liability.
Specialist Motor Finance says it was not until 28 June that Miss M contacted it to say she 
should have the right to VT her agreement. It says that based on this Miss M should  be 
required to pay the arrears that built up on her account. It says if the arrears are paid,  along  
with any additional  charges and the amount due to make half of her total payments then this 
would be reported  on her credit agreement as a VT and no default  would be recorded. It did 
offer to remove the outstanding charges on the agreement of £210  as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator upheld  his complaint.  He said that Miss M had been  provided incorrect 
information when  she contacted the business  in April 2018 in regard to her request to VT her 
Ref: DRN52740142agreement. He said that Miss M should have been  allowed  to VT her agreement at that time 
and because of this she should now be allowed to VT her agreement and only pay the 
amount required  to bring her total payments to half of the total amount payable.  He said she 
should not be required to pay the arrears. 
Our investigator set out that Miss M would still be responsible for any additional  charges 
relating to the condition of the car.
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  did not accept our investigators view. It said that Miss M 
should have maintained her payments while her complaint was being  investigated and so 
she should be liable for the arrears on her account  along with the other payments due.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M wanted to reject her car as she said it was not fit for purpose. I can understand why 
Miss M was upset that her car experienced serious issues  and that she feels these should 
not have happened given  the age and mileage  of her car. However, as Miss M had the car 
for more than two years  before  the issues were raised, I find it reasonable that Specialist 
Motor Finance requested further evidence  in order to consider  her rejection request. As I 
have not seen any evidence to show that the issues Miss Ms car experienced were present  
from the point of supply,  I do not uphold this part of her complaint.
Miss M then raised a complaint about the information she was given when she requested to 
VT her agreement. Under the regulations Miss M is allowed to VT her agreement  as long as 
she pays half the total amount due under the HPA along with any overdue  amounts. If this 
occurs and the car is in reasonable condition then she would have nothing  further  to pay. 
This is set out on Miss Ms HPA.
When Miss M contacted  Specialist Motor  Finance  about the possibility of a VT of her 
agreement she had not paid half the total amount due. At this point it would have been 
reasonable for Miss M to have been  told that she could VT her agreement  but that she would 
need to pay the amount needed  to bring her total payments to half the amount due under 
her agreement.
I have requested the calls that took place  at this time but after an extended period these 
have not been provided.  Therefore I cannot  say what  was said on the calls in March and 
April 2018. However,  Miss M has explained that she was told she could not VT the 
agreement at that time because she hadnt paid half the amount due under the HPA. While it 
is correct she needed to pay half, it appears  she was not told that she could do that at any 
time. Because of this Miss M did not think  the option to VT her HPA was available to her at 
that time.
Specialist Motor Finance says that it was not until 28 June 2018 that Miss M contacted it to 
say she felt she should be allowed to VT her HPA and said at this point it should have 
actioned her request.  However, based on Miss Ms actions following her discussions in 
April 2018, I think it more  likely than not that had she been told she could pay half at that 
time and VT the HPA she would have done  this. 
Ref: DRN52740143Miss M currently  has a car that she is not driving and the options of either a VT or VS are still 
available to her. Given the confusion regarding the VT advice she received I find it 
reasonable that Miss M is put back in the position she would have been  had her HPA been 
voluntarily terminated  in April 2018. At this time her account was not in arrears but she had 
not made payments totalling half the total amount due. Therefore I find it reasonable that she 
is allowed to VT the agreement by making  payments of half the total amount due under the 
HPA. Accepting  that this would have  happened in April 2018, I find that all arrears  from that 
time should be removed.  
I note that given the issues with the car there may be additional amounts to pay if the car if 
considered to have  been  returned  with damage that is deemed to fall outside of wear  and 
tear. These will be the responsibility of Miss M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited should:
1.allow Miss M to voluntarily terminate her agreement by paying  half the total amount 
due (and not any additional amount for arrears  that have arisen from April 2018). If 
she cannot pay this in  one go then it should  come to an arrangement  for this to be 
paid in instalments;
2.remove any adverse information  regarding missed payments from Miss Ms credit file 
for the period from April 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5274014