K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that he was wrongly  advised  by BDO Northern Ireland (BDONI) to 
release funds from his pension  to invest in an unregulated property development.  In 
particular, he says:
-the investment  scheme hadnt received HMRC  approval, nor had this been sought;
-he was assured the scheme was suitable because of its low risk and guaranteed 
income stream;
-BDONI was aware it involved  a substantial amount of his pension.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  were set out in the attached 
provisional decision dated 7 June 2019. I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint  for the 
reasons given in that decision.
Mr L said the investigation was thorough but it appeared  was largely based on information 
supplied by BDONI. He considered there were a number of inaccuracies, and that I had 
accepted BDONIs  portrayal of him as a sophisticated and high risk investor. He didnt agree 
any notes by BDONI to that effect should be accepted without supporting evidence. He 
added hed be happy to discuss his and his business past history,  which was not disclosed 
with BDONI and did not involve taking high risk. The net worth  of the business in mid-2009 
was a little under £2m and not the several  million pounds referred to.
At the time of BDONIs presentation  in 2009 the only investments  he had were his pensions, 
which he was told were  not high risk, and less than 300 inherited Lloyds Banking Group plc 
shares. He had never personally been involved in investment markets. Mr P, who had 
advised Mr L and his family on pensions for many  years, could confirm his risk profile as 
other than high risk. 
His recollection was that the presentation, made  principally by BDONI, enthusiastically 
supported the HMO  property scheme  because it would be a suitable way of repaying a 
pension debt, whilst cautioning against  other uses of the funds because of the potential  70% 
tax bill. They  also confirmed they had indeed introduced BDONI clients to the scheme using 
the HMO property model, which  was the only suitable investment mentioned  at the 
presentation. They referred to their professional indemnity cover at the presentation.
He and his son asked Mr P to accompany  them to the presentation, and whilst Mr P was not 
as enthusiastic about the scheme he had not carried out the extensive research into it that 
BDONI had. Their prior experience in investing in residential property was the purchase  of a 
number of apartments which were let out and managed by friends and acquaintances who 
had years of experience in that sort of business. He was told that this would not be 
considered high risk. 
Borrowing to buy residential property only happened  when they invested  in the HMO 
scheme. They were not determined to invest in the scheme, but had instead been  
considering the purchase of the premises occupied by their business  using  funds from the 
business and his pension. That would have had the support of Mr P and their accountants, 
but did not have the potential return on investment of the HMO scheme.
Mr L said he believed compensation in respect  of final decisions had been  paid to a number 
of other  investors and wondered how their circumstances differed from his  and whether 
affordability of the loss was a major  factor in the decision.
Ref: DRN54986822BDONI didnt have any further comment to make in response to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why receiving my provisional  decision  out of the blue was disappointing  to Mr L 
after such  a long wait to learn of the outcome of the Financial Ombudsman Services 
investigation. But Id like to assure him that I have  considered the specific  circumstances  of 
his case very carefully and have reconsidered  them before making this final decision.
Im not able to comment on other complaints or compare them  to Mr Ls case  as we consider 
each case on its own individual merits. BDONI also reserves the right to choose  to settle 
complaints before or after theyve been referred to the ombudsman service  if it wishes to do 
so. It hadnt  offered to settle Mr Ls complaint, having raised some of the issues about his 
attitude to and capacity for risk about  which Mr L is now concerned.   
But to answer Mr Ls point, capacity for risk  which  includes  his ability  to bear some  loss  
is a relevant consideration in any complaint. It need  to be considered  alongside the attitude 
to risk itself. But its not the sole basis on which we determine the outcomes of complaints.
As a service  we are, to some extent, reliant on information supplied by the respondent 
business because  it is required  by the regulator to keep records of the advice process. This 
fact finding of Mr Ls circumstances  and objectives is a contemporaneous record,  as are his 
recollections of the advice  he received.  Ive taken both parties evidence into account. 
I would tend to agree, from the summary that Mr L has given, that he didnt have much  past 
experience of buying and selling investments (outside his pension). However after 
discussing this with Mr L BDONI recorded  and told Mr L in its suitability reports   that he 
was willing  to take a high degree of risk with this particular investment. It warned him that the 
investment (and the strategy used to achieve  it) wasnt appropriate for him if he didnt want 
to take that high risk approach.
Irrespective of his personal investment experience Mr L comes across as a successful 
businessman  and I dont think  the difference between his business being  worth about two 
or several  million pounds  makes a distinction  there.  I thank Mr L for his offer to discuss his 
business background in more detail, but its not in dispute that he is not involved himself in 
financial services and Ive not credited him with a significant level of financial sophistication  
in reaching this decision. So I dont  think I need  to know more  of the specifics  about  his 
background to reach a fair and reasonable decision on this case. 
Nevertheless, the experience Mr L has of running  a business suggests  to me that he would 
have raised issues  with what BDONI said in its suitability report if he did not feel it reflected 
the risks he was prepared  to take. He took the prudent  step of taking Mr P along to the 
presentations with him, who was a UK regulated adviser and so, in my view, familiar with the 
advice process BDONI  was undertaking and why it was undertaking this.
From what  Mr L has said, there was an alternative plan for investing some  of his pension 
scheme which also involved investing in property  potentially with less risk because it was a 
commercial premises connected  with his business.  But on comparing that with what was on 
offer from the HMO scheme, Mr L seems  to have been attracted to the potentially higher 
returns. So he had a lower risk and a higher risk option, and due to the relationship  between  
Ref: DRN54986823risk and potential reward,  there is of course  a plausible  reason why Mr L chose the higher 
risk route on this occasion.
I dont think its reasonable for me to conclude that Mr L could have believed that BDONI 
was underwriting  any potential loss he might suffer. Ive seen a copy  of the presentation 
slides about the HMO scheme which Mr L refers to, and they dont give any such 
undertaking from BDONI.  
As I said in the provisional decision I cant comment on the tax implications of the pension 
debt strategy, given  that it was acknowledged at the time it was potentially subject to 
challenge from HMRC. But that does in itself explain why its unlikely many other investment 
schemes would  have been utilised  in connection with this model   it was needing to be 
employed here because  residential property cant be held within a pension.  And the 
evidence Ive reviewed, including  Mr Ls further comments, suggests he was attracted to the 
potentially higher returns in residential  property compared with commercial  property.
Its worth  noting that the bulk of Mr Ls non-pension assets were also invested in buy to let 
residential property,  but Mr L doesnt consider this presented undue  risk. Residential  
property investing  is undoubtedly very popular in the UK but it does carry risks which  can be 
overlooked in light of its popularity  and these  are not just confined to the effect of 
borrowing (gearing).  The valuation of property is a matter of opinion  rather  than fact  it can 
be affected by market sentiment and become illiquid; theres no guarantee Mr L could let the 
property and achieve the desired rent in all market conditions; and there  is the risk of over-
concentrating assets in one particular sector.
Mr L is of course entitled to his view that concentrating his non-pension assets into this 
sector was an acceptable risk to him despite these  potential issues. The risks of the HMO 
scheme were clearly higher because borrowing and a counterparty would be involved,  and 
there were HMRC  implications  but these  risks were spelled out to Mr L. So his opinion 
regarding his own residential property investments doesnt strongly  suggest  to me that 
BDONI would have been able to deter him from investing in this scheme  given that he was 
more attracted to it, despite the risks,  than holding commercial property within his pension.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L once again after the patience hes shown with the ombudsman  
service but Im not persuaded to change my decision that his complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54986824Provisional decision  of 7 June 2019
circumstances
Mr L was introduced to BDONI in June 2009 for the purposes of making  a potential 
investment in a residential property scheme.  The manager of that scheme,  who Ill call Mr 
B was present at the meeting.
The scheme involved depositing cash sums  with Mr Bs company which would  use them to 
buy properties to be renovated as houses of multiple occupation (HMOs).  Until the work on 
each HMO had been completed and the property could be transferred to the investor, they 
would be paid a rate of interest  (10%pa) by the company. Following  transfer of the property, 
it appears that the scheme would continue  to co-ordinate the payment of rents  collected for a 
guaranteed term of five years, after which the investor had the option to continue  with or sell 
the property. As an HMO would count as residential  property, it was not possible  to hold 
such an investment within  a pension.
BDONI recorded the following  details on its file:
Mr L was aged  nearly  54 and married with two dependent children.
He had a family  business worth several million pounds and, together  with his wife, a 
small self-administered (pension) scheme  (SSAS)  with Rowanmoor valued at £1.4m.
Those arrangements were looked after by his existing financial adviser (Mr P) of 15 
years standing, who was regulated in the UK.
His knowledge of pensions wasnt very extensive.
Mr B had previously explained  to Mr L how a SSAS worked, and the flexibility of this 
type of arrangement.
BDONI explained that Mr L could withdraw  benefits from his pension to invest  
elsewhere (until April 2010 the minimum pension age was still 50). But he could also 
sell a pension scheme asset  to himself, resulting in a pension debt, which he would 
then repay over a number of years.
The risks involved  in the pension debt process  were explained, including the potential 
tax charges of up to 70% if it was subsequently deemed an unauthorised payment by 
HMRC.
Mr L would like to continue working  with Mr P as his adviser but in conjunction with 
BDONI. BDONI was willing to either  look after Mr Ls whole SSAS, or just the portion 
that could be transferred  out to a SIPP to facilitate the pension  debt arrangement.
Mr L had already signed up to a few units in the property scheme and estimated his 
pension should  purchase another eight.  
The existing SSAS couldnt be used for this because BDONI worked with a specific  
SIPP provider with specialist knowledge.  A formal schedule would need  to be drawn  
up with the SIPP  provider for the repayment of the debt with interest,  to ensure it was 
on an arms length basis.
Mr L asked if he could  use the arrangement to invest in something  other  than the 
property scheme, which BDONI  confirmed  he could. It said that the debt arrangement 
itself was only appropriate for clients  with a high attitude to risk, and that Mr L 
understood and was comfortable with this.
The difference between drawing benefits  from the pension  and a plan debt was 
discussed. The plan debt remained an asset and wouldnt affect the paper value of 
the pension, on which benefit calculations were  based. So BDONI said that if pension  
benefits werent needed, Mr L shouldnt withdraw them.
The notes suggest  Mr P had been  tasked with establishing if any transitional protection 
would be lost on making transfers out of the SSAS,  however  there is a somewhat  confused  
picture on this point  as theres also evidence of Mr P himself asking BDONI about  the 
Ref: DRN54986825implications for transitional  tax free cash protection. Ultimately BDONI  confirmed to Mr P in 
October 2009:
Our report highlights  that you have advised  which pensions should  be transferred to the  
SIPP. BDONI  have simply facilitated the paper work  in relation to these transfers.  I can 
confirm that BDONI are providing the advice in relation to the investment of theSIPP  cash  
into the Offshore  Cash fund. You are not deemed  to have provided any advice  on the 
setting up or investment within  [the] SIPP.
An undated  Scheme Debt  Credit Paper noted that [BDONI] feels  that [Mr L] is a good client 
for the scheme debt concept and is comfortable that the loan repayments  would  be made as 
advised. This was apparently in reference to Mr Ls net worth  and the profitability of his 
existing business,  for which BDONI had seen accounts.
In a later September 2009 meeting note,  BDONI  recorded that: 
-Mr L was unsure about  how much of the SSAS  he wanted to transfer  to the new 
SIPP provider. A protected rights plan, the Aegon  SSAS investment and a trustee  
investment plan (TIP) had no penalties for transfer, but some of the other plans did. 
Mr L was thinking of transferring only the first two totalling £175,000.
-[BDONI] fully explained  that the pension  scheme would still be intact after scheme  
debt and also explained that once  property investment had been undertaken it will 
provide sufficient income to the pension  in order to repay the debt. 
-If Mr L later required a pension income he could take it from the debt repayments that 
would increase liquidity in his SIPP.
-A paraplanner at Mr Ps IFA firm had a number of questions  to raise  with BDONI 
about the HMO property  scheme.  BDONI explained the concept of the scheme but in 
terms of the financial  workings Mr L would need to speak  to the scheme himself. It 
was his own decision whether he wanted to invest.
-Because the debt repayment  would  only cause  pension growth at 2% above  the base 
rate, it was unlikely  to have any adverse pension lifetime allowance (LTA) 
implications. And as an asset within the pension, the scheme  debt was already 
exempt from inheritance  tax.
As a result of this meeting  Mr L agreed to transfer the two plans above into a new SIPP.  
BDONI collected some further information about his income and assets at around this time. 
It noted he received  a substantial income  from his family business. He had £625,000  of 
equity in his home and cash assets  of £20,000.  His pension was by far his main  asset.
BDONIs September  2009 pension planning report set out:
-Mr P had attended the meetings  with Mr L and was receiving a copy  of the report.  
Hed agreed with Mr L to transfer but BDONI was to recommend a suitable  vehicle.  
Mr P would be giving Mr L ongoing advice.
-The ramifications of transferring had been discussed between  Mr L and Mr P, so 
BDONI hadnt compared charges or checked for the existence of Guaranteed 
Annuity Rates (GARs).
-Mr L had a high attitude to risk. This was defined  as willing to accept  a high level 
of risk in return for the potential for higher returns in the longer term. They recognise 
that this may result in the value  of their portfolio fluctuating, possibly significantly, in 
the short term. They are aware that the risks are such that a significant percentage of 
the capital sum could  be lost.
-BDONI set out what a high risk asset  allocation might look like, but because Mr L 
was looking for liquidity the entire  transfer  of about  £165,000 would go into a unit 
trust investing in a cash fund.  This investment would in due course be sold by the 
SIPP to Mr L personally, to create a pension debt.
Ref: DRN54986826-Mr L took an active interest in following investment markets. He was aware he could 
lose all or part of his investment,  and had been  comfortable  with fluctuations in the 
value of his investments  in the past.
-The risks following investment in the SIPP included:
past performance was no guarantee of future  returns;
investment values may go down as well as up and he may not get back  the full 
amount invested;
some  investments, including property  or unlisted company shares, may not be 
readily realisable;
the transfer wasnt guaranteed to provide  greater  benefits than remaining with the 
existing provider.
-Unlike a SSAS,  the SIPP cannot have more than one member  and cannot  provide 
company loans. Mr L also didnt intend  drawing pension benefits in the near future.
-For this advice BDONI would charge 3% of the amount transferred (subject to a 
minimum of £5,000)  and ongoing  fees of £500 per year, to be taken  from Mr Ls 
SIPP. Other work will be invoiced separately.
-The provider itself would charge  £425 for setting up the SIPP (plus £75 per transfer)  
and then had a £500 annual management  charge. 
The property scheme wasnt  specifically mentioned in this report. But BDONI also sent Mr L 
a subsequent pension planning  report  about  creating the debt in January 2010, which  said:
-He wanted  to invest in the property scheme and BDONI wasnt advising him on the 
merits of doing  so  hed done  his own due diligence into the scheme.
-He had a high risk profile, making setting  up a plan debt appropriate. But Investing a 
high percentage  of your pension fund in one sector  carries additional risk and 
reduces investment diversification.
-The SIPP was unable to lend to Mr L (as the member), but if a debt was created then 
the HMRC rules  which were  referred to in the report  allowed this to be repaid  on 
an arms length basis. So the only option  which met Mr Ls objectives was for the 
SIPP to sell the unit trust to him personally   thereby  establishing a debt between the 
two, as Mr L wouldnt immediately pay for the asset. 
-He would then be able to cash in the unit trust but would be required to repay the 
amount of the resulting  debt in line with a commercial agreement. The SIPP provider 
would charge £125 plus VAT in order to administer the scheme debt arrangement.
-It repeated the warning that tax charges of up to 70% might  be suffered if HMRC 
classified the plan debt as an unauthorised payment.  
-BDONI had facilitated similar arrangements without  challenge  from HMRC, and we 
are confident that the proposal  operates within the rules  as laid down,  however,  a 
future challenge from HMRC cannot  be ruled out and BDONI  cannot guarantee the 
schemes effectiveness  in the future.
-If the base rate increased the required debt repayments would too. Failure to repay 
the debt could in itself be deemed an unauthorised payment  with the same tax 
implications. The total tax liability could amount to £115,500.
The offshore  unit trust was sold to Mr L in February  2010 and documented in a pension  
investment report at that time, which repeated: BDONI have not provided any advice  in 
relation to the merits or otherwise of investing in [the property scheme] and you have carried 
out your own due diligence on this investment. It again reminded Mr L that BDONI 
established he was a high risk investor  and the plan debt was only appropriate for such  an 
investor. As Mr L didnt  want  to draw pension benefits at that time, BDONI set out that the 
plan debt was the only option  that met his needs.
However when Mr L and BDONI met to discuss the content of the report, BDONI recorded 
Mr Ls wish was now to use the proceeds of cashing  in the unit trust in his name to make a 
Ref: DRN54986827directors loan to his company.  He then intended  to invest in the property scheme via his 
company and release money back to himself from the company when he needed to repay 
the debt. BDONI told Mr L that he should have  life cover in place to protect his pension  from 
an unauthorised  payment  charge in the event that he died before the debt had been  repaid. 
Mr Ls response was that he had sufficient life cover in place to cover this eventuality.
The resulting  plan debt of about £165,000 was required to be repaid  over 10 years  (with the 
first payment  deferred  by a year),  plus interest  at bank base rate plus 2% per year. The 
agreement Mr L signed the trustees of his SIPP to repay the debt acknowledged the 
following:
In the event that I fail in any way to adhere to making the above payments as they fall 
due, I accept that the trustees have the right to demand immediate repayment  of the 
outstanding debt in full.
Mr L had expressed interest in later releasing a further sum from his SSAS on the same  
basis. A further pension  planning report followed in March 2010 covering a transfer  of the 
TIP from the SSAS to Mr Ls new SIPP, and a pension  investment report  covering the further 
pension debt in June 2010  this time using an offshore cash  bond for £147,000. The 
property scheme was again specifically mentioned,  and the potential  tax charges of 
£102,900 should this be deemed an unauthorised payment.
This involved further liaison on administrative matters between BDONI and Mr Ps IFA firm, 
who were also involved in discussing Mr Ls application for fixed  protection from the lifetime 
allowance in November  2011. I understand that this was applied  for and Mr L is no longer 
able to make  pension contributions from earnings, but has a protected  lifetime allowance of 
£1.8m.
Mr L reports that the arrangements worked  well from late 2009 to mid-2012, with him initially  
receiving interest from the property  scheme and eventually receiving three HMO properties 
(partly funded by mortgages). I take Mr Ls statement to include both the investments he 
made personally and from his pension, as in later correspondence Mr L indicates that none 
of the money  originating from his pension  bought  any properties.
Companies House  also records that Mr L established a new property  company  in February 
2011 with £275,000 of debtors,  which  is still active.  In May 2012 he mentioned  to BDONI 
that he was considering using his remaining SSAS  funds, in part, to buy a new business 
premises. At that point  he agreed with BDONI to consolidate the two plan debts into one 
debt totalling £307,000,  being repaid on a quarterly basis. 
Between August and October 2012  there was a hiatus in the payments being made. They  
were initially  told that this was because there was a cash flow problem that would soon be 
sorted out. In January  2013 all payments ceased.  Mr B was declared bankrupt  shortly  
afterwards. 
The plan debt had to be switched to an interest-only basis  in April 2013, which BDONI said it 
couldnt guarantee would prevent  unauthorised  payment  charges. However my 
understanding is that the quarterly interest-only payments towards the plan debt are up to 
date and the plan debt arrangement hasnt been called into question. It appears that since 
that time Mr L has reverted to using Mr P for investment advice on the funds held within  the 
SIPP. 
Mr L has sold two of the properties, but says the proceeds were insufficient to repay  the 
outstanding mortgages. Hed been able resume receiving rental payments directly  from an 
Ref: DRN54986828agent for the third property. Again, I believe this is reference to other properties Mr L didnt 
buy with the proceeds  of his pension.
 
Mr Ls formal complaint
Mr L complained to BDONI in October 2014  in the terms Ive set out above. He referred  to 
having independent advice to make his complaint, although my understanding  is that one of 
the original promoters  of the property scheme had also been  involved in the complaints Mr L 
(and others) raised.
BDONI acknowledged Mr Ls complaint but noted  that it was near-identical  to others it had 
received and replied  I do not propose  to engage  in any further correspondence with [the 
promoter] (whether or not via you).  My understanding  is that BDONI believes the schemes 
promoter was pivotal in Mr Ls decision to invest.  It didnt provide a final response  to Mr Ls 
complaint, but it later decided to instigate a review of a number of clients who had invested 
in the same scheme. It wrote to Mr L on that basis in May 2015:
We intend to provide  redress to those customers we establish  have suffered losses as a 
result of any failings on our part. Our redress settlement will provide customers who have 
been affected with compensation more  promptly  and with more certainty than if those 
customers were  to pursue  third parties  who may have contributed to their loss directly. 
Nonetheless, as part of any settlement agreement,  we may require the assignment  of any 
rights customers may have against third parties including [the property scheme] and 
those persons involved with your investment.
Mr L asked the ombudsman service to continue its investigation, telling us he felt hed be 
surrendering his rights for no guaranteed outcome. He gave us an account of his dealings 
with BDONI and answered  a number of questions  from our adjudicator. In summary, he said:
A friend of his son worked for the property  scheme and told him about the idea of 
buying HMO properties in mid-2009. 
He and Mr P then went to a presentation where BDONI were present. They asked 
how it was possible to invest  in this way and couldnt be told otherwise everyone 
would be doing it. 
He felt that by investing in this scheme  hed be getting ahead  of the game  by 
investing in residential  property, as it had been  ruled out within  a pension.
They were told that they needed  to be careful in making sure that the money was 
repaid to the pension and not spent in such a way that it couldnt  be recovered.
On the basis that the property investment was good for the pension money they 
thought it would be good for the family  businesss money, as his company already 
held residential  flats. His companys accountants  (who  were not BDONI) ensured the 
investments were properly accounted for. 
As it became difficult to obtain  lending on HMO  properties, they set up the new 
property company to achieve this  but werent successful in obtaining lending to buy 
properties with the pension money.  So the funds  were left in deposit with the property 
scheme and have now been  lost.
The limited  evidence of statements  we have from the property scheme  does suggest Mr L 
invested some further tranches of cash which werent facilitated from his pension  by BDONI:
-£33,454 at the same  time as his first investment
-a further £120,000 later in 2010 plus £105,000  in August 2011.  
Mr P has reminded Mr L that he crystallised  another Aegon Pension and took a tax free 
lump sum of £231,657.87 and transferred that across  to (as far as I am aware) purchase  
Ref: DRN54986829property through  [the scheme]. It doesnt appear that BDONI was involved in any of these 
further investments,  although I am aware  Mrs L did make an investment using her own 
pension (with which  BDONI was involved, and I understand she has complained  about  this 
separately).
Mr L provided a copy of the slides from the property scheme presentation he attended  with 
BDONI. BDONI is mentioned as the company tax adviser, although a different firm is listed 
as the client tax adviser. There is no further mention of BDONI in the slides, but Im also 
aware that BDONIs name appears  as Accountants and Tax Advisers  on a brochure for the 
scheme. We asked BDONI  to comment on the allegation that it had backed  or endorsed  the 
scheme by virtue of its name. It didnt agree that it had given permission for its name to 
appear on any promotional material.
The adjudicator has attempted to establish  what  evidence  is available  to substantiate the 
return (such  as it was) Mr L received from the investment; in view of  BDONIs earlier 
willingness to consider if it should pay compensation.  Mr L provided some  evidence from his 
bank statements of the payments going  to and from the SIPP, his personal  and company 
accounts, and the property  scheme.  
She shared this information with BDONI, but it seems BDONI remains concerned  that there 
is difficulty establishing that the money  from Mr Ls pension has been  completely lost  when 
he did obtain a return on other sums he invested  in the property scheme. As a result of the 
above impasse I would  like to extend  my apologies for the length of time it has taken for 
Mr Ls case to reach this stage. 
Given that BDONI didnt  originally issue a final response to Mr Ls complaint, I havent  been 
able to establish that it has set out at any point whether it stands by the advice it gave  Mr L. 
However that doesnt have a bearing on the view I must independently  reach on whether I 
think BDONI  provided suitable advice. Im aware  as a result  of a number of other  complaints 
this service has received  that BDONI doesnt  consider its actions  caused  the investment  
losses in the particular circumstances of a case such as Mr Ls. Should BDONI wish to 
expand on its position further, it can of course  do so in response to this provisional decision. 
For completeness, I should add that any previous indications BDONI  may have given about 
a possible review do not bind it to making an offer of compensation to Mr L. As our 
adjudicator recently  informed both parties, in view of the complexity of the case  an 
ombudsman will be issuing a provisional decision  on the merits of Mr Ls complaint. It now 
falls to me to issue that provisional decision. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
did BDONI  advise Mr L to invest in the property scheme?
Im satisfied based on Mr Ls testimony that BDONI wasnt responsible  for introducing him to 
the idea of investing in the property scheme; that seems to have unfortunately come  about 
through a family connection. Ive also taken into account Mr Ls admitted prior experience  of 
investing in residential property through  his own company. That indicates in my view that he 
had a predisposition for making this type of investment and an understanding  of the likely 
returns it could generate. 
Ref: DRN549868210Mr Ls testimony also refers to some (short-lived) speculation, several  years  earlier,  that 
pension funds would be able to invest in residential property. His awareness of this further 
suggests in my view that this had been something hed been hoping  to do within  his pension  
had it been possible  to do so. So weighing all of this up I think he would have been attracted 
to the idea both of extending his involvement  in residential property investments  and also 
using his pension  fund to do so.
Ive considered carefully what Mr L has said about  the presentation he went  to, and BDONIs  
attendance. There  doesnt seem  to be any doubt that BDONI had been advising Mr B and 
others on setting up the property scheme, and that there was some arrangement in place for 
referring customers to BDONI  who wanted  to invest using their pension. However BDONI 
denies that it agreed for its name to be used to promote the scheme itself. Im not satisfied 
that BDONIs attendance at the event, or its name  being mentioned as an associated party 
on the brochure, constituted it promoting  the scheme or being responsible for claims made 
by the promoters  (who  were separately  responsible) of the returns  available.
Furthermore and whilst Mr L may understandably now see it differently,  Im not satisfied in 
any event that getting  this apparent  endorsement by BDONI  was pivotal in Mr Ls decision to 
invest in the scheme  at the time. I note that he went on to invest  further  sums  from his own 
capital, which I havent been able to establish  BDONI discussed with him in specific  detail. 
Those investments  apparently turned out better  than the ones he made from his pension. 
But I dont consider Mr L could reasonably have expected BDONI to be responsible  for those 
investments because he made his own choice to make them. So I think Mr L would still have 
wanted to invest  money  from his pension even if there had been a clearer separation 
between BDONIs involvement with the scheme  and as his adviser.
Mr L says in his complaint  that BDONI described  the property scheme as low risk, although 
I note that the formulation of the complaint  is identical to others this service  has received. 
Thats not to say that there in all likelihood probably  was a very positive  spin placed on the 
scheme by the promoters themselves, because this wasnt a regulated investment scheme 
subject to the oversight of the FCA. But Im mindful of how the complaint has been  brought 
about when considering if I can accept  this as an accurate  recollection  of how BDONI itself  
described the scheme to Mr L.
BDONIs position is that it didnt advise Mr L to invest in the property scheme. So the file 
note that once property investment had been  undertaken  it will provide sufficient income 
to the pension in order to repay the debt causes me some  concern.  Whilst it isnt necessarily 
a verbatim statement of what BDONI said to Mr L in the meeting, considering the position  
BDONI has taken I would expect it would  have wanted to be careful not to give assurances 
as to the likely returns  Mr L might expect. 
However Mr L had already invested in residential  property and would, in my view,  have been 
aware that the returns were dependent on the properties being rented, and indeed  in this 
case sourced and refurbished by the counterparty  Mr Bs company. I dont consider Mr L 
was financially unsophisticated  or that he would have come across  this way to BDONI  
even if, as it initially noted, he didnt have much  experience of pensions themselves. So on 
balance, I cant say that BDONI was giving guarantees about  the property scheme, on the 
basis of which Mr L then invested. And Im not persuaded Mr L would reasonably  have 
thought it was a low risk scheme, even if it seems  to be the case that he didnt fully 
appreciate what all the risks were.
Ive said the property scheme itself was unregulated. But where the advice involves a 
personal pension  (such as a SIPP), the personal pension itself is a specified investment   
and its caught  by the regulated activity  advising  on investments. So what  the Financial 
Ref: DRN549868211Ombudsman Service can consider is the advice Mr L received to transfer from the SSAS to 
the SIPP, and to make a succession of investments, including  the plan debt, within  the SIPP.
transfer from the SSAS
I note that BDONI sought to limit its responsibility  for any losses caused by transferring from 
the SSAS into the SIPP. But that doesnt make  any difference to the fact that it was 
recommending the SIPP  itself  for the sole purpose,  as far as I can see, of facilitating a plan 
debt. So the key issue is whether arranging a plan debt was suitable for Mr L. If it was, I can 
accept that there was a need  to transfer  from the SSAS to the SIPP given the specialist 
administration involved.
BDONI would still have been responsible  for checking if Mr L stood to lose benefits from 
transferring from the SSAS to the SIPP, as thats  part and parcel  of advising that a transfer 
was suitable. But Ive taken into account that Mr P also continued to be involved in Mr Ls 
financial planning. It doesnt appear  that there were any penalties to transfer the SSAS 
investments, but in regards to any other features of the existing plans Mr L held (and there 
may, of course, have  been  none  of note) its likely  Mr Ps firm would have been more  familiar 
than BDONI  of what those  were.  So in the particular  circumstances  of this case  I think  
BDONI did enough to caution Mr L to discuss these aspects of the existing SSAS  with his 
adviser.
did the pension  debt arrangement require HMRC approval?
Ive considered Mr Ls suggestion that BDONI was secretive about what the approach was. 
That may have been  true of the presentation they attended, but in the reports  it issued  
BDONI was transparent  about the HMRC regulations it was relying on.
A pension  debt arrangement was explained  at a specific page  in HMRCs Registered 
Pension Schemes Manual  (RPSM). It began by explaining that loans from a pension scheme 
to members (or those connected  to members)  were  not permitted, and any such  loans made  
will be taxed  as an unauthorised payment.  However it went on to explain that a debt could 
exist where a pension  scheme had sold an asset to a member, but the member hadnt paid 
for the asset straight  away. And that debt would then be formalised in an agreement  for it to 
be repaid on an arms  length basis. 
The apparent contradiction between a pension debt and a loan means there  were  potentially 
significant risks to giving  advice  in this area, as it was based  heavily on BDONIs 
interpretation of the HMRC  rules. I think BDONI was right to recognise that its method of 
releasing money from the SIPP  along  these lines could potentially be subject to challenge. 
But that doesnt mean it was required to register or otherwise gain approval for a plan debt to 
be set up. Im not aware  that HMRC requires advice  given by a tax adviser on a pension to 
be disclosed, as it may do when  certain  tax planning  schemes  are used outside a pension.
Its clear that BDONIs advice on the pension debt arrangement was based on the RPSM, 
and the arrangement was also accepted  by Mr Ls SIPP provider. The regulations already 
catered for the possibility that the arrangement could subsequently be deemed an 
unauthorised payment  (with the associated tax charges), and this risk was disclosed to Mr L 
in BDONIs advice. But the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a tax authority,  so ultimately 
any determination on the compliance of the arrangement  is a matter for HMRC itself.
Mr Ls complaint has come about not because the pension debt arrangement has been  
called into question, but because of the failure of the investment he made.  So the question 
for me to answer is whether the advice was suitable for Mr L overall. Whilst it doesnt appear 
Ref: DRN549868212that BDONI actually advised Mr L to invest in the HMO property scheme,  the issue  is the 
extent to which BDONI should have taken Mr Ls expressed intentions  with investing the 
money into account in its overall advice that a plan debt was suitable for him.
was BDONIs advice to set up the pension debt arrangement suitable?
Although BDONI didnt  always refer to the property scheme in its notes and letters as the 
purpose of the investment, it needed to take the ultimate destination  of the funds  into 
account when  it advised Mr L. Thats because in order to ensure that it was providing 
suitable advice,  the regulators rules required it to take into account Mr Ls investment 
objectives. Rule COBS  9.2.2 refers:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary  for the firm to understand 
the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis  for believing, giving due consideration 
to the nature and extent  of the service provided, that the specific  transaction to be recommended, 
or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets  his investment  objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related  investment  risks consistent  with his 
investment objectives; and
(c) is such  that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge  in order to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction or in the management  of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include,  where relevant, 
information on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his preferences  
regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must  include, where relevant,  
information on the source  and extent of his regular income, his assets, including  liquid assets, 
investments and real property, and his regular  financial  commitments.
Mr Ls objectives werent just to release  funds  from his pension, but to invest  those funds in 
the HMO property scheme. I cant see that Mr L had any need  to release the funds had it not 
been for the scheme. So even though on the facts of this case BDONI didnt recommend the 
property scheme to Mr L, in order to ensure  its advice was suitable overall I consider it 
needed to take into account,  and ensure Mr L understood  and could afford to bear, the risks 
both of:
-the pension  debt arrangement being challenged by HMRC;
-the failure of the counterparty or investments involved  in the HMO  property scheme 
Mr L was using  the debt to invest  in (which was not a regulated scheme).
BDONI gathered some cursory, but not particularly detailed information  about Mr Ls wider 
financial situation  although that is perhaps  explained by the overlap between  it and Mr Ls 
other adviser. But it still needed  to know its client. And in the specific circumstances of this 
case Im not satisfied that BDONI having fuller information about Mr Ls circumstances, or 
expressing reservations about the risks involved,  would have altered his clear preference  to 
utilise his pension for residential  property investment.
I say this noting that there were already  risks evident in buying  residential property (including 
borrowing to do so) and letting it out, of which I think Mr L would reasonably have been  
aware. The risks were higher here because for an initial period, all of Mr Ls investment  
would be handed  over to a counterparty (which  was not a bank)   and he would only receive  
interest, but an attractive rate of interest commensurate with the risk.
BDONI described Mr L as a high-risk investor,  a classification with which he didnt disagree 
and, looking at the wider evidence,  I think this is plausible in the circumstances. He had a 
sizeable pension fund,  on a part of which he had the capacity to bear significant risk. Hed 
been willing  to invest money through his business  on letting out flats, and I note he was not 
Ref: DRN549868213deterred from the pension debt arrangement, which BDONI affirmed  was high risk and 
subject to penal tax charges if it was challenged. In fact Mr L increased the risk further, 
which was not on BDONIs suggestion, by routing the money through  his own company  in 
an arrangement which  would also have come within the purview  of his companys tax 
adviser.
Its relevant to note in this case that Mr Ls SSAS was already being  advised upon by Mr P. 
We dont know what assets  the SSAS was invested in but such a scheme  is typically set up 
on the basis that it will allow access to higher  risk investments (such as the business 
property Mr L later indicated he was considering buying). The SSAS  was also of a sufficient 
size that Mr L could conceivably contemplate making investments into less liquid assets,  as 
it gave him some capacity  for loss.
In Mr Ls complaint he said the investment  was a substantial amount  of his pension.  It was a 
significant, but I dont agree substantial amount  unless perhaps the later tax-free cash sum 
(which BDONI doesnt seem to have been  involved in releasing) is also taken into account. 
At the time Mr L initially  wanted to invest  £165,000, Im persuaded that this was a portion of 
Mr Ls pension that he was willing to put at risk for the potential of the attractive (but by no 
means guaranteed)  returns  of the property scheme. 
Taking all of the above into account, it seems to me that had BDONI  highlighted the risks of 
the property scheme  itself in the same  way as it highlighted the risks of the plan debt, its 
unlikely Mr L would  have  been deterred from investing in it. BDONI could not of course 
accurately forecast  that the scheme would fail, and when  and its not entirely clear why it 
failed. 
And having seen  the process  complete successfully, Mr L was then prepared to invest a 
slightly smaller  second tranche from his pension in the scheme. I agree that this should 
reasonably have prompted BDONI to express greater concern about the total amount Mr L 
was investing,  although I note that it did highlight to him that there was a risk of 
overconcentration in a single asset.
Whats potentially of more concern in any case is that Mr L could have taken  a similar 
amount of tax-free  cash in the form of pension benefits to make  the same  investments. I 
appreciate there might  have been issues with Mr Ls lifetime allowance being  crystallised  if 
he took benefits, but Im not satisfied  this was weighed up against  the risk of potential tax 
charges, even if BDONI  did explain what those risks were. But my understanding  is that at a 
later point, Mr L proceeded to use up his tax-free  cash allowance  to invest further in the 
property scheme anyway, and this was not on BDONIs advice.  
So in my view Mr L is likely in the position  he would always  have been  in, even if hed started  
by accessing his tax-free cash  sum first. Mr Ls losses  are also not due to tax charges hes 
suffered, but the failure of the property  scheme.
The regulators rules didnt prevent BDONI from carrying  out a transaction Mr L was already 
very keen  to make, if it was prepared to do so despite expressing  reservations  to Mr L about 
the risks involved. In the particular circumstances  of this case, it would have been 
reasonable in my view for BDONI to believe that Mr L understood and accepted  the risks if it 
had set these  out in more detail. It would also have been credible that he would want to 
make both the tranches of investment that BDONI  knew about, when taking into account  his 
background and experience. 
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr L finds himself in, if (as he believes is the case) 
his funds in the property  scheme have been misappropriated. But this is effectively the 
Ref: DRN549868214culmination of one of the risks that was always present in an unregulated investment 
scheme. Even if Mr L understandably downplayed that risk at the time on the basis of the 
confidence he had in the property scheme, I cant reasonably conclude that someone of his 
background and experience wasnt aware  that this was, potentially,  a key risk. 
It may be possible  to identify things BDONI should  have done better, as I have done above  
but that doesnt necessarily mean  that its advice  was given with such  careless disregard for 
Mr Ls circumstances that BDONI  then becomes  liable for investment losses actually caused  
by a third party.  Thats  a matter for me to assess on the merits of each individual case  and 
Im not satisfied that this is the case here. BDONI could  potentially have cautioned him better 
about his exposure  to the risks in the scheme.  But ultimately I think Mr L was determined to 
invest in it. So I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr L, but I 
dont consider his complaint should  succeed.
my provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5498682