K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that a car he obtained through a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers Limited is not of satisfactory  quality.
He wants Close Brothers  to pay for repairs and to refund him for the cost of repairs hes 
already incurred.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 
27 December 2018, a copy of which is attached. I concluded that Close  Brothers was 
responsible for supplying  a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I said I was minded to require Close  Brothers  to either pay for repairs or to unwind the 
agreement. But I explained that I wouldnt be able to order Close Brothers  to repair  the car 
unless Mr B provided an estimate of the cost of all of the outstanding repairs as detailed  in 
the independent report.
I invited both parties to provide further  evidence and comments; and for Mr B to provide the 
evidence Id asked  for.
Close Brothers said it had nothing further to add.
Mr B provided a copy of the MOT from November 2018, which  showed  the car had failed 
because of corroded brake  pipes. He provided the invoice for the MOT  and the cost of 
cleaning the brake pipes.  He also sent a further  copy of his conditional sale agreement 
which he said shows he part exchanged  his car when he obtained this one. He also said,  in 
summary, that:
He wants to keep  the car, having spent a lot of money on it. Hes spent £701.31, or 
£1,902.25 including  the new gearbox.
He summarised the problems hed had with the car and the number of miles the dealer 
drove the car on the four occasions it had to be returned  to the garage.
He said a garage had told him the oil leak was due to a hole in the gearbox oil pan, so 
he paid to have this, and a filter, replaced
He explained how the expense of the car has caused  him financial problems and that 
the worry is now impacting on his health.
Mr B didnt provide  an estimate of the outstanding repairs as detailed  in the independent  
report (as I requested).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56823442I am sorry  for the position in which  Mr B now finds himself and Im sorry to hear of the impact  
the worry of this has had on his health and well being. But I need to decide  what  a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint is for both parties. 
Both parties  agree that the car which was supplied to Mr B wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
I need to decide how to put this right. 
I set out in my provisional decision two alternatives  for Close  Brothers to either pay for the 
outstanding repairs  listed in the independent report;  or to allow Mr B to reject the car and 
cancel the agreement.
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think it would be fair to order Close  Brothers 
to pay for the outstanding repairs, unless I had an estimate of those repairs.  Unfortunately,  
Mr B hasnt provided an estimate of the cost of the outstanding repairs.  So I dont know 
whether the option of carrying out the remaining repairs, as detailed  in the independent 
report, is financially  viable. So I cant order  Close Brothers  to do this.
This means  the only way to resolve  this matter is for Close Brothers to allow Mr B to reject 
the car. Mr B has made it clear he wants to keep the car. But, because he hasnt provided 
the repairs estimate, allowing him to reject the car is the only fair resolution left to me.
I asked Mr B to provide  evidence that he part exchanged  his old car when  he took out the 
agreement for this one. Hes provided a copy of the finance agreements  for this car and his 
previous car, which he obtained a couple  of months earlier. When  Mr B obtained  the car in 
October 2017, he didnt  own a vehicle that could be made available  for part exchange. He 
had a car that was already the subject of a finance  agreement. So there wasnt  any value 
which I can now ask Close Brothers to reimburse him for.
When he took out the first agreement, in August 2017, I can see he paid a cash deposit of 
£400, so I think  its fair that this is refunded to him.
I thought it was fair that Close Brothers had refunded four months payments to reflect the 
time the cars been  off the road. Mr B said he could only drive  the car in good weather 
because of the water leak  but Close Brothers  isnt responsible for this from March  2018 
when Mr Bs friend carried out a repair. Mr B then said he couldnt  drive the car since  it 
developed a problem with the gearbox. But I explained in my provisional decision that 
I hadnt seen evidence to show that the problem with the gearbox was present or developing 
when the car was supplied. So I cant hold Close Brothers responsible  for this. So I dont 
conclude Close Brothers needs to refund any further  payments.
I can see from the invoices hes sent me that Mr B has spent a lot of money on parts and 
repairs. But, with three exceptions, the invoices hes sent me are for items  which  werent 
listed as faults  in the independent report. And I havent seen evidence to show that these 
were present  at the date of supply. Mr B spent money on the car, knowing it had faults which 
hadnt been corrected and which could  potentially have caused other faults and problems. 
And Close Brothers had already accepted  in February 2018  that it would consider paying  
for the required repairs if Mr B obtained an estimate.  In the circumstances, I cant  order 
Close Brothers to refund  the costs hes incurred.
Ref: DRN56823443Mr B did pay for new brake pads and discs. And he says a garage  investigated  the oil leak 
and told him the car needed  a new gearbox  oil pan. So the cost of these - £86.42 and £70  -  
plus the cost of a new gearbox filter and oil - £82  should be reimbursed if he accepts  my 
final decision. 
If Mr B chooses not to accept my decision, he will keep the car which he is still required to 
pay for under the terms of the agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that Close Brother  Limited should:
1.Allow Mr B to reject  the car and end his finance agreement.
2.Collect the car from Mr B at a mutually  convenient time to both parties.
3.Refund the cash deposit  paid in August 2017 of £400. 
4.Pay Mr B £238.42 for the cost of brake pads and discs, the gearbox oil pan and the 
gearbox filter and oil.
5.Remove any adverse information about  the finance agreement  from Mr Bs credit report.
6.Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced as a 
result of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56823444copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that a car he obtained through a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited is not of satisfactory  quality.
He wants Close Brothers to pay for repairs  and to refund him for the cost of repairs hes already 
incurred.
background
Mr B obtained  a second hand car in October  2017,  financed through a conditional  sale agreement  
with Close Brothers.
Within a month, Mr B had complained to Close Brothers about the quality of the car. The supplying 
garage offered  to repair any faults, except those which it considered were  due to wear  and tear. It 
said, alternatively, it would take the car back,  arrange for the agreement  to be unwound and return the 
car Mr B had given it in part exchange.
Mr B didnt want his old car back. And he couldnt afford to settle the negative  equity of around £5,000 
which forms part of the agreement.
By January  2018, Mr B was reporting further problems with the car and Close Brothers paid for an 
independent report. The report  identified  several  faults and concluded that all were  present or 
developing when the car was supplied.
Close Brothers accepted the reports findings. It asked Mr B to obtain a quote  for the cost of the 
required repairs so that it could decide if repair was financially viable.
In March Mr B took the car back to the supplying  garage  and  rather than obtaining a quote  agreed 
to it carrying out some  repairs. It replaced  the front brake disc pads,  the exhaust  and the battery. It 
wouldnt repair other items which it either said werent  faulty or were due to wear and tear.
Close Brothers refunded  Mr B £861.68  for not being able to use the car and considered the matter  
settled.
But Mr B said he wanted all faults  listed in the independent report  to be repaired and that the water 
leak was worse.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that Close 
Brothers should:
 Arrange to repair  the outstanding items on the independent report.
 On receipt of evidence, refund Mr B for the cost of new exhaust clamps and repairs to fix the 
water ingress.
 Pay Mr B £100 for the upset hes experienced.
Close Brothers didnt agree. It said Mr B hadnt obtained a quote for repairs. Instead  hed agreed with 
the supplying garage what repairs it would  complete, without any reference to Close  Brothers.  And it 
said it had a right to unwind  the agreement if the cost of repair wasnt financially  viable.
Mr B said the car had now developed  more faults  it needed  a new gearbox, oil pan and drive  shaft 
oil seal. The investigator said Mr B would need to obtain an independent  report to evidence  if these  
newly reported faults were present when  the car was supplied.
Ref: DRN56823445my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard  to the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider 
to have been  good industry practice at the time.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Close  Brothers is the supplier of goods under this agreement and is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied  term that the quality 
of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be persuaded that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality and so a breach  of contract  has taken  place.
In deciding whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I have considered  the independent report. This 
confirmed the following faults were present:
Water ingress  in the rear floor area.
Front bumper and bonnet mis-aligned.
Deteriorated rear exhaust.
Engine oil leak.
Anti-roll bar bushes faulty.
Brake pipes and unions faulty  and corroded.
Brake discs  and pads faulty.
Offside and nearside lower arm suspension bushes faulty.
It recommended:
1. The following items be replaced:
Rear exhaust
Anti-roll bar bushes
Brake pipes and unions
Brake discs  and pads
Offside and nearside lower arm suspension bushes.
2. The front panel be repaired  to a commercially acceptable standard.
3. Further investigation was required into the water ingress and the engine oil leak to identify what 
repairs were needed.
In March 2018  the supplying garage carried  out the following repairs at no cost to Mr B:
 Replaced the front brake discs  pads.
 Replaced the exhaust.
 Supplied a replacement battery.
It refused to carry out other repairs because it considered them to be due to wear and tear. I dont 
agree. The independent engineer considered that, because  Mr B had only driven the car around  827 
miles when the inspection was carried  out, that the faults wouldnt have  solely developed during the 
time he had the car. And Close Brothers has agreed with the conclusions  of the independent  report  
that the faults  noted  were present or developing  when the car was supplied.
Ref: DRN56823446It follows that I am minded  to conclude that Close Brothers  is responsible for supplying a car that isnt 
satisfactory.
putting things  right
To put matters right Im minded to require Close Brothers either to:
1. Pay for repairs
 Close  Brothers should pay for all repairs listed in the independent report  which havent  been 
repaired already, with the exception  of the water leak.
 Close  Brothers should reimburse Mr B  on receipt of evidence  - for the cost hes incurred for 
any repairs listed in the independent report.
 I cant hold Close Brothers liable  for repairing the roof. This is because  in March 2018 Mr B told 
us his friend  carried  out a repair  to the roof to try to fix the leak. But in October 2018, when  he 
asked a garage to investigate  the gearbox problem, it said:
The car came to us with the passengers rear foot well full of water,  the car has a serious  water 
leak from the rear roof membrane, you will continue to have rain water ingression  until this is fully 
repaired, the water ingression will damage your cars operation.
I cant  now safely conclude whether the current leak is the one that as present when the car was 
supplied. It may have  been caused by, or made  worse  by, the repair that Mr Bs friend  carried 
out.
Or alternatively to:
2. Unwind the agreement
 To allow  Mr B to reject  the car and end his finance agreement;
 I havent  seen evidence to show that Mr B paid a cash deposit or part exchanged a vehicle  when 
he entered into this agreement. If Mr B has evidence to show that he part exchanged his old car, 
he should provide it so that I can consider if he should be reimbursed.
In either case,  Im minded to require Close Brothers:
 Not to charge Mr B for the time the cars been  off the road. Close Brothers has already  refunded 
Mr B four months  payments. And it seems to me that Mr B has been able to drive  the car  up 
until the gearbox  failed. He will need to provide further information and evidence if Im to order 
Close Brothers to refund any further payments.
 To remove any adverse  information  about the finance agreement from Mr Bs credit report.
 To pay Mr B £200  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience hes experienced as a result  
of this matter.
Through the investigator, I asked Mr B to get an estimate for the repairs, but Mr B hasnt  provided one 
yet. I understand he is arranging  to send us a copy  of the MOT and the cost of repairs  required, which 
may include some of the items listed  in the independent report. I will consider this when it is received.
In the absence  of an estimate for all the repairs, I wont be able to order Close Brothers to pay for 
repairs as detailed in my first alternative.
Ref: DRN56823447If he doesnt provide an estimate, or if the estimate shows the cost of repair isnt likely  to be financially  
viable, then Im likely  to direct Close  Brothers to unwind the agreement, as detailed  in my second 
alternative. In this case, Mr B may well end up owing Close Brothers money  under  the terms of the 
agreement because of any negative equity  that was included in the loan. But this remains a fair 
resolution because Mr B will effectively be back in the position he was in before he obtained this car.
All this is reliant  on Mr B accepting my decision. If he chooses  not to accept my final decision, he will 
keep the car which he is still required to pay for under  the terms of the agreement.
Finally, since  he referred his complaint to us, Mr B says the gearbox failed and he has paid to have it 
replaced. I havent seen evidence to show that there was a problem with the gearbox when the car 
was supplied (it wasnt covered in the independent report), so I cant hold Close Brothers responsible 
for the costs  Mr B has incurred as a result of this fault  including the cost of towing the car to a 
garage and the failed MOT.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
currently minded  to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Close Brothers Limited on the terms set out 
above.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5682344