K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly blocked  and closed his account. He says this 
caused him financial difficulty, stress  and inconvenience. He wants  TSB Bank  to provide an 
explanation for its actions.  And reopen his account.
background
Mr C had a current account  with TSB Bank.
On 2 December  2018, TSB Bank  reviewed  Mr Cs account.  Whilst  it carried  out its review it 
placed a block  on the account.  This meant Mr C couldnt access the money  in his account or 
make any transactions  out of the account.   
On 7 December  2018, TSB Bank  removed  the block. Following this Mr C was able to use his 
account normally. TSB Bank also wrote to Mr C to let him know  it had decided to close  his 
account, giving him 60 days  notice to make alternative banking  arrangements.
Mr C says he has operated his account properly for several years and hasnt done anything  
wrong. Hes explained  that he uses the account  to make payments for the up keep  of a 
property he owns in the UK. Mr C says the block on his account  caused him a great deal of 
stress and inconvenience. In particular, he says direct debits for the running costs of his 
house werent paid from his account  due to the block on the account.
TSB Bank said it hadnt done anything wrong. And it had blocked and then closed Mr Cs 
account in line with the account terms and conditions. Mr C wasnt happy with this response.  
He wants TSB Bank to given him an explanation  for why it blocked  his account. 
An investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint. She said whilst she acknowledged Mr C had 
been distressed  and inconvenienced by the block to his account,  she said TSB Bank  hadnt  
done anything  wrong when it blocked  and closed Mr Cs account. Mr C disagreed.  Hes still 
upset by what happened and wants TSB Bank  to provide him with a proper explanation 
about why it blocked his account.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr C has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate Mr C is upset  that TSB Bank  blocked and closed his account. And 
that this has caused him inconvenience.  
Mr C says he hasnt done anything which would cause TSB Bank  to block  his account. Hes 
pointed out that he has complied with all tax laws and explained  that he uses  the account 
mainly to cover the costs  of running  his property. And that may be the case. But the terms 
and conditions that apply to Mr Cs accounts outline  the circumstances in which TSB Bank 
can block an account. And having considered those terms carefully, and the circumstances  
of this case, Im satisfied  TSB Bank acted in line with them. So, I cant say TSB Bank did 
anything wrong  when it blocked  Mr Cs account.
Ref: DRN57034982account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both TSB Bank and Mr C had to comply 
with  say that it could  close  the account by giving Mr C two months  notice. TSB Bank has 
done this. So, its entitled to close the account  as it seems its already done.
I know Mr C is frustrated that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation why his account  
was blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions TSB Bank doesnt have to 
give a reason for doing so  in the same  way a customer doesnt have to, should  they no 
longer want to bank  with them. So, I cant say TSB Bank has done anything wrong by not 
giving Mr C this information  as much  as hed like to know.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr C feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision, but 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say TSB Bank have acted  unreasonably  
and treated Mr C unfairly when it blocked  and closed his account. So, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5703498