K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  didnt return a leather tool kit he said was in his 
car. He said this went missing after UKI collected  his car to complete repairs to it, during a 
claim made under his motor insurance  policy.  
background
Mr S car was damaged when it was parked.  So, he needed to make a claim under his motor 
insurance policy for repairs to be completed.
UKI appointed a representative to collect Mr S car and inspect the damage to it. Mr S has 
explained that when a driver from this representative came to collect his car he asked where 
the locking wheel nut was. Mrs S wife, who was present when the car was being collected,  
didnt know the answer  to this. So, she called Mr S who told her it was in a leather tool kit in 
the boot. Mr S says Mrs S then gave the leather case to this driver,  who placed  it in the cars 
boot. So, Mr S is satisfied the leather tool kit was present when the vehicle  was handed to 
UKI.
But, he has explained that on the return of his vehicle the leather tool kit was no longer 
there. He noted  it had instead been  replaced with a toolkit made of blue cloth, with less tools,  
and a different  locking  wheel nut. 
Mr S raised his concerns with UKI. It said it had spoken to the driver,  who said they hadnt  
seen the leather kit. And that the garage had no reason to use the kit, because  it only 
conducted a visual inspection of the vehicle. So, it didnt  think the item was either stolen or 
swapped at the garage. But, it said as a gesture  of goodwill it was willing  to replace the 
leather toolkit,  and provide Mr T with £50 compensation for the trouble and upset he had 
experienced. 
But when the replacement toolkit arrived this wasnt as expected  it was still a cloth  one, 
and Mr S says it had less tools too. UKI said Mr S could keep this toolkit, and the £50 offered  
to him. Or he could  choose to accept £100  instead. Mr S didnt  feel this was fair. He has 
explained he had a leather toolkit before his car was given to UKI, and he would like this 
back  or a cash settlement for the value of the toolkit. Which he said was worth  around 
£450 based on information  he had seen online.
Our investigator didnt  think this case should be upheld. He didnt think  there  was sufficient 
evidence to suggest the tool was stolen or lost by UKI. So he felt UKIs offer of the cloth 
toolkit and £50, or £100 in total was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree. He reiterated the information  given to us and UKI about what  happened 
when his car was collected. And noted the information he had previously sent about the 
value of the toolkit. Because Ms S didnt agree his complaint has been referred to me to 
decide. 
Ref: DRN53877582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  So, I dont require  UKI to do anything  more. I know this is going to be 
disappointing to Mr S. From reading  all of the information provided to me its clear he feels 
strongly about this. But Ive explained the reasons for my decision below.
Mr S has said he had a leather toolkit  containing  12 tools. And he feels  this has either 
been stolen or misplaced  by UKI after it came  to collect his car. To ask UKI to pay for the 
toolkit I would need to have firm evidence this was stolen,  lost or misplaced by it. So, Ive 
looked at the evidence  provided to me, to decide whether I think  there  is sufficient evidence  
to show this is what is likely to have  happened. 
Mr S has given  details of what happened  when  Mrs S handed over the toolkit  to the driver  
who came  to collect the car. And in this he has explained the toolkit was leather, and was 
handed specifically  to the driver. The driver  disagrees with this  and says the item wasnt 
handed to them  and they didnt see this. Both parties clearly recollect the event differently. 
And I have  little evidence  from either side to show which recollection is more  accurate or 
likely. 
UKI said it didnt go into the boot when it inspected Mr S car after collection. It said it only 
completed a visual inspection of the vehicle, because it was satisfied just by looking at the 
car that it wouldnt be able to conduct a successful  repair. So, it knew  it would need to 
provide a cash settlement in lieu of the necessary work. I have no reason to doubt this was 
the case. A cash  settlement  was provided to Mr S. And, I dont think I can fairly say someone 
from the insurer went into the boot and took a leather toolkit, swapping it for a leather one 
based on the information I have.  I dont have any evidence of anyone entering the boot  or 
any firm evidence of the specifications of the toolkit in the boot at the time. Given  this, Im not 
persuaded that UKI took,  lost or misplaced a toolkit. 
In any event, even  if I were to accept  a leather toolkit and its tools  were stolen, lost or 
misplaced by UKI, I dont  have sufficient evidence to say the offer UKI has already made to 
Mr S is unfair. Mr S has provided a screenshot from the internet of a leather toolkit he has 
explained was similar to the one he owned.  The picture is of a vintage leather toolkit   
retailing abroad.  Mr S said the toolkit came  with his car, and that the previous  owner  of the 
car must have purchased  it. But the screenshot of the toolkit Mr S has provided  appears to 
be for a different  model car to the one Mr S owns.  And I havent seen any other  firm 
evidence to show this is the toolkit Mr S owned. So, I cant  be sure the toolkit Mr S had was 
the same  as this one, or of equal  value.
UKI has provided Mr S with the option to accept £100 as a gesture of goodwill  or £50 and 
the cloth toolkit. I appreciate why Mr S may not want the cloth toolkit   his concern was that 
his leather toolkit was replaced with a lesser  value cloth one. But I think  the offer UKI has 
provided is fair, given  there isnt enough evidence to show Mr S toolkit  was misplaced or 
stolen by UKI. Or that it was worth  more than this offer. So, I dont require UKI to do anything  
more. 
Ref: DRN53877583my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require UK 
Insurance Limited to do anything more than its already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5387758