K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt  downgrade his 
fee-paying packaged bank account  when he requested it.
background
In 2016, Mr M complained  that his fee-paying Advantage Gold  packaged bank account had 
been mis-sold. NatWest  upheld the complaint and provided Mr M with a refund of the 
account fees, plus interest. Following this, Mr M says he called NatWest to downgrade his 
account and says he was told that it would happen  automatically.
However, recently Mr M has noticed  that his account is still a fee-paying packaged bank 
account.
One of our adjudicators assessed  this and didnt uphold the complaint as they couldnt find 
enough evidence  to show that Mr M had made  a request to downgrade his account.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where matters  are unclear or in 
dispute - as they are in this case  - I need to decide  what I think was most likely to have  
happened, based on all of the information and evidence that is available.
Mr M says that, following NatWest upholding his mis-sold  packaged bank account complaint 
in 2016, he called the dedicated account downgrade team  (using the contact details given  in 
NatWests final response  to his complaint). He says he was assured that his account would 
be downgraded  automatically, because NatWest  had accepted  that it should not have sold 
him the account.
However, NatWest says that it has never  had a policy of automatically downgrading 
packaged bank  accounts where  it has decided it had mis-sold  the account  to the consumer. 
Instead, NatWest says it has always been  its procedure to explain to the consumer how to 
go about downgrading their account  in the final response  which  involved contacting the 
downgrade team or a NatWest branch. And I note that the redress  included an extra amount 
to cover additional account fees that were due to be applied to the account, to give Mr M 
some time to downgrade. 
Unfortunately, because of how long ago his previous complaint was upheld, NatWest doesnt  
have any records of any calls that mayve been  made.
Having considered what both sides have said, I dont think  I can reasonably  conclude  that 
its more likely than not, that Mr M was incorrectly told that his packaged account would be 
downgraded automatically. Firstly, apart from Mr Ms testimony, there  is no evidence 
available to show that Mr M did make a clear request to downgrade his account and in turn 
was given incorrect advice. But, even if he did contact the downgrade team,  I find it unlikely 
that a team   whose sole purpose  is dealing with downgrade requests   told him it would  be 
automatically downgraded, when I understand that has never been a policy  of NatWest.
Ref: DRN53298422When Mr M did eventually downgrade his packaged account, he said that it was a thorough  
process and was informed about what changes would happen on his account. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that NatWests downgrading policy was substantially different  in 
2016. Therefore,  had Mr M made  a clear request to downgrade  his account to the 
downgrade team, I think its likely that he wouldve been taken through a similar, thorough, 
process in 2016,  rather than simply being told itd happen automatically. 
I note that Mr M has said that he was not aware that his account had not been downgraded  
until early 2019. However, given  the correspondence that was sent to him during the last 
three years, I think that NatWest has taken  reasonable steps to make  him aware that his 
account was still a Select Platinum account. 
Mr M has also said that his account  was upgraded to a Select Platinum account without his 
knowledge. But his account was changed to a Select Platinum  account  on 8 July 2015, 
which was before NatWest issued  its final response letter in June 2016  which found in his 
favour. So, I dont think his concerns about  how it was changed are relevant to this 
complaint, as this complaint concerns what happened after NatWest  issued its final 
response letter in June 2016.
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by this decision. But overall, Ive not seen enough  
to say that its more  likely than not that Mr M was incorrectly told by NatWest that his 
account would be automatically downgraded to a fee-free account. 
It follows that I dont think NatWest should  refund  Mr Ms packaged account fees that hes 
been charged since 2016, as I cant say that his account not being downgraded in 2016  was, 
on balance, because of something that NatWest had done wrong.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5329842