K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy with the increases on his premiums on his home  insurance  policy, held with 
Gresham Insurance Company Limited (GICL). GICL is a member of the Aviva group.
background 
Mr D took out home insurance in 1999  through his bank (Bank  B). GICL became the 
insurer / underwriter of Mr Ds policy from September  2005.
In September  2005, Mr Ds policy cost £531.97.  The policys cost increased over the years 
and in 2016, Mr Ds premium was £1,451.87.
Mr Ds policy  automatically renewed  each year and Mr D says he doesnt  consider  he has 
been treated fairly as his premiums kept increasing  over the years.  
Mr D had several claims in between 2014 and 2017.  Mr D contacted GICL in 2015  to see if 
his premium could be reduced with GICL providing  a £50 discount. Mr D also contacted 
GICL again in 2017 with GICL explaining it couldnt offer Mr D insurance at a lesser  cost.
Unhappy, Mr D complained and referred his complaint to this service.
While the complaint was with our service, GICL offered to refund some  of the cost of the 
insurance. 
GICL offered  to the refund to Mr D the amount paid above the 2009  premium from 2010 up 
until 2014 (totalling £595.27). Its offer also included an amount  of compensation set at 8% 
per year simple interest to compensate Mr D for being out of pocket of that money  (totalling  
£339.13). GICL also offered an additional £100 as compensation  for the trouble Mr D had 
been caused. So GICLs total offer to Mr D came to £1,034.40
But GICL  says in 2014, 2016 and 2017  Mr D made several claims for escape of water 
under his home insurance with it paying approximately £8,500 in total. As Mr D had claimed, 
GICL says the risk of insuring Mr D had increased   and his premiums went up in line with 
that increased risk. It also explained Mr D lost his no claims discount which further  impacted  
his premium in those years. 
So GICL  says it doesnt consider the years  from 2014 onwards should be included within its 
offer as there were genuine  risk related reasons for the premiums increasing.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought GICLs offer was a fair way to resolve 
things.
As Mr D disagreed, and as the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to clarify a couple of points  for the benefit  of Mr D.
Ref: DRN51645682Mr D was also unhappy with the sale of his home  insurance, believing  it was too expensive  
from the start and was mis-sold to him. Any concerns about  the sale of the home insurance 
would need to be taken up separately  with Bank B - who sold Mr D his initial  policy in 1999. 
GICL, as the underwriter, wasnt responsible for this. They are two separate businesses with 
different responsibilities  regarding the insurance. I understand Mr D already has made a 
separate complaint to Bank B and our service in respect of those concerns.
GICL became the underwriter of Mr Ds home insurance from 2005. This means it was 
responsible for setting  the cost of his insurance  each  year.  So Mr Ds concern about  the 
increase in his premiums  is something  that GICL is responsible for from the point it took over 
the policy in 2005. 
So within this decision I can only look at whether GICL, as the underwriter, treated Mr D 
fairly throughout the time he held his home insurance policy  with it from 2005 onwards.
If I find that GICL hasnt treated Mr D fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair, and in this case, whether I think what GICL has offered is fair.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think GICLs offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
When GICL underwrote Mr Ds policy in 2005, it cost £531.97 for the year. By 2016 the 
insurance cost £1,451.87.  Mr Ds policy did increase in cost over the years   so Ive looked 
to see what happened.
Mr Ds policy  automatically renewed  each year. With automatic renewals there is a chance 
that if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
In the early years Mr D held his policy GICL wouldnt have  been  aware  that he wasnt 
engaging with his renewals  that wouldnt have been known for some years. 
But by 2010, GICL should have  known Mr D wasnt engaging and Mr Ds premiums  
continued to increase each year.
To put things right in this type of situation, I would ask GICL  to keep Mr Ds yearly home 
insurance premium at 2009s price, paying Mr D the difference  he paid over that amount for 
each subsequent year thereafter.  
Ref: DRN51645683That is what  GICL has offered. It has offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance 
premiums Mr D paid from 2010. But in this case, GICL  considers  its offer should only go up 
to 2013 and the later years shouldnt be included.
Why hasnt GICL included  the years  after 2013  in its offer  and is this fair?
As explained above, an insurer  isnt necessary doing anything wrong by changing the 
premium each year at renewal  and this can happen for a number of reasons. 
Insurers will continually  reassess the risk a property  presents. If an insurer  thinks theres a 
greater risk than before,  the premium  will increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with 
this.
GICL says the later increases in Mr Ds premiums  were  for risk related reasons. So Ive 
looked to see what the reasons were.
In 2014, 2016 and 2017 GICL paid out approximately  £8,500 following three escape of 
water claims. Given these claims, GICL says the risk presented to it was greater and so the 
premium increase in the later years  was to reflect the associated  risk it now placed on Mr Ds 
property. Mr D also lost his no claims discount  which would have had an impact  on the 
renewal cost in those later years   
So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing from 2014 onwards. This means  that I agree that the premiums from 2014 
onwards dont need to be included in GICLs offer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds offer to refund some 
of the costs of Mr Ds home insurance  policy from 2010 until 2013 is fair.
Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100  for the trouble 
caused to Mr D is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164568