K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Money  plc charged him interest on his credit card when he paid 
the balance in full on the date it was due.
background
 
Mr P has a credit card with Virgin Money, which had previously been administered  by 
another provider.  He pays off his balance in full each month. 
One month he made his payment using his debit card online on the date it was due. But it 
didnt then show as crediting his account  until after this date. So Virgin Money  charged  him 
interest.
Mr P complained and was told that he should  have made the payment three days before the 
due date so it would  be cleared. He felt this wasnt  treating him fairly and asked  that the 
interest be refunded.  He said the previous credit card provider accepted payments instantly 
and it hadnt been made  clear to him this was any different  with Virgin  Money. 
Virgin Money said that Mr P had been  sent the terms and conditions of the credit  card which  
said You can find full details of how to pay, and how long to allow for payments to reach 
your account, on your statement. It can take up to seven business  days for the money to 
reach us, depending on the payment method  you have chosen. It said the monthly 
statements showed the various payments methods and that debit  card payments should be 
made at least three business days before the payment due date. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He said 
that both Virgin Moneys  website  and the credit  card statements said that debit card 
payments should  be made at least three business  days before the payment date. He said 
that, as the payment needed  to clear for it to be counted towards that months statement; he 
didnt think Virgin Money had charged the interest wrongly. He said that Virgin  Money is a 
different company with different terms of business to the previous credit  card provider. 
Mr P didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  He 
feels hes been treated  unfairly as payment durations were different with the previous card 
provider where his information  was shared to move him as a customer. He said the warning 
about paying three days before isnt shown when he makes  an online payment, so its not 
clearly visible. He was told if the payment had arrived  by 4pm on the day, it wouldve been 
acceptable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling  about what happened, particularly if he looks to pay 
off his balance  each month to avoid paying  any interest  and has made similar  payments like 
this before his credit  card was administered by Virgin Money.
And I can see that he paid the full balance on that particular  statement online using his debit 
card on the evening the payment was due. However, this meant the payment didnt show as 
a credit to the account until the following day, meaning it was overdue.  
Ref: DRN57606992Ive looked at Mr Ps credit card statements; the terms and conditions  of the account and the 
information thats given on Virgin Moneys  website about making payments. Ive also 
considered the screen shots Mr P has provided  about what  appears when he makes a 
payment online.
In relation to a payment  by a debit card both the monthly statements and the website do say 
that payments  should be made  at least three  business days before the payment  date.  This is 
shown amongst other acceptable payment methods, which  show  how long it may take for 
Virgin Money to receive it. The website  displays it under the frequently asked questions 
section.
The terms and conditions  of the account say: The minimum payment must reach your 
account after statement  date and by the payment  date on your statement. It can take up to 
seven business  days for the money  to reach  us, depending on the payment method you 
have chosen. 
Interest isnt charged on card purchases  if the full balance is paid by the payment date. If it 
isnt, then interest is charged each day from the date transactions are added to the account  
until they are fully paid off. 
So, although  I can understand Mr Ps upset to receive this interest charge, and that he may 
not have received it from the previous provider under similar  circumstances, I dont think  
Virgin Money has acted  wrongly  in applying it when it forms part of the terms of his credit  
card agreement with it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5760699