K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr M 
says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Egg at the time, mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr M says the PPI was just included as part of the application process and at no time was it 
made clear to him that the policy was optional. But based on the evidence  Ive seen I think 
Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this. 
I say this having seen evidence that Mr Ms credit card application was made online without 
any involvement from a Barclays sales person during completion  of the application.  And it 
has sent me some screen shots of the application process which  it says Mr M wouldve seen 
at the time  and Ive seen no reason to doubt that Mr M wouldve had to follow this process. 
These include equally prominent yes and no options for PPI. Barclays  has told us that 
Mr M wouldnt have been  able to continue onto the next screens  without making a decision 
on whether or not to take out the cover. Ive also seen a copy  of the applications report  
which recorded the answers  Mr M gave online and this shows a Y in the box for PPI  but 
its likely  this box wouldve had an N in it if Mr M had ticked no to the PPI - so I think  this 
reflected what he wanted at the time.
As this was an internet sale and theres  no evidence Mr M spoke to anyone  from Barclays  
while completing his application, I think this was a non-advised sale. This means Barclays  
didnt have to check if it was right for him but it did have to make  sure Mr M got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr M says he wasnt given any information  about the policy. And I agree, the information
Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose  to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  Based  on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover so I think it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr M says the PPI wasnt of any use for him as he was entitled  to six months of sick pay 
from his employer and had some savings at the time. The PPI policy,  however, wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event Mr M was unable to work  and on top of his savings  
and sick pay entitlement.  So these funds  couldve been used for other  expenses  - and I think  
Mr M wouldve found the PPI particularly useful if he was off work for longer than his sick pay 
wouldve lasted. Mr M also said his family couldve helped him out if needed, but help from 
others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change  over time. 
Ref: DRN54304672So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover 
and, overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.  This means Barclays  doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But Barclays has paid back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5430467