K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  provided him with incomplete  
and inconsistent information about his pension benefits and delayed the start of his annuity.
background
Mr N had a Section 32 plan with Aviva which contained a guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP). In August 2016 Aviva sent Mr N information  about his pension benefits.  He was told 
his GMP meant he would get an annuity of £1,828.84  per year from his 65th birthday  in 
January 2017.  
In November 2016, Mr N told Aviva he was intending to take the GMP but asked a few 
questions about  tax implications which Aviva didnt  respond to. Mr N chased them up and 
was promised call backs and that the information  would be provided by email, neither of 
which happened.
In February 2017  Mr N was told his pension would incur a lifetime  allowance charge of 25% 
as he had already  used  his lifetime allowance of £1.8 million. This would reduce his annuity 
to £1,371.63 per year.  However, he was mistakenly  told he would not have to pay any 
income tax on this amount. Based on this information Mr N told Aviva  he wanted to proceed 
and take his annuity. 
In March 2017 Aviva told him that the information about not having to pay income tax had 
been incorrect. However, later that same month they gave Mr N further incorrect information. 
Aviva mistakenly told him he could  take his benefits  as a lump  sum which  Mr N decided to 
go ahead  with instead.
In April 2017 Aviva told him that he couldnt  take a lump sum and that he would receive a 
separate letter setting out the details of his available annuity.  The letter explained that if Mr N 
continued with his annuity application  within 45 days of receiving  the new quotes, Aviva 
would complete a loss assessment which would  consider the delays caused by their errors 
and level of service. The assessment  would look into what  the annuity amount and start date 
would have been if the delays and errors  had not occurred.
Mr N didnt receive any more information  and called  Aviva  in May 2017 to chase this up. 
They said they would send him the details of his annuity and information  about why he 
couldnt have  a lump  sum.
In June 2017 Mr N wrote another letter to Aviva  explaining that he hadnt heard  anything 
since their phone call in May. He also asked whether he could transfer his pension  to his 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  instead.  He received a letter shortly afterwards 
explaining what annuity was available and that the GMP  couldnt be paid as a lifetime 
allowance excess lump  sum. Mr N was offered a total of £600 in compensation for the 
inconvenience he experienced by being  given wrong information about  his retirement 
benefits. Aviva also said that if they received Mr Ns go ahead  for the annuity within  the next 
28 days they would offer to complete a loss assessment  to ensure his annuity  and start date 
had not been adversely affected by the incorrect information they provided.
Mr N spoke again to Aviva and queried  whether he could transfer his pension  to his SIPP 
and asked for the legislation under which he couldnt  take a lump sum. It was agreed  to send 
this to him in writing.
Ref: DRN59493242In July 2017, Aviva sent Mr N a letter explaining that the current  transfer value of his plan 
didnt support the cost of providing  the GMP, so it couldnt be transferred elsewhere. They  
also provided more  information about  why a lump  sum couldnt be taken. Aviva said they 
were looking  forward to receiving Mr Ns response to whether he wanted to take his benefits 
and whether he accepted the compensation of £600.
Mr N says he went on an extended holiday in July-September and didnt  look into this further 
until the end of September 2017. He then instructed a financial adviser and asked  Aviva  to 
send him more information  about the policy  so his adviser could check  the options for him.
In December 2017, his advisers  confirmed to Mr N that he couldnt transfer his pension  to a 
SIPP or take a lump  sum.  Mr N then informed  Aviva he wanted to proceed with his GMP 
annuity. At this point  Aviva told Mr N that they wouldnt offer to backdate  his annuity to 
January 2017  anymore  as he had waited too long (from June  December 2017) to confirm 
that he wanted to take his benefits.
Mr N returned the necessary forms for taking his pension  at the end of January 2018. He 
started receiving his annuity from May 2018  with payments being backdated to February 
2018. 
Mr N doesnt think £600 is sufficient to compensate him for the inconvenience this matter  
has caused him. He also considers it unfair that Aviva has backtracked on their offer to 
backdate his annuity to his retirement  age of 65.
Our investigator thought the offer of £600 was fair for the trouble and upset caused  by 
Avivas mistake. However,  he also thought  Mr Ns annuity should be backdated to his 
retirement age of 65. 
Aviva didnt agree and have pointed out that Mr N now receives a higher annuity  than he 
would have done if the benefits had started  in January 2017 due to the deferment  rules on 
his GMP plan.
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Ns complaint  was passed to me for an ombudsmans  
decision.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ns complaint. I asked Aviva to pay Mr N the 
missing annuity payments  from his 65th birthday until 5 February 2018. I did agree that the 
£600 offered by Aviva for Mr Ns inconvenience in these circumstances was fair.
Both Aviva and Mr N provided their responses  to my provisional  decision which  I thank them 
for and which  Ill address  in this decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness Ill repeat the findings  of my provisional decision here:
I think everyone agrees  that Aviva has given Mr N incorrect information  on several occasions 
and have caused delays to him taking his benefits. I appreciate that Mr N would have spent 
Ref: DRN59493243considerable time chasing Aviva and I can understand that this would have been 
inconvenient and frustrating. However,  based on what Ive seen I agree with the investigator  
that the £600 offered  by Aviva for Mr Ns troubles seems fair in the circumstances.
I then considered whether Mr N has suffered  any financial loss by his pension  being delayed  
and whether Aviva should backdate his annuity payments.
This service aims to put customers-as far as possible-back into the position they would have 
been in if a business hadnt made a mistake. Im satisfied that if Mr N had been given the 
correct information  about his pension  in a reasonable  timeframe  in 2016/early 2017, he 
would have taken  his annuity  from his 65th birthday. And I think  Aviva originally offering to 
backdate his annuity to this date shows that they thought  the same.
Aviva retracted on their offer to backdate annuity payments as even after Mr N had all the 
information he needed in June 2017, he didnt ask to take his benefits  until December. So 
they say he delayed taking his benefits  even further and didnt mitigate his losses.
Mr N asked further questions in response  to Avivas letter in June 2017 which I think were 
reasonable given the fact he had been  incorrect information on several occasions by this 
point. However, I agree  that by July 2017  Mr N had all the information he needed  to proceed 
with his annuity if he wished to do so.
I do understand that Mr N was on an extended holiday until September 2017 and after that 
checked pension  options through a financial adviser.  So I can see why he didnt ask for his 
annuity earlier. However, I agree with Aviva that they are not responsible  for delaying his 
annuity payments  from July 2017.
Having said that, this doesnt take away from the fact that if Aviva had acted correctly from 
the start Mr Ns annuity would most  likely have been in place  from January  2017, and I dont 
think that any delays  from Mr Ns side after that change this. 
I have carefully considered that by deferring  his pension by about a year (even  if it wasnt 
intentional), Mr Ns annuity is now higher than it would have been if he had taken it in 
January 2017.  At age 65 it would have  been £1,371.63 per year and Mr N now receives 
£1,477.71 per year. So Ive thought about whether Mr N actually  suffered any financial loss 
by delaying his pension.
And this is where  it becomes problematic as we dont  know  whether this is the case  yet as 
this depends on how long Mr N will live and receive  his pension.
Every year that Mr N is alive he will receive  about £106 more than he would have done if his 
pension hadnt  been delayed. Mr Ns annuity  was delayed by about  a year. In order  to 
compensate for the years  worth  of missing annuity Mr N needs to live for around another  11 
years from now (so until hes around  78). From  that point on Mr N will have essentially 
benefitted from his original delay in annuity  payments. However,  if Mr N dies before  this 
point, he would have  been better off taking his (lower) annuity without delay.
It could be argued that 78 is below the average  life expectancy for a male  of Mr Ns age and 
so on balance he might  not suffer any financial loss from the delay. However, I dont think  its 
fair to leave open the possibility that he might lose out when it was Aviva  who caused  the 
delay in the first place.
Ref: DRN59493244The most accurate  solution would be to cancel Mr Ns current  annuity and pay an annuity of 
£1,371.63 per year from his 65th birthday until he dies. However,  in practice this is likely to 
be difficult for Aviva to realise.
So in the circumstances I think Aviva should  pay Mr N the annuity payments he missed  
since his 65th birthday and bear the risk that he might be better off if he lives past the age of 
78.
Usually I would ask Aviva  to pay interest  on the payments Mr N missed as he these funds 
werent available for him to use. However,  Mr Ns annuity was very small and based on the 
information I have  I think its unlikely the delay  caused Mr N to borrow money or that he lost 
considerable opportunities to save or invest his annuity. Whilst Mr N obviously wanted to 
draw his pension,  I dont get the impression he was heavily relying on the funds. Together 
with the fact that there is still the possibility that he could gain from the delay, I think its fair 
to not ask Aviva to pay any interest on the missed payments in this particular case.
Aviva disagreed with my decision.  In summary they said:
They are happy I agree  not all delays were down  to Aviva
Loss assessments were offered to Mr N, however he didnt  reply  in a timely manner 
even when he had all the correct information  
Backdating the annuity to Mr Ns 65th birthday is penalising Aviva  for the delays on 
Mr Ns side
When Mr N received  the correct information  he asked further questions and involved 
a financial adviser. Its likely  that Mr N would have done the same  prior to his 65th 
birthday if Aviva  had given him correct information straight away.  So the annuity 
couldnt have  been set up from his 65th birthday.
If Aviva had conducted a loss assessment  they would have allowed for the correct  
start date, taking out Avivas errors and delays, but keeping  in the actual time Mr N 
took to reply. 
The decision is unfair as not taking into account Mr Ns delays doesnt provide a true 
picture of what would have happened  
I carefully considered  Avivas comments,  but I still think  my decision is fair. Its true that Mr N 
asked for further  information and instructed a financial  adviser. However, I think this is 
understandable having  been given conflicting  and incorrect information by Aviva on several 
occasions. I think he wanted to make  sure that the options given to him were in fact correct 
and therefore  asked for a second opinion.
I dont think Mr N would have felt this uncertainty and lack of trust if he had been given clear  
and correct information from the start. So I think it doesnt follow  that without Avivas errors 
and delays Mr N would  have still delayed his annuity  payment.  I remain of the opinion that 
without Avivas errors and delays  early on Mr N wouldve been in receipt of his annuity from 
his 65th birthday. The fact that Mr N has actually delayed the annuity payment  since  July 
2017 doesnt affect this. 
Mr N also responded  to my decision.  In summary he said:
He appreciated  that I had decided in his favour  and for the time spent on this matter. 
However, he asked me to reconsider  the compensation  amount of £600. 
£600 is a small  amount to Aviva and does not act as a penalty for their incorrect  and 
inappropriate advice.  To penalise them Aviva should  pay the value of two years  
Ref: DRN59493245annuity, particularly  as he has to live to age 78 just to receive  the pension hes 
entitled to.
This would put down a marker for Aviva to show them compensation amounts would 
be more significant  in other cases  too (relative to the annuity amounts concerned)
Higher compensation would also reflect that his 65th birthday is now over two and a 
half years  ago.
Ive considered Mr Ns comments,  however Im satisfied the compensation amount is fair. I 
would like to explain that our service doesnt punish  businesses for their mistakes. We put 
customers-as far as possible- into the position  they would have been in if no errors  had 
occurred. Its incorrect  that Mr N has to live until 78 in order  to receive what hes entitled to.  
Once he has received  this lump sum from Aviva he hasnt been  financially disadvantaged.  In 
fact he is slightly better  off than he would  have been as hes receiving a slightly higher 
annuity now than he wouldve  done.
The compensation of £600 relates to the inconvenience and trouble this matter has caused  
Mr N. And for the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision I think  this amount  is fair.
In summary,  after having considered the comments from both sides,  Im still satisfied that the 
outcome of my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
putting things right
Aviva should  pay Mr N the missing annuity payments (based on an annuity  of £1,371.63 per 
year) from his 65th birthday until 5 February  2018.  Payments should  be adjusted  to allow for 
the income tax the consumer would have  paid when taking benefits. Based on the 
information Ive seen Mr N would have paid income  tax at 40%. If not paid already they 
should also pay Mr N £600 in compensation for the inconvenience their errors caused  him.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ns complaint and ask Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above.  Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 23 November 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5949324