K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the way The Co-operative  Bank Plc responded after she fell victim to 
a scam.  
The Co-operative says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs M authorised the payment   
and it couldnt  reasonably  have been expected to question the transaction and intervene  as 
it wasnt unusual or out of character for Mrs M. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for the following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mrs M authorised the scam payment of £4,290.  She was duped 
by the scammers  into instructing her branch  to transfer that sum, for the purchase of a 
car that was advertised on a well-known buying  and selling website. They deceived her 
and her partner over the phone,  by email and live chat into believing the car existed. The 
car was never delivered. 
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs M was the victim  of a 
scam. She used  her security credentials  to request the payment. So, although she was 
deceived, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions  
of her account, Mrs M is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance. 
3.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
The Co-operative should fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether,  to help protect  customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  For branch transactions like this, those steps 
may include following  the Banking  Protocol where appropriate.
4.The payment  wasnt  necessarily an unusually large amount for Mrs Ms account.  In the 
six months prior to the payment, I can see she had a few withdrawals and payments that 
were higher in value.  However, its still important to note that the payment was a large 
amount. More importantly,  the payment itself failed  numerous  times before being 
processed successfully  and eventually it only went through after Mrs M had been given 
different account  details by the scammer  and a reference was entered. Whilst I dont 
think the change  to a bill payment made  a difference, I do think the fact the payment 
couldnt be processed on three occasions   and ultimately needed a completely new set 
Ref: DRN59696792of details to go through   shouldve appeared unusual to branch staff.  Even  more  so, 
when coupled with the fact Mrs M told them  the payment was for a car. The scam Mrs M 
fell victim to is very common  and something  I think, its fair to say, banks should 
generally be more  familiar  with than the average  customer. So here we had a large 
transaction, using  payee details that kept failing and for a purpose  widely  known to have 
links to common scams.  Whilst each of these things  on their own may not be unusual, 
when they are all taken into account together,  I think the transaction  shouldve flagged  
with The Co-operative.  
5.The Co-operative didnt believe the transaction was unusual  or out of character for Mrs 
M and therefore say the provisions in the Banking  Protocol dont apply. However, Ive 
explained why I think the payment was unusual. It therefore  follows that I think 
The Co-operative shouldve taken steps to question Mrs M about the payment. The 
branch staff already knew it was for a car  and given this type of scam is common   it 
couldve asked questions, such as; where were Mrs M and her partner buying the car 
from? Had Mrs M or her partner seen the car? Had they met the seller in person or done 
any checks on the seller? If the branch  staff asked these questions, I think it wouldve 
become apparent that Mrs M may have been in the process of being  scammed and The 
Co-operative couldve then warned her. 
6.The Co-operative has said that even if it had asked further questions  and spoken  to Mrs 
M in more detail about the payment, it wouldnt have made a difference.  Its said this 
because Mrs M was making the payment on behalf  of her partner. However, Im not 
persuaded by this argument. I think its far more likely, especially as she was making the 
payment on behalf of someone else, that Mrs M wouldve wanted to relay the banks 
concerns to her partner  and ensure they carried out some  checks  before  making  the 
payment. Mrs M has confirmed as much, and Ive seen nothing that makes me doubt 
this. 
7.In light of my conclusions above,  its not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from 
the payee bank, before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. 
8.I have also considered whether Mrs M should bear some  responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. Ive thought carefully about The Co-operatives comments  that 
Mrs Ms loss ultimately occurred because her partner failed to do due diligence or check 
the authenticity of the car before  making  the transfer. But I dont think  there was anything 
obvious that wouldve suggested to Mrs M, or her partner, that they were  being 
scammed. Mrs M and her partner had not only had email communication with the seller 
but had spoken to him on the phone  he gave them a legitimate back  story  for the sale,  
telling them he no longer needed  his car as he was due to go away  for work. This 
communication, and the fact the car was being advertised on a legitimate website, 
convinced them the sale was genuine.  I'm therefore satisfied  there  was no contributory 
negligence on this occasion, Mrs M was simply the unwitting and blameless victim  of a 
persuasive fraudster. 
9.In the circumstances, Im satisfied  The Co-operative  should fairly and reasonably 
reimburse Mrs M for the loss she suffered (minus the £2.88 that was recovered). I dont 
believe interest is payable as Mrs M has told us, had she not gone  ahead with the 
payment, she wouldve  withdrawn  the money from the account and given this back  to her 
partner. 
10.The Co-operative  has already awarded £50 for a short delay in issuing a final response,  
but Mrs M has also understandably  been left worried and concerned  that the money she 
sent to the scammer  would never be returned.  For this reason, I think an additional £250 
is warranted and therefore, a total of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In 
reaching that conclusion Im mindful that her loss was ultimately  caused  by the callous 
Ref: DRN59696793act of a fraudster and it was an authorised  transaction, but The Co-operative could 
ultimately have prevented  the payments and the trouble and upset  Mrs M has faced. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about The Co-operative  Bank  and I therefore require the bank to:
Refund Mrs M £4,287.12 (this takes into account  the amount The Co-operative
recovered)
Pay Mrs M £250 for the material trouble  and upset  she experienced, bringing the 
total to £300 when  taking into account the £50 already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5969679