K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that TSB Bank plc wouldnt process a chargeback claim for their 
holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs C booked a cruise.  They  paid for upgraded flights  and cabin. But they said that 
they discovered the cabin had an insect infestation. They reported this to the staff,  and the 
cabin was fumigated a number of times. But Mr and Mrs C said that it didnt solve  the 
problem. The cruise  company had offered them a different cabin, but they said that was very 
small and had no windows, so it wouldnt be suitable  for them  as one of them  suffers  with 
claustrophobia. They  said that they had to try to catch up with sleep in lounges during the 
day. Mr and Mrs C said that their trip was ruined.
When they returned, they asked TSB to make a chargeback request for their trip. But TSB 
wouldnt do that. It said that they had received the service that they requested.  And it said 
that they hadnt complained at the time. Then  when  they showed TSB that they had 
complained at the time, TSB said that it still couldnt  do anything  about  this. It said that the 
chargeback rules limited  claims  like to this to the unused portion  of the service. So that 
meant that the rules didnt allow it to process a chargeback claim where there  was no portion 
of the service that hadnt been  used.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he didnt think that TSB had done  
anything wrong  by not making this chargeback claim. He said TSB was right that the 
relevant rules restricted the claims that can be made, and he didnt think  that TSB had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Our investigator  suggested other ways in which  Mr and Mrs C 
might pursue  their complaint.
Mr C replied to say that he found  our investigators  view contradictory  and confusing.  He 
said that he paid for a relaxing holiday and he didnt get one, and its as simple  as that. He 
says that this was a breach of contract  and he didnt understand why the chargeback  was 
limited to the unused  portion of the service. 
Mr C said that when  he took out his debit card, he was told he was covered the same as a 
credit card. Our investigator  said that he wasnt looking at the mis-sale of this current 
account, just at the chargeback claim. Mr C said that he still felt this should be covered. 
Because our investigator and Mr C didnt agree, the case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs C have told us that they have had a deeply disappointing trip, which they found 
quite distressing at some  points. But even if I agree with them that the service  theyve been 
provided with falls well below the standard  they could reasonably  expect, that doesnt mean 
that TSB has to put things right. 
Ref: DRN58900582This complaint isnt about what Mr and Mrs Cs cruise company did. Its about  what  TSB did 
when they asked TSB to help them to put this problem right.  So what  I have to focus  on is 
just what TSB did.
There are some things that TSB can do if someones received a poor service,  and paid for 
that with a card from TSB. It might, if the payment  was on a credit card,  be able to make  a 
s.75 claim.  I wont set out in detail how those  work,  because they only apply to credit  card 
payments. And, as our investigator  said, this wasnt a credit  card payment.
Mr C said that he was told he got the same  protections with this debit card as he would with 
a credit card. If he wants to complain about  what he was told when he got this card, then he 
can do that. But thats not part of this case. 
This is a debit card payment. So TSB can sometimes  make a chargeback request. 
Chargeback is a scheme which  is run by the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on 
Mr Cs and Mrs Cs cards. Its not run by TSB.  TSB doesnt make the scheme  rules.  It has to 
follow them,  and it cant change them. 
Those scheme rules  set out that when someones  not happy  with the service theyve been 
provided with, their claim is limited  to the unused portion of the service. As Ive explained, 
TSB didnt  set that rule, it cant change it, and it has to follow it.
So TSB thought  about this, and it said that it didnt think that there was an unused portion of 
the service  in this case. Mr and Mrs C went on their cruise, and they had a cabin, which  
they used to some extent.  The rules say that there  isnt any part of the money theyve paid 
which can be recovered through  a chargeback request.
Like our investigator,  I think that this was a reasonable  conclusion for TSB to draw. So I 
dont think that TSB had to make a chargeback  request for Mr and Mrs C. 
That doesnt  mean that Mr and Mrs C definitely  wont be able to get their money back.  There  
are other avenues that they can pursue. I know that our investigator has discussed some of 
those with them. 
But it does  mean  that the limited scope that TSB has to help its customers when something 
goes wrong, wont allow  it to help Mr and Mrs C. 
Because I dont think that TSB did anything wrong,  I dont think  it has to do anything  to make 
up for that now. 
I know that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, but I dont  think  this complaint  should be 
upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2019.
Ref: DRN58900583Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5890058