K820x#14complaint
Mr Y has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) sold to him with a credit  card in 1997. 
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and took the view it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr Y disagreed and so its been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover. Looking at his 
circumstances at the time, Mr Y met these rules. So I think  hed have been able to claim on 
the PPI if hed needed to. 
Next, Ive considered  whether Lloyds made it sufficiently clear to Mr Y that the policy  was 
optional. Mr Y informed us that Lloyds didnt explain this to him. 
I can see that on the copy of the card application  form there  was a section about the PPI. 
It was headed;
OPTIONAL FEATURES and underneath this there  were a range of options to choose from. 
Mr Y marked  two of these boxes. One of these options was the PPI. He also signed  the form. 
Having considered this, I think  having  read the form its most likely Mr Y would have 
understood that the policy was an optional feature that he could  decline  by not filling  in the 
box. In addition, this suggests Mr Y asked for the PPI when he applied  for his card. So Im 
not upholding his complaint on this basis.
Next, Lloyds says it would have probably  recommended the PPI cover  with the credit card so 
this means it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Y. 
Given the information we have about his circumstances,  I dont think Mr Y would have been  
caught by any of the exclusions  or restrictions in the policy.  In addition, from the information 
Mr Y gave us I think any protection from sickness or unemployment he had with his job 
would have been quite moderate. This suggests  that the PPI policy would have been of use 
to him. In the event of a successful claim Mr Y would have been able to have his outstanding  
balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were  accessible in 
addition to any other means  he already  had in place at the time. So taking all these things 
into account, I think the recommendation was suitable for him.
Ref: DRN58693712Finally, Lloyds also had to give Mr Y information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
that he could decide for himself whether or not to take out the policy. Ive considered the 
possibility that Lloyds didnt provide this to Mr Y.
However the cost of the PPI was comparable to the cost of other, similar  policies available at 
the time.  And in light of his circumstances I dont think  Mr Y would have been affected  by 
any of the main exclusions or restrictions. So on balance, I dont think having better 
information would have put him off taking  out the policy. Having considered all the available 
information in this complaint, I dont think it should be upheld  and I dont  require Lloyds to put 
anything right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.  
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5869371