K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained about short-term  loans granted  to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mrs T says she couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt  
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out.
background
QuickQuid agreed seven loans for Mrs T. Loan 1, and loans 3  7 were repayable over 
between one and three months.  Loan 2 was a flexible credit agreement  (flex credit).This was 
a facility that allowed Mrs T to draw  down money  up to a pre-agreed credit limit, with a view 
to repaying it  potentially over a period of up to 10 months. Mrs T re-financed loan 6, this is 
where she borrowed further funds, extending  the term of the original agreement  and agreed 
a new repayment  schedule. She also took out two top-ups on loan 7, this is where she took 
out further borrowing under the same  agreement,  before  paying  back  the initial  amount  
borrowed. Ive set out a summary  of the lending below. 
payday loan
loan no. applicationprincipal  
amount (£)no. of 
instalments 
duehighest  monthly 
repayment due (£)
1 16/03/2014 150 1 165
flex credit
loan no. application credit  limitno. of 
instalments 
duehighest  monthly 
repayment  due (£)*
2 05/04/2014 550 up to 10 197
*Based on Mrs T drawing down the full credit limit at the outset and repaying the balance over 10 months
payday loans
loan no. applicationprincipal  
amount (£)no. of 
instalments 
duehighest  monthly 
repayment due (£)
3 07/12/2015 150 2 194
4 13/05/2016 100 3 122
5 02/02/2017 300 3 367
6 23/06/2017 250 3 306
6a (top-up) 11/09/2017      200  (450) 3 496
7 30/11/2017 250 3 306
7a (refinance) 06/12/2017 200 (450) 3 551
7b (refinance) 13/12/2017     200  (650) 3 796
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Ts complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She felt the checks QuickQuid carried out on loans 1  4 were 
proportionate. But thought  the checks carried out from loans 5  7 werent. And she thought  
that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that these loans 
wouldve been unaffordable for Mrs T, and wouldnt have agreed to them.
She also thought  QuickQuid shouldve done  more to monitor Mrs Ts account during the 
course of her flex credit agreement, and that had it done so, it wouldve seen that by 
29 September 2014, she was no longer using the account as intended. So she 
recommended QuickQuid refund any interest and charges applied as a result of any 
drawdowns after this date.
Ref: DRN52860312QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators findings regarding loans 5 - 7, so it didnt agree 
to uphold these  loans. But it did accept the findings  regarding the flex credit agreement, and 
offered to refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of any drawdowns  from 
29 September 2014 onwards in line with our approach, in settlement of Mrs Ts complaint. 
Mrs T was unhappy with this offer. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the 
case has come to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision.  As QuickQuid has accepted 
the adjudicators  findings  regarding the way in which the flex credit  account  was managed; 
and the fact that the sale of loans  1  4 (including  loan 2 the flex credit agreement) no 
longer appear  in dispute; my decision will focus  on QuickQuids decision to agree to the 
remaining loans, loans  5  7. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mrs Ts income  and expenses before funding the above loans. Its 
said it started implementing  changes to affordability  assessments  in June 2014 and all the 
changes were completed by 28 February  2015.
It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Mrs T borrowed  the loans in question, it had 
implemented an affordability review that was consistent with the FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) Handbook and was in place at the time it received  authorisation by the FCA. And 
that its assessment  was conducted properly and individually for each of these  applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument, in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  However  our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations  
set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice  and all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to help us decide whether we think  what  the business 
has done is right or not. And in this case I don't think QuickQuid  was right to provide  Mrs T 
with some of the loans  she borrowed  from 2015  onwards.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument directly  and through  
earlier final decisions. So Im not going  to expand on this point any further  here, though I 
have considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
Ref: DRN52860313(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mrs Ts complaint and what  both parties have  
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mrs T borrowed  the loans in question.  Bearing  in 
mind the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN) and its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship
At the time Mrs T took out loan 5, shed been  borrowing  from QuickQuid for almost three 
years. So by this point,  QuickQuid shouldve already have been building a full picture of 
Mrs Ts financial circumstances before agreeing to lend any further to ensure she could  
maintain her repayment  sustainably. 
It shouldve also considered whether given the nature of short-term credit it was offering, 
whether it was right to continue to lend to her for this extended period of time. But as 
minimum, at this stage, I think proportionate checks wouldve seen  QuickQuid building  a full 
picture of Mrs Ts financial position,  and verifying the information it was given  before  
agreeing to lend any further. 
Mrs Ts provided  bank statements from around the time of the above applications. So Ive 
used these, and all the other evidence provided by both parties, to work out what I think 
QuickQuid wouldve found out, had it carried out proportionate checks  at the time Mrs T 
applied for loans 5  7. 
Having done so, I can see that when  Mrs T applied for loan 5, her monthly  income was 
around £2,150.  And her regular  monthly  expenditure,  which included her general living costs  
and regular credit  commitments, was around  £1,690. I can also see she owed around £580 
to other  short-term lenders at this point. So if QuickQuid  had carried  out proportionate 
checks, I think it wouldve  seen that her monthly outgoings already exceeded her income, 
and that she was not in a position  to commit to any further credit  repayments at this time. 
And as a responsible lender, I dont think QuickQuid wouldve agreed  to loan 5 or the top-up 
on this loan.
Mrs Ts financial position changed very little in terms of her income and outgoings at the time 
she applied  for loans 6 and 7. She was still earning around the same amount monthly, and 
her outgoings had remained relatively unchanged, which meant her regular and short  term 
monthly commitments were still exceeding her income.
Ref: DRN52860314But in addition to this, I can see that in the months  prior to taking out loans 6 and 7, Mrs T 
was spending  around £1,900 and £3,400 a month respectively on online gambling  and 
gaming sites. So proportionate checks wouldve shown  QuickQuid, that Mrs T was in no 
position to take out any further  credit  repayments at this time, and I think that as a 
responsible lender, it would not have  agreed  to loans 6 or 7, or any of the top-ups or 
refinances of these loans  either. 
In summary,  I dont the checks  QuickQuid carried out on loans 5  7, or any of the 
subsequent top-ups or re-finances  were proportionate. And I think had it carried out 
proportionate checks, it wouldve realised that these loans were  not sustainably  affordable  
for Mrs T, and as a result would not have agreed  to them. 
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
QuickQuid has already agreed  to refund the interest  and charges  Mrs T paid as a result of 
any draw downs on her flex credit account  from 29 September 2014  onwards, so it should 
still do this. 
In addition to this I think QuickQuid was wrong to have approved loans 5  7 and the re-
finances and top-ups  on these loans. So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges 
Mrs T paid towards these loans .
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  in February 2017 and 
June 2017 including any top-ups or re-finances  of these loans
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mrs Ts credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
QuickQuid should  also:
remove all interest and charges added to loan 7 agreed in November 2017, as well as 
the interest and charges added to the two top-ups on this loan
treat any repayments made, as payments towards the capital balance
I understand this will leave an outstanding  balance, so QuickQuid can deduct this 
balance from what it now  needs  to pay Mrs T above,  if it still owns  the debt.
If, after all of the above has been actioned, anything remains  outstanding,  a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan should  be arranged. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN52860315For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Ts complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5286031