K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains about the amount of compensation Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) paid 
to her in relation to a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background 
Mrs A took out a credit card in November 1989. At the same time she took out PPI. The PPI 
was subsequently cancelled in December  2008.  Mrs A complained to Barclays  about the 
mis-sale of the insurance. Barclays wrote to Mrs A in response and said it was upholding her 
complaint. It offered  to put her back in the position  she would have been in had the PPI not 
been added  and said it would refund her the amount of the PPI together with interest and 
calculated a refund due to her of £36,474.61. In its letter it detailed  how it arrived at this sum.
Barclays issued a cheque  to Mrs A in August  2015 for £36,474.61.  Mrs A returned the 
cheque telling Barclays that her name had changed.  She also asked for the money to be 
paid in part towards her outstanding credit card account and the remaining amount to be 
paid to her via a BACS  payment. Barclays destroyed this cheque  and told Mrs A that it 
couldnt make a payment to the outstanding  sums owed on her credit  card but that the full 
amount would be paid via BACS to an account  in her correct  name.
A payment confirmation letter was sent in September 2015 and Barclays  confirmed it had 
carried out a new calculation. It resent Mrs A (by BACS payment) the revised sum of 
£36,904.90. This included  an update  to the 8% simple interest as Mrs A had been out of 
pocket for slightly longer  by this time.
Barclays calculations incorporated full statement data from May 2001. For the period when 
Barclays had no information (prior to May 2001)  it made  certain assumptions and calculated  
the sums  owing by taking the average of the premiums paid during the first 12 months  of 
statements it did have and working backwards, reducing the average payment to the start 
date of the policy. 
Mrs A referred her matter  to this service and said she thought she was entitled to more  than 
Barclays had paid because the amount was based on assumptions made; not from the start 
date of her credit card. 
Since its final response in 2015 Barclays has updated its calculation process. So after the 
matter was brought to this service it also carried out further calculations. These incorporated 
the same  statement data from May 2001  and assumptions but it now works out the card rate 
interest slightly differently  for the period  when  it has the data. This resulted  in an additional 
amount of £2,580.96 being due to Mrs A, including some additional  compensatory  interest.
Barclays said it would arrange for payment of this amount to be made upon confirmation of 
acceptance of its offer.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she thought  that the amount of 
compensation was fair. Mrs A disagreed with this view and asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51014512In this complaint  Im not looking  at whether the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs A. This is not 
Mrs As complaint. Im looking at whether the amount Barclays paid to Mrs A was fair. Ive 
decided it was. I will explain why.
The purpose of compensation is to put Mrs A as far as possible into the position she 
wouldve been in had the PPI not been  sold to her at all. That means she wouldnt have had 
the PPI at all and she should  get back all her money  that she paid for it. 
So that would include all the premiums and all the interest charged on those premiums 
because they were added to her credit card balance.  And as Mrs A didnt  have the use of the 
money shed paid out for the PPI, Mrs A should  also get back some  interest  for the periods 
she was paying  for the PPI costs. The rate for the interest  is set at 8% simple interest per 
year.
Mrs A has expressed some concern that Barclays didnt use the correct  start date for the 
credit card and PPI. The records provided do show that she took out her credit  card (ending 
4005) in November  1989. The policy was cancelled in December 2008. Barclays  doesnt 
hold all the statement  records  from 1989.  This is understandable and unsurprising  given the 
amount of time that has gone by and businesses arent required  to keep records indefinitely.
Barclays does have  available  statements  from May 2001. So although Barclays can say that 
Mrs A took out her credit  card in November 1989, it cant say exactly  how much the PPI 
would have been for this period until May 2001  when  the statements are available. 
In cases like this where  there  is no information  for a period, wed expect Barclays to take the 
information it had, and use this to fill in the gaps when the information wasnt available. This 
would mean  making  reasonable  assumptions  to work out how much  PPI may have been 
paid on those balances  from November 1989 until May 2001 (when it has the records  so it 
can say what was paid exactly).
Barclays has provided a breakdown  of its calculation. From this I can see in May 2001 Mrs A 
had a balance  on her card of £5,860.81  and the balance grew  steadily. So for the period 
when it has no data it has taken the average of the premiums  charged on the first 12 
months worth of statements. The average value was then decreased until the start date of 
the policy, assuming  that the balance  would have been decreasing back  to when the card 
opened.
In the absence of any other evidence about how Mrs A used her card and how much she 
was charged for PPI before  May 2001,  there  is no reason for me to think  that Mrs A wouldnt 
have most  likely used the same pattern of spending  as she did when the statements are 
available. 
So I think Barclays has now worked  out the offer in a fair way. It has used its most recent 
calculation process  and still owes Mrs A a further  amount which  I understand has not been  
paid. When this is paid Barclays will need to ensure it updates  any 8% simple interest due to 
the date of final settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Barclays Bank  UK PLC has offered Mrs A fair 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN51014513Barclays Bank UK PLC should update its calculation taking into account  any further 
compensatory interest  due from the date it made  the offer to Mrs A up until it makes the 
payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5101451