K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Howard Taylor Associates (HTA) advised him to transfer his 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  to a Self-Invested Personal pension  Scheme  
(SIPP) so that he could  invest in an unregulated investment. His representative says that 
transferring his pension was unsuitable for Mr G and so was the investment.    
background
I issued a provisional decision on 13 February  2019.  A copy of that decision is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In the provisional  decision I set out why was intending to 
uphold the complaint. 
I have not received any further submissions from HTA.
Mr Gs representative confirmed that Mr G will unlikely to be able to close  the SIPP  because  
of the investment it holds. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions  that would change  my view 
of the complaint, I would  confirm that my decision remains  as set out in the provisional 
decision.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint.
I set out the redress  calculation  that Howard Taylor Associates should undertake in the 
provisional decision. I also confirmed that I would make an allowance  if the SIPP  could not 
be closed. It seems it cannot currently be closed. I therefore make the following award:
HTA must  undertake a redress  calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
Ref: DRN55609952to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
Had HTA given suitable advice I dont think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr G 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
If the SIPP cannot be closed because it holds  the investment then, ideally, HTA should take 
over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest way of putting  Mr G 
back in the position he would have  been  in. But its unlikely ownership  of the investment can 
currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at some point, but I dont know when that 
will be  there  are a number of uncertainties. 
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that HTA pays  Mr G an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees), or 
undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, HTA may ask Mr G to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment  in that five year 
period, as well as any other payment  he may receive from any party as a result  of the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive. HTA will need  to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it 
asks Mr G to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded by this decision 
may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, HTA wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any 
future payments under the investment, it must  agree to pay any further future SIPP  fees. If 
HTA fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr G should then have the option of trying  to cancel the 
investment to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, HTA is entitled to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr G of any claim Mr G 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and investment. If HTA 
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of 
compensation is made. HTA must  first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr G for his 
consideration and agreement. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award : I order HTA to pay Mr G compensation as set out above, 
up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr G 
within 90 days of the date HTA receives notification of his acceptance of this decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes HTA to pay Mr G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Ref: DRN55609953recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I will also recommend that HTA pays  Mr G the balance.  I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes HTA to pay Mr G from the date it receives notification of his 
acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr G accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on HTA. My recommendation 
is not binding  on HTA. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept  my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr G may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55609954copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Howard Taylor Associates (HTA) advised Mr G to transfer his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a Self-Invested Personal pension  Scheme (SIPP) so that he could 
invest in an unregulated investment. His representative says that transferring his pension  was 
unsuitable for Mr G and so was the investment.    
background
In 2012 Mr G says he was cold called by a business offering a review of his pension. He was 
subsequently introduced  to HTA who carried out a transfer of his OPS to a SIPP so that he could  
invest in a property investment. The investment was an unregulated landbanking scheme, which 
involved Mr G buying part of a plot of land,  in the hope that permission would later be given to 
develop it, allowing him to sell it for a profit. This scheme was an unregulated collective investment  
scheme (UCIS).
The transfer  was of defined  pension benefits from Mr Gs OPS. The transfer value was about  £58,000 
and represented 17 years  service  in his OPS. Mr G was 54 at time the transfer took place. It is my 
understanding investments  were made from the transferred  pension benefits into three land plots  of 
£15,000 each. The total investment was £45,000.  
On the Fact Find that HTA have retained for Mr G his income was recorded  as £26,000.  He was 
noted as having £12,000 in shares,  a £7,000 ISA and a Buy-To-Let (BTL) property valued  at 
£120,000. It was also noted that Mr G was an experienced investor with a High risk grading (this 
was the second highest  risk grading).
Mr Gs representative complained to HTA on his behalf. HTA did not agree  the complaint should  be 
upheld. 
HTA said that it had not given advice to Mr G but assisted on an execution only basis and Mr G was 
aware of this. HTA did not meet with Mr G and didnt complete a fact find for him. It said it was 
supplied with a Fact Find and could  rely on the information contained within  it. It confirmed to Mr G 
that he could not advise on the transfer or investment. Mr G never mentioned any medical  issues. 
The complaint was referred to this service and considered by an adjudicator. He was of the view that 
the complaint should be upheld.  He thought the transfer was too risky for Mr G given the defined 
benefit pension  entitlement he was giving up. He said that whilst HKA said that the transaction  had 
been carried out on an execution only basis it had also commented to Mr G that the transaction was 
appropriate to his experience and knowledge of the risks involved. So the adjudicator  thought that 
HKA had endorsed the transfer. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I would note firstly that HTA has not explained exactly how Mr G was referred  to it or why. It has said 
that it didnt administer the completion of the Fact Find (although it is a HTA document) but not said 
who did. So I have based  my decision on what the evidence would suggest most  likely occurred. If 
HTA would like to further explain the process as to how Mr G became its customer  and make the 
investment then it can do so in response to this decision.  
This is my understanding as to what occurred:
Ref: DRN55609955Mr G was approached by a business promoting the unregulated landbanking scheme. He was then 
referred to HTA with a view to using his pension  to invest in that scheme. A HTA Fact Find was then 
completed for use by HTA, which Mr G apparently signed on 22 March  2012.  HTA then completed a 
form called Assessment or Expertise, Experience and Knowledge  that was used to assess if the 
individual could be reasonably classified as an elective professional client so that this transfer and 
investment could go ahead. HTA assessed that Mr G was such  an individual and went  on to arrange 
the pension transfer so the investment could be made.
I dont believe, give the information HTA held about Mr G and the information recorded on the 
Assessment document, that it was reasonable  for it to treat Mr G as an elective professional client.
Even assuming the detail  on the Fact Find was correct and it was reasonable for HTA to rely on it, I 
do not believe  that Mr G holding a modest amount of shares, having purchased  a main residence 
several times and owning a BTL determines  he is a professional client capable of understanding all 
the risks of investing in a UCIS. It is recorded  that he held AIM shares but there is no confirmation of 
that on the Fact Find and Mr Gs representative says that is not correct. Mr G had, according to the 
Fact Find, a modest income and very modest investment portfolio. The Fact Find, even as in stands, 
does not indicate Mr G was an experienced  investor or professional client.     
On 2 April 2012 HTA wrote to Mr Gs pension scheme asking  for information  about the nature of the 
scheme, including values,  exit charges and whether it was a final salary  (defined benefit) scheme. It 
was seemingly after this point that HTA discovered  that the pension  was a defined benefit  scheme  
and declined  to provide  advice on the transfer. 
HTA has said that once it found out that it was defined benefit scheme it only agreed to administer  the 
transfer on an execution only basis. Mr G then apparently  signed various forms saying that he had not 
received advice from HTA and was proceeding  on an execution only basis.  For example, on 24 April 
2012 he signed a form which contained the following content:
I confirm that the transfer of my occupational  pension scheme(s) is to be conducted on an execution  
only basis. I have not sought or received independent financial  advice. I understand that I will have 
limited regulatory protection.
 
However HTA had also issued a letter to Mr G dated 18 April 2012 which said:
From what  we know about  the product, and from the amount that we know about your personal 
circumstances, there is nothing that would  make us attempt to dissuade you from proceeding  with this 
transaction as it appears to be appropriate to your experience and knowledge  of the risks involved.
So HTA was vouching for the appropriateness of the transaction and communicated this to Mr G. 
Given this and that HTA had competed an Fact Finding exercise and assessment of his suitability as 
a professional client able to transfer  his pension and invest in a UCIS, I do not believe  this can be 
determined to be an execution only transaction. Mr G did not approach HTA and simply instruct it to 
carry out a transaction of his choosing, the evidence suggests he was promoted a UCIS and referred 
to HTA so it could carry out an assessment of his suitability to invest. It was only when HTA 
discovered that Mr G had a defined benefit scheme that it determined  to treat the transaction as 
execution only, it wasnt Mr G who did that. 
In my view it should therefore  have taken into account Mr Gs circumstances and, as I will discuss,  
advised him against  the transfer and investment.  For completeness, HTA was clearly aware of the 
UCIS investment that the transfer to the SIPP  was to facilitate.  It should  therefore  have taken  that into 
account, the SIPP and the investment were  part of the same  transaction.
 
Even if I am wrong  in that finding, HTA knew that Mr G was transferring  his accumulated defined  
benefit (final  salary) pension to a SIPP  so that he could invest the majority of the value in a high risk 
UCIS. Bearing in mind  the information on the Fact Find, HTA had no reason to believe he had any 
other pension provision  (none is listed). 
Ref: DRN55609956Even without  taking into account the investment to be made, HTA would have known that transferring 
benefits from a defined benefit scheme providing guaranteed benefits  and income to a SIPP  where 
there were no such guarantees, was unlikely to be suitable. And furthermore it was then aware that 
most of the money  was to be invested in a high risk UCIS where  there was the potential for Mr G to 
lose his entire  investment. 
UCIS promotions are restricted by S238 of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000. They should 
not be marketed to the general public  and are generally  only suitable  for sophisticated  or professional 
investors who can appreciate and understand the risks they present. They are not regulated  and do 
not benefit  from the protection afforded by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
 
Mr G was advised  to invest the majority of his pension  funds  in a UCIS.  The regulator has
commented on the proportion of a portfolio that should be invested in this type of fund. In its
statement from December 2010 it said that, UCIS are generally regarded  as being
characterised by a high degree  of volatility, illiquidity or both  and therefore  are usually
regarded as speculative  investments. This means that in practice they are rarely regarded as
suitable for more  than a small  share of an investors  portfolio.
In addition, a Financial  Services  Authority report in July 2010 (Unregulated Collective  Investment 
Schemes: Good and poor practice  report)  gives as an example of good practice: 
The firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS  investments within  their customers portfolio 
and monitored it on on-going  basis. This level was between 3% and 5% and was backed-up by the 
Firms robust  and on-going  due diligence and monitoring. 
The same  document  gave  as an example of poor practice: The firm had a strategy to put all of its 
customers and all their money into one UCIS.
I have also noted that Mr Gs representative has disputed much  of the detail recorded  on the Fact 
Find. It has said that Mr G did not own a BTL property, was unemployed and in receipt  of state 
benefits, including housing and council  tax benefit  and job seekers allowance. It has provided a letter 
from Mr Gs local council  which confirms that. It has said the only shares  he ever owned were given  to 
him by an insurance company  and these  were  sold before he met HTA. It also said he did have an 
ISA worth £2,500 but this was sold before he received  advice  from HTA.  
Even assuming the information  on the Fact Find was correct, there is no indication  that this was 
suitable for Mr G or he could bear the potential  losses.  
Bearing in mind  what HTA knew, it cannot fairly then carry out the administration so that the pension  
transfer and UCIS investment can go ahead, it being clear that this was wholly unsuitable for Mr G, 
and then claim that the transaction is execution only so as to limit its liability. COBS  2, FCA (the FSA) 
Handbook requires  that 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its client.    
I do not believe that HTA did so here. It should have  advised Mr G that the transfer and investment 
was not suitable for him.
did HTA cause Mr Gs loss
Mr G was dependent  on HTA to act in his best interests. I do not believe he could assess  the risks of 
investing in the Landbanking scheme for himself. 
If HTA had advised Mr G that he should not transfer or invest, I think  it more likely that he would have 
taken account of that guidance and it would  have  been  persuasive, coming from a professional 
regulated financial adviser. I think it would lead to him questioning the appropriateness  of investing. 
Ref: DRN55609957It follows that he would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, his pension to a SIPP. 
So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place  but for HTAs  actions.  Consequently  
any loss Mr G has suffered  through  transferring  to the SIPP and investing in the UCIS has been 
caused by HTA.    
fair compensation
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would  
be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice.
HTA must  undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mr 
Gs pension plan. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this. 
Had HTA given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr G continues to 
pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. I am not aware if the SIPP or investment still exists. The 
parties should let me know  in response to this provisional decision what  the current  situation is. If the 
SIPP exists and cant  be closed because the investment still exists and cant be sold then I will make 
an allowance for this in the final redress. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: Should my final decision remain  the same I will require  HTA to 
pay Mr G compensation  as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr G within 90 
days of the date HT receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes HTA to pay Mr G this 
compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I will also recommend that HTA pays Mr G the balance. I further  recommend interest to be added  to 
Ref: DRN55609958this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes HTA to 
pay Mr G from the date it receives notification of his acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr G accepts my determination, the money award  is binding on HTA.  My recommendation is not 
binding on HTA. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my determination  and go to court  to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing to him after the money award has been  paid. Mr G may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept the final decision.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint and intend  to make the award detailed above.  
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5560995