K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss S complain that Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance Limited charged them too 
much for their home insurance policy over a number of years. 
background
Mr S and Miss S took out their mortgage in 2005  together with linked home insurance (with 
Lloyds). Mr S and Miss S instructed the bank to collect the insurance premiums from them 
as part of their monthly mortgage payment. Unfortunately, the bank never collected the 
linked home  insurance  premiums from Mr S and Miss S. This meant that their monthly  
mortgage payment  was lower than it shouldve been. 
The bank paid the premium to the insurer  despite  not collecting it from Mr S and Miss S  
and it added the premiums to their mortgage  account. Interest  accrued  on them at the same 
rate as the mortgage. On carrying out a review of its customers mortgage accounts  in about 
2013, the bank discovered the error. 
In response to identifying  the error,  the bank completed some remediation  work to Mr S and 
Miss Ss mortgage account and applied a credit of approximately £4,000 to it. This included  
refunding 50% of the premiums that had been  added to their mortgage account between  
2005 and 2013 plus interest  and compensation. The bank also advised  Mr S and Miss S that 
their monthly contractual payment would increase to now include payment  of their insurance 
premium.
Mr S and Miss S complained to the bank about  what happened. They  said they should  have 
received a refund of 100% of the premiums and that they were unhappy that their monthly 
payment had increased. They  also said that their home insurance premiums had increased 
every year since  2005 which they thought  was the result of the house being the subject of a 
historical subsidence claim. The bank  looked  into their complaint but thought it had already 
fairly compensated them for the error.   
Mr S and Miss S complained this service. The part of their complaint that related to the 
mortgage linked insurance premium payment  error was looked  at by one of my ombudsman  
colleagues in 2016. He thought the credits applied by the bank to Mr S and Miss Ss 
mortgage account were  fair and in line with what this service typically  recommended in 
similar circumstances. He pointed out that Mr S and Miss S had the benefit of insurance 
cover since  2005 (and had made  claims) so he thought that refunding  50% of the premiums 
was fair. Following his involvement though, the bank agreed  to pay Mr S and Miss S 
compensation of £400 for the stress and upset its actions had caused them.
My colleague referred the part of Mr S and Miss Ss complaint that related  to the price theyd 
paid for their policy to another  adjudicator  to be investigated. The adjudicator  looked into the 
amount theyd paid in premiums over the years the policy was in force and the increases that 
had been applied. Mr S and Miss S said they felt badly treated because theyd taken out a 
new policy with Lloyds  in 2016 for just over £300 a year compared to the premium  in excess 
of £1,500 they had been  paying. 
Our adjudicator said that Mr S and Miss S had needed home insurance over the years   so 
they always wouldve  had to have paid something  for it. He noted theyd made a number of 
claims and that the new policy theyd taken  out may well have included  a new customer 
discount which partly  accounted for the lower  premium. Ultimately  our adjudicator thought  
Ref: DRN54472812that Mr S and Miss S had already received a refund (in the form of credit  to their mortgage 
account) that exceeded any refund he would recommend they receive. So he didnt think  
theyd suffered a financial  loss over and above what they had already been  compensated 
for. 
Mr S and Miss S disagreed with our adjudicators findings. They  said the compensation 
theyd received was for the banks  error  in failing to collect their premiums and adding them 
to their mortgage account instead. They said theyd received no compensation for the 
inflated premiums theyd unfairly paid over the years. 
Our adjudicator reconsidered Mr S and Miss Ss complaint.  He said thered been  three  
claims notified under the policy since 2009  which had impacted the premiums charged.  The 
claims had also reduced  the no claims discounts to zero for buildings cover  in 2013 and the 
same for contents cover in 2014.
Lloyds said the claims,  and the consequent erosion of the no claims discounts, had affected 
the premium. And it said Mr S and Miss S had contacted  it on more than one occasion 
through the years to negotiate a discount  which showed they had the ability to shop around.  
As they hadnt  taken their custom elsewhere they mustve been  happy with the deal they got. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S and Miss S, I dont think their complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr S and Miss S were required  as part of their mortgage conditions   to have buildings 
insurance. At the same time as taking their mortgage out they chose to insure their contents. 
So its reasonable to assume  they needed  and required  home insurance  for their house  
since 2005. That being the case, it is only reasonable for them  to have paid a premium for 
the cover  they received. They were clearly  happy  to do so as they asked for their premiums 
to be collected  as part of their monthly  mortgage  payments. Mr S and Miss S also benefitted 
from the cover provided by the policy as they made 3 claims between 2009  and 2014. 
The premiums they paid were:
2005/6: £461.16
2006/7: £532
2007/8: £582.66
2008/9: £671.58
2009/10: £739.16
2010/11: £829.05
2011/12 £1,000.07
2012/13: £1,300.46
2013/14: £1,299.87
2014/15: £1,504.29
2015/16: £1,507.56 (Mr S and Miss S paid £1,084.01  as they cancelled during this period)
Ref: DRN54472813Lloyds refunded just under 30% of the total premiums Mr S and Miss S paid whilst  the policy 
was in force (£2795.71). They also added interest  to the refund and credited it all to Mr S 
and Miss Ss mortgage account. 
I cant fairly ignore  the refund Mr S and Miss S received  in deciding whether they have been 
overcharged and/or have  had unfair  increases applied to their annual premiums. The refund 
(and the interest) is part of the landscape  of this complaint and, whilst I acknowledge that 
Mr S and Miss S would  like me to ignore it for the purposes of this complaint, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to do so. Thats because  it has had the effect of reducing what they paid for their 
cover over the years. And I have to decide whether theyve been treated fairly  by Lloyds as a 
result. 
I cant tell Lloyds what price it needs to charge  to cover the risk of insuring Mr S and Miss Ss 
home. Thats for it to decide, based  in part on the risk it thinks there is of them  needing to 
make a claim and its wider commercial requirements. What  this service  can do though,  
when a consumer  complains about  the price they have been charged, is look at whether the 
insurer has treated the consumer fairly  and whether it can explain why its charged the price 
it has. We can then explain to the consumer  that weve  checked  the price  theyve been 
charged and are satisfied  that theyve been treated  fairly  and in line with the way that the 
insurer has treated all its other customers with similar risk profiles. 
Insurers all assess  risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another. Insurers 
will also use different data when  assessing the risk posed. But thats not unfair.  We wouldnt  
generally tell Lloyds (or any insurer) that it should  use, or discount,  specific data. The risk is 
Lloyds to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will charge a price  accordingly. Each 
year, Lloyds is entitled to reassess its risk factors when setting the price of its policies. So 
prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. 
Lloyds has told us that Mr S and Miss S made  3 claims between 2009 and 2014  and that 
these affected  the premiums charged. In addition, its told us that in 2011,  Mr S and Miss S 
had 5 years no claims discount  on their buildings cover that reduced to zero at the next 
renewal (as a result of a claim being  made) and that the same happened with their no claims 
discount for contents cover following a claim in 2014. Lloyds takes the claims history  of all its 
customers into account when setting the premiums  it offers. Thats  not unfair. So I cant  say 
that its singled Mr S and Miss S out at all or treated them any differently from their other 
customers who had also made claims.  
And I can see that Mr S and Miss S contacted Lloyds  to negotiate a discount to their 
premium on more than one occasion.  So its reasonable to assume that they thought the 
revised price  they received reflected the cover and service offered. I know  that they secured 
cover (also  with Lloyds) in 2016  for a much smaller annual premium. But new policies often 
come with significant new business discounts in order to attract new customers. Insurers will 
often increase premiums  in the coming years to try and recoup some of the discounts 
applied in the early years.  
So whilst I can understand Mr S and Miss S concern at the difference in cost between  their 
old and new policies, I think  that in this case Lloyds  has been able to explain why that is. So 
this isnt a case  where I think that Mr S and Miss S have lost out because  Lloyds didnt  tell 
them about  the alternative policy at an earlier stage. Their claims history would have been 
relevant to the pricing of that policy in the earlier years too. So I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence here to say that the alternative  policy would always have been  available  at the low 
Ref: DRN54472814price that they were  ultimately able to obtain  it for. And given the refund that they received of 
half the policy premiums, the price  differential  between the two was not as excessive as it 
might otherwise look from the above premium history.
So I agree with our adjudicator that I dont think that Lloyds needs to pay Mr S or Miss S any 
further compensation than it has already paid. Clearly their pricing  journey  saw significant 
increases. And I can appreciate why Mr S and Miss S were unhappy with that. But if I were 
to have upheld  this complaint, the compensation that I would  have awarded  would  be less 
than they have already received as part of the mortgage error compensation, given the 50% 
premium refunds they received  as part of that. So its not appropriate  that I uphold this 
complaint, given Mr S and Miss S have already been compensated for any loss that I think 
theyve suffered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5447281