K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss Y have complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a decreasing term 
life and critical illness policy.   
References to Santander include  its former trading names. 
background
Mr N and Miss Y met with one of Santanders financial advisers in June 2005 to arrange a 
mortgage. They were  purchasing a property through a shared-ownership scheme and 
required a mortgage  to cover 40% of the property price. The remaining 60% would be owned 
by a housing association for which  Mr N and Miss Y would pay rent. 
The adviser recommended that Mr N and Miss Y should protect their mortgage  with a 
decreasing term life and critical illness policy (the policy)  which  matched the mortgage 
amount and term. Cover  started in October 2005  when their mortgage started. 
Having received advice from another bank,  Mr N and Miss Y complained  in 2018 that the 
policy had been  mis-sold.  They said they werent  made aware cover was optional  and noted 
Mr N had cover elsewhere. They also questioned  whether  the cover was needed as they 
didnt foresee a situation where  theyd  both die or become ill at the same time. They also 
argued that the policy didnt meet their needs  because it only covered the share of the 
property they owned  and not the 60% owned by the housing association. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that the 
policy was suitable  for Mr N and Miss Ys needs at the time and they were given enough 
information to understand  what the policy offered and the fact it was optional. He noted that 
while the policy only covered the percentage of the property Mr N and Miss Y owned the 
adviser had discussed the need to take out further  protection but this had been turned down. 
Mr N and Miss Y disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They maintained  that 
the policy wasnt suitable for them.  They said if one of them had died or becoming seriously 
ill the policy would only have repaid their mortgage,  but they were still at risk of losing their 
home if they couldnt  keep up with their rent payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr N and Miss Y, so Id like to explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive carefully considered  the available documentation from the time of the sale. Unfortunately 
this has been  quite limited due to the amount of time that passed since the policy was sold. I 
dont find this unusual  in the circumstances,  as its more than 14 years  since the policies 
were first sold.  Where evidence hasnt been  available, Ive reached  my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. 
Im satisfied that the recommended policy was suitable for Mr N and Miss Ys needs at the 
time. As they were taking  out a mortgage  it was reasonable for the adviser to recommend 
they take out protection for it. If either of them were to die or be diagnosed with a critical 
Ref: DRN56716622illness, it could place  them in financial  difficulties  if they couldnt maintain their mortgage 
repayments. The policy recommended matched the outstanding mortgage sum and term, 
and so provided suitable mortgage protection, which was identified  as a need at the time. 
I can see that the policy offered didnt cover the full property value, but Im satisfied this was 
considered and discussed at the point of sale. 
As part of the sale the adviser completed whats known as a fact find document, this 
recorded Mr N and Miss Ys circumstances  and needs at the time. When  discussing their 
needs and priorities  they were asked  Other than to cover  a new mortgage,  would you need 
an additional  lump  sum to meet  financial  needs were you to suffer a major illness or 
disease? to which they answered No. It was also recorded Looking to borrow  95,000 to 
purchase 40% of new property under  local authority shared  ownership  scheme.  Protection  
need over and above mortgage identified but would like advice limited to mortgage only. 
This demonstrates  to me that a conversation likely took place regarding the shared 
ownership of the property  and the fact that the 60% owned by the housing association  would  
be unprotected. But it seems Mr N and Miss Y chose not to address this need  at the time. 
While it may have been appropriate  for Mr N and Miss Y to take out additional cover to 
protect them in the event  they were unable  to make their rent payments, it doesnt  mean  the 
policy that was recommended was unsuitable.  Indeed a different type of policy  would likely 
have been needed to cover Mr N and Miss Ys ongoing rent liability.  If this was something 
they wanted to address at the time they could have  asked for this. 
Whilst I understand that Mr N and Miss Y have recently received advice thats led them to 
question the advice they received in 2005,  Ive seen nothing to suggest the policies  were  
unsuitable for their needs at the time,  or that they were mis-sold. So Im not upholding this 
complaint and I dont  require  Santander  to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5671662