1complaint
Mr S has complained about a series of payday  loans that he took out with MYJAR  Limited
background
Mr S took seven payday loans and six instalment loans from MYJAR  between February 2016 
and August 2017. The loan amounts varied  between £100 and £1,850. Mr S still owes  money 
to MYJAR.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss complaint be upheld in part. She thought it was 
reasonable of MYJAR to agree loans one to three.  The adjudicator thought that MYJAR  
shouldve carried out better checks for the remaining loans. However,  as Mr S wasnt  able to 
give us bank statements  or other evidence the adjudicator  couldnt  say what better  checks  
wouldve shown for loans four and five.
The adjudicator thought  that it was irresponsible of MYJAR to agree loans six to 13 as the 
overall pattern  of the borrowing was unsustainable.  The adjudicator asked MYJAR to put 
things right for loans  six to 13.
MYJAR doesnt agree with all of the adjudicators  recommendation but it has offered to put 
things right for loans  six and seven. 
MYJAR says it carried out proportionate affordability checks. MYJAR asks that we take 
account of the fact there was a gap between loans seven and eight. And that loans eight to 13 
were instalment loans  which spread the cost of Mr Ss borrowing. MYJAR also says that Mr S 
repaid some  of the loans very early.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints about 
short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry  practice - on 
our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN55804352the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  defines sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
loans one to three
It was early on in Mr Ss lending history. Each loan was relatively small in comparison to Mr Ss 
declared monthly income of £1,600 rising to £1,800 for loan three. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that MYJAR shouldve been  aware  of any negative  information on Mr Ss credit  
file.
Given the amounts  that Mr S borrowed and what he told MYJAR,  I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for MYJAR to ask Mr S for the level of information that would be needed to 
suggest the lending wasnt sustainable.
loans four and five
When Mr S applied  for loan four, he borrowed more than three times the amount of each of the 
previous three loans.  And Mr S had been  asking  for a new loan shortly  after repaying each 
previous loan. Even though Mr S declared  a slightly higher monthly income of £2,000, I think 
that as well as asking Mr S about  his living costs and regular financial commitments,  MYJAR 
shouldve also tried to find out whether Mr S had any other short  term loans.
By loan five, I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect MYJAR  to try and verify the financial 
information that Mr S was giving.
As Mr S hasnt  given  us bank statements or other evidence of his financial situation at the time 
of loans four and five, I cant say what MYJAR  wouldve discovered with better checks. It 
follows that I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint about  loans  four and five.
loan six and seven  
MYJAR has already  agreed to put things right for loan six and seven. As there doesnt appear  
to be any dispute  about these two loans, I dont think I need  to say anything  further about 
Ref: DRN55804353them. However, Ive taken account of loans six and seven when coming  to my decision on 
loans eight to 13.
loans eight to 13
Although there was a gap between repaying  loan seven and asking for loan eight, I dont think  
it was significant  enough to break the chain of lending. By this time,  Mr S had been  borrowing 
from MYJAR  for around nine months. And in the first five months of Mr Ss lending relationship 
with MYJAR, hed taken  out six loans of steadily  increasing amounts.  
Even though  Mr S was able to repay the later loans by instalments, he was often borrowing 
significantly greater amounts. Loan  nine for £1,200 was taken out nine months after hed 
started to borrow from MYJAR.  Mr S then borrowed £1,850 in August  2017. Mr S had 
continued to pay large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an 
extended period.  
I think that by loan six MYJAR  shouldve reasonably seen  that further lending was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. As there wasnt a significant break between any of the 
lending, I dont think that MYJAR  shouldve agreed  loans six to 13. 
I think that Mr S lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
the loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ss ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
Mr S has had the benefit of the money lent to him so its fair that MYJAR  should, if it wants to, 
apply the compensation against the outstanding  principal balance on loan 13.
putting things right
MYJAR should:
Refund any interest and charges that Mr S has paid on loans six to 13;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan 13;
If it chooses  to, apply, the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loan 13 before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr S**; and
Remove any entries about loans six to 13 about  the loan from Mr Ss credit file
If MYJAR  has sold the remaining debt to a third party  debt purchaser  it should buy it back  
before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, MYJAR should (in addition to the above 
if necessary):
Arrange to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of interest  
and charges  including any added  by the third party;
Ref: DRN55804354Refund any interest and charges that Mr S has already paid to the third party, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
Instruct  the third party to remove any entries  about loans six to 13 from Mr Ss credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If MYJAR intends  to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking the above steps there is still a principal balance  due, I remind MYJAR of its 
obligation to treat any repayment offer that Mr S might make,  sympathetically  and reasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right,  MYJAR Limited 
should take the steps outlined in the above  bullet  points. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5580435