K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit card repayments.
background
Mrs G applied for a credit  card by post in August  2007. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit  card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld because  she thought Mrs G 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs G disagrees.  She says PPI was added without her knowledge.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and will explain why.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mrs G completed an application form for a credit card.  
Capital One has given us a copy of the application form Mrs G completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Directly 
under this it gives the option to select PPI and the option to not have it. I can see on Mrs Gs 
application form a tick has been placed next to the option to have it. 
So I think because Mrs G selected  to take PPI with a tick she understood she had a choice 
in taking the policy and wanted  the cover. If Mrs G didnt want to take out PPI she couldve 
ticked next to the option declining the policy. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Capital One advised  
Mrs G to take PPI. What this means  is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mrs G, it 
just gave her information about PPI. This information needed to be given  in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so she could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital  One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even  if 
Capital One did give all the information Mrs G needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because  at the time of sale from what 
we know about  Capital One policies:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
Ref: DRN55606382At the time of the sale Mrs G says she was entitled to 6 months full and 6 months half 
sick pay. But I think the policy wouldve helped her in an extended time of need, so I 
dont think her circumstances at the time wouldve  put her off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs G and she could cancel  
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs G on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital  One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about  
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid the amount  of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  to an IVA practitioner - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5560638