K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) closed their current  account. 
Theyve also complained  that a member of staff was rude during a phone call when they 
rang to ask for more information  about  the account  closure.
background
Mr and Mrs F held an Advance current account  with HSBC. They also had a savings 
account.
In December 2018, HSBC sent Mr and Mrs F a letter  to say that it would be closing their 
account ending  1170 (the Advance account) on 11 February 2019. Both the current account 
and savings account were subsequently  closed in January 2019.
Mr F contacted HSBC on 17 December 2018  to find out more  information about why the 
account had been closed.  Mr F says it was during this phone call that the person he spoke  to 
at HSBC was rude to him. Hes also unhappy that HSBC werent able to be more  specific as 
to why the account was being  closed.
Later in December, HSBC  responded to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about the account 
closures  stating that the reason for closure  was because of the operation of the accounts  
this includes account  activity and transactions.
Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy with HSBCs response. They still believe they havent  been 
given a specific reason  why HSBC chose to close their accounts  and Mr F feels  the person 
he spoke to was rude.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint in Mr and Mrs Fs favour. He said he thought 
HSBC had acted  in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And he felt that the 
person Mr F spoke to at HSBC was calm and professional. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been passed  to 
me to make a decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have  made two separate complaint points, so Ill deal with each of these 
separately below.
complaint about  the account  closures
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs current account. The terms and 
conditions state  that We can also end the agreement and close your accounts  by giving you 
at least two months notice.  HSBC sent a letter to 
Ref: DRN52063292Mr and Mrs F on 13 December 2018 saying that it was giving Mr and Mrs F 60 days notice 
of its intention to close  the account   and the account would be closed on 11 February 2019.
Based on what the terms and conditions of the account say, I think  that Mr and Mrs F should 
have been given until 
13 February 2019 before the account  was closed, as this would  have been  two full months  
as the terms and conditions state would be the minimum  notice. But I dont think  this has had 
much of an impact on Mr and Mrs F. 
The account  was due to close in any event,  and I dont think  the extra  two days would have 
made much difference to them. The letter sent to Mr and Mrs F confirmed  the date the 
account would be closed  11 February 2019.  And I can see that 
Mr and Mrs F switched  to a different provider on 18 January 2019. So this was well ahead  of 
the date HSBC said theyd be closing the account.
So although  I think HSBC  could have done  better here, Im not going to ask them to 
compensate Mr and Mrs F. 
The letter HSBC sent to Mr and Mrs F didnt specifically mention the savings account they 
held would be closed  too. The letter makes reference to possible other accounts and that it 
no longer wanted  to provide Mr and Mrs F with banking facilities. I think HSBC could have 
been clearer it was also closing the savings  account, especially  given  the letter only referred 
to the account  number  for the current account. 
HSBC said the savings account was closed with the current  account once the switch to a 
different bank had taken  place. HSBC also say that the balance  of the savings account was 
transferred to the current account before it closed. 
So again,  although HSBC could have been clearer about the decision it had made to close 
all the accounts,  I dont think Mr and Mrs F have suffered  any financial loss as a result of 
this. And as with the current account,  HSBC  are entitled to close  savings accounts if they no 
longer wish to provide  banking facilities.
I understand Mr and Mrs F are frustrated HSBC hasnt given them, what  they feel to be, a 
specific reason for why the account was closed. The terms and conditions state that it only 
needs to give a reason for account closure  if the account is a Basic Bank Account. As this 
account is an Advance account,  I dont think there  was any requirement for HSBC let 
Mr and Mrs F know why the account closed.
But HSBC  did let Mr and Mrs F know  that the reason it chose to close  the account  was 
because it wasnt happy with how the account was being run  this includes the account 
activity and transactions. This explanation was more than what  HSBC  was required to give, 
and so I cant say HSBC has done  anything  wrong  here.
call with HSBC advisor
Ive listened carefully  to the call in question. Having done so, Im not upholding this part of 
the complaint  either. 
Ref: DRN52063293Mr F became quite upset  during the call and I can understand  why the situation regarding 
the account closure caused would have been frustrating. There were  a few occasions  during 
the call where the communication broke down. But I cant agree that HSBCs representative 
treated Mr F unfairly. I think  the representative tried to give Mr F as much  information as she 
could to help him understand  why HSBC might have chosen  to close the account. And in my 
view, I dont think she was rude.  So Im not going  to ask HSBC  to do anything here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019. 
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5206329