K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs representative complained that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc advised them  
to invest too much of their money  in risk-based products and that the funds recommended  
were too risky, particularly  given  they were first-time  investors.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 18 December  2018. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
NatWest added that the result of its advice meant £53,000 of Mr and Mrs Hs £82,000 was 
invested - and not £79,000 as I indicated.  Also,  that it had not meant to imply the £3,000 
demutualised shares had come from the £10,000  share pot.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  outlined  in that decision I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld  
and that compensation should be based  on Mr and Mrs H only investing £5,000 each in the 
recommended ISA-held  products. I believe  the other £5,000 (each) should  have been 
invested in a low/cautious risk product,  again  for the reasons previously  outlined.
NatWest should  therefore compare the return they each received on £5,000 of the £10,000 
they invested with what they would have earned  if these  sums had been invested in a 
suitably low risk product. To do this it should  use this services recommended  formula  for 
assessing potential  returns on low risk investments: that is an equal combination of the 
returns on Bank of England bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity  and the returns shown via 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Total Income  Index.  
In making this calculation  it should take into account  50% of any withdrawals Mr or Mrs H 
respectively made (this being  a fair percentage).  If this calculation shows a loss it should pay 
this and add 8% simple  interest per annum to this loss figure from the date of surrender of 
their respective ISA-held products to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  National Westminster Bank  Plc to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59865752provisional decision
complaint
Mrs and Mr Hs representative complained that National Westminster Bank Plc advised them to invest  
too much of their money into risk-based products and that the funds  recommended were too risky,  
particularly given they were first-time investors.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs H had £71,000 on deposit, partly  due to a recent inheritance,  plus £3,000 in 
building society shares. The advisor recorded that Mr H intended to use £10,000 of this money  to 
dabble in shares  and that they were due to receive a further £8,000 inheritance. They were advised 
to invest  a total of £40,000  split between a joint bond and two individual ISAs. So when added to their 
existing shares and the proposed  new share purchases, this would  result in £53,000 of their projected 
money £79,000 in risk-based products.
The advisor  told them  that the ISA funds were medium risk while the £20,000 was split equally 
between two funds, one low risk (the Security Managed fund) and one medium risk (the Growth 
Managed fund).  This meant that £30,000 was exposed to a medium risk and £10,000 to a low risk, 
according to the advisor.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  He felt Mr and Mrs 
H should  have been advised  to keep 50% of their money in risk-free products i.e. to invest no more 
than £28,000 (taking account of their existing  shares, proposed share acquisitions  and forthcoming  
inheritance).
He also felt that too much of their money was exposed to too much risk, given Mr and Mrs H 
appeared to have no real investment experience  beyond  owning  some demutualised  shares.
He acknowledged that there were a variety of possible ways  to deliver  reasonable compensation, but 
felt the following redress was simple and fair:
NatWest should calculate compensation on the basis that Mr and Mrs H should  only have put £4,000 
each into their risk-based ISAs (rather than £10,000 each), and the return  theyd got on the other 
£6,000 each  should be compared with the returns  available  via the Bank of Englands  fixed-rate 
bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity. It should also compare the returns on the remaining £4,000 theyd 
put into the ISAs with what  they might  have  got via a low risk investment  (given these  ISA funds  were 
medium risk). To do this it should use the low risk formula recommended by this service known as 
50/50 (which  he outlined)
He said NatWest should  then add 8% simple interest per annum to these losses, from the date the 
ISAs were surrendered  to the date of settlement  of this complaint. If NatWest had recommended  this 
mix of low and no risk investments for the £20,000  theyd  put in the ISAs, he felt the other £20,000 
jointly invested in a bond containing an equal mix of low and medium risk funds would have been 
appropriate. He therefore  did not feel compensation needed to be paid in relation to this investment.
The adjudicators formula was broadly based on two assumptions: that Mr and Mrs H should  of this 
half should have been in medium risk ones (the other two thirds  being in low risk).
NatWest disagreed, and said:
The fact that Mr H may have dabbled in shares  previously and was prepared  to put aside 
£10,000 to undertake  this high risk undertaking strengthens its view that the amount placed at 
risk wasnt too high for their risk appetite
Mr and Mrs H had a substantial disposable income  which could easily increase their wealth 
over a short period  time, and therefore build  up their cash reserves
Ref: DRN59865753It does  not agree  that the customers invested too much overall  and believes that the ISA 
funds selected were suitable for their documented needs and objectives
Mr H may have purchased the £3,000 building society shares out of the £10,000 that the 
advisor recorded  him wanting to use to dabble  in shares
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that it is often appropriate to recommend putting  at risk no more  than half 
of a clients  assets,  particularly if s/he has little investment  experience. But in this case I am not 
persuaded the advisor should have said that £40,000 was definitely  too much.
Firstly, the evidence  suggests Mr and Mrs H wanted to invest this amount  (rather than the advisor 
coming up with this figure), possibly because this was the sum recently inherited. They were still left 
with a very substantial amount in cash, along  with a significant  monthly income surplus,  after this 
investment. As a result  they appeared easily  able to make this level of investment without needing to 
cash it in early. Mr Hs desire to use £10,000 to dabble  in shares  also underlines his apparent  
decision to make  some investments with this newly-acquired money.
So I dont believe  NatWest  should pay compensation on the basis that some of this money should  not 
have been invested at all.
However, I am not convinced it was appropriate to recommend putting  70% - let alone  75% - of this 
money in what were  medium risk funds i.e. the ISAs and half of the bond.  I note that NatWest and the 
adjudicator did not appear to agree  about  a number  of aspects of the products, their literature and risk 
levels. But, from what  Ive read, there seems  to be an acceptance about  the overall  risk levels of the 
respective products.
The advisor  recorded that Mr and Mrs H were comfortable  with a 60/40 split between medium and low 
risk investments but then recommended  a 70/30 split. Mr and Mrs H then chose to alter the balance 
between the investments in the ISAs  and the bond, probably due to ISA limits having increased, and 
this resulted in a 75/25 split. Ive seen no evidence that the advisor warned them this resulted in them 
far exceeding the 60/40  which hed recorded they were  happy  with (something which I dont feel was 
suitable in any case). So I am satisfied that NatWest should  be responsible for the advice regarding 
the final invested sums.
On top of this Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate  that the advisor  fully explained  what the 
implications of words like medium or low risk meant. Given Mr and Mrs H had no experience of these 
sorts of risk-based investments (I dont count their ownership of, potentially  demutualised, building 
society shares). I think he needed to do far more to ensure Mr and Mrs H fully understood the 
potential implications  of these risk categories.
On balance, taking account  of their lack of investment experience and general circumstances, I feel 
that they should not have  been advised to invest more than half the £40,000  in medium  risk products.  
If so advised,  I think it is more likely than not that they would have agreed to a recommendation  to 
split their money equally between medium  and low risk funds.
I am satisfied  that the £20,000  in the bond contained this sort of low/medium mix and so I dont 
believe this was an unreasonable recommendation, and therefore dont intend to instruct NatWest to 
pay any compensation on this product. By contrast,  all the money  invested in their individual ISAs was 
exposed to a medium level of risk which  I think was not sensible or appropriate. So I intend to instruct 
NatWest to pay compensation  on the basis that they should have been advised  to expose half of this 
money to a low risk only by comparing the return  they got on 50% of their invested ISA sums with 
what they would have got via a more  suitable low risk product.
Ref: DRN59865754It should do this by using the formula recommended by this service as suitable for calculating likely 
returns on a low risk investment, known as 50/50. In making such a calculation  NatWest should  factor 
in the various  withdrawals, assuming that half of each withdrawal should be taken  into account when 
assessing potential loss. I will set this out in detail  in my final decision.  It should also add 8% simple 
interest per annum on any loss from the date each ISA was surrendered  to the date of settlement of 
this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct NatWest  to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986575