K820x#14complaint
The complaints about a mortgage  Mr and Mrs W used to have with HSBC Bank Plc. The 
property that secured  the debt was destroyed by fire, and sometime later, the empty plot was 
taken into possession and sold by HSBC at auction  leaving  a shortfall. Mr and Mrs W say 
HSBC sold it at too low a price, not least because it ignored an offer from their daughter to 
buy it for more than it sold for. They want the shortfall either reduced or written  off altogether.
background
Mr and Mrs W lived in a property located on a plot of land theyd acquired from Mr Ws 
parents, who owned the surrounding  land. The property was subject to a mortgage from 
HSBC. In 2008, the property was destroyed by fire. Mr and Mrs W claimed  on their home 
insurance, and used the money to build  a mobile home,  where they still live now. 
In 2014, HSBC obtained possession of the empty plot that was the mortgaged  property.  In 
April 2015, solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs W wrote to the banks solicitors suggesting their 
daughter buy the plot for £50,000.  This wasnt pursued,  and after several months  of disputes 
and enquiries  over the exact boundaries of the plot, HSBC put the property  into public 
auction, where it sold for £20,000. After costs  of sale were accounted for, the net sale 
proceeds were applied to the mortgage  balance leaving a shortfall of about  £169,000,  which  
HSBC said Mr and Mrs W were liable for.
Mr and Mrs W complained that the property  had been sold for less than it was worth. HSBC 
issued a final response in February 2016  rejecting the complaint. But in March  2016, it wrote 
 mistakenly as it turned out  telling Mr and Mrs W the mortgage had been repaid  in full. 
Mr and Mrs W say they took the bank  at its word and thinking they were free from any further 
liability, invested around £207,000 in plant and machinery for their business.
When HSBC subsequently realised its mistake  and wrote asking Mr and Mrs W for shortfall 
repayment proposals, they referred their complaint to us. HSBC argued  theyd referred  the 
complaint to us more  than six months after it had issued its final response.  The case  was 
referred to me to decide  if the complaint was time-barred under our rules.  
I decided that it wasnt;  although our rules do require consumers to refer a complaint  to us 
within six months of a business final response, there are provisions for us to disregard the 
time limits in exceptional  circumstances. Here, I considered that HSBCs error in telling 
Mr and Mrs W the mortgage had been repaid took away their need to complain, which was 
only reinstated after the bank corrected its error.
The case  was then looked at by one of our adjudicators, who didnt uphold the complaint on 
its merits. Mr and Mrs W now wish to have  the complaint  reviewed by an ombudsman.  Their 
representative, Mr R, asked that they be allowed a personal hearing to put their case  to us, 
but I decided that wasnt  necessary.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
Ref: DRN50566032customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
The main  thrust of this complaint is the amount for which HSBC sold the empty plot of land 
that comprised  its security. The starting  point is that a lender  in possession has a duty to sell 
the property for the best price achievable  within a reasonable  period of time (my italics). 
It may be a rather subjective test but the approach  we take,  in essence, is that a lender 
shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus  
potentially adding further to the borrowers  interest costs) to achieve an unrealistically  high 
price.
Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
generally required to obtain two independent valuations, and then to market  the property  
with a view to achieving  a selling price at, or close to, the valuations.  Taking into account 
unusual nature of the problem of selling an empty plot, Im satisfied thats what  HSBC did. 
Ive seen the banks possession file, and this shows that two opinions were sought  on the 
likely price achievable for the plot. Both said that it was probably worth  between £5,000 and 
£10,000 without  planning permission, and between  £35,000 and £50,000 with planning 
permission. On that point, the advice HSBC received was that permission had been granted  
in 2009 but had lapsed in 2012. Mr R argues that this advice was wrong because work  had 
begun on the plot. I cant say if thats true or not, but I dont have to. The point here is that 
HSBC was entitled to rely on the expert advice it received.  If that advice is later revealed  to 
be wrong, that doesnt mean HSBC was wrong  to rely on it.
The property was presented at auction as being  without  planning  permission, and sold for 
£20,000. I think the price  achieved  was reasonable; broadly double  the best estimate of its 
likely value  without planning permission. The sale was also achieved within what I regard as 
a reasonable timeframe,  bearing in mind that the mortgage continued  to accrue  interest until 
the sale was completed.  I accept it took a long time to get the plot to market, but Im satisfied 
from viewing all of the evidence that there were genuine questions  about the boundary  of the 
plot, and access  to it, that required  clarification  first.
Ultimately, any property  is only worth  what someone  is willing to pay for it at any given time. 
And that brings  me to the question of the proposal that Mr and Mrs Ws daughter  (whom Ill 
refer to as Ms W going forward) buy the plot for £50,000. HSBC says it wasnt made aware 
of the proposal;  that may or may not be true, but the solicitors appointed as its agent clearly 
were. But its important  to keep in mind  that the suggestion that Ms W pay £50,000  for the 
plot was only one part of a wider settlement proposal that came with conditions (one of 
which was their agreeing  to sell another plot of land).
It does look as though that wider settlement proposal was never relayed to HSBC;  if so, 
thats an omission on the part of the banks agent. But it cant be assumed that, if the wider 
Ref: DRN50566033proposal had reached HSBC, the bank would  have found it acceptable. Nor can it be 
assumed that Mr and Mrs W would have been  able to meet  all of the conditions attached to 
it, such that the transaction could have  been  completed. 
But even if HSBC wasnt aware Ms W was willing to pay £50,000 for the plot, Mr and Mrs W 
were aware, and it seems  fair to presume  Ms W herself also knew. That begs the question of 
why the proposal  wasnt followed up when HSBC  didnt  come back  on it, or indeed  why 
Ms W didnt  contact the bank (or the auction house) herself to tell it of her intention to buy 
the plot for £50,000.  All in all, Im not persuaded that HSBC,  either  by design or omission, 
passed up a genuine opportunity to sell the plot for a price that represented roughly ten 
times the best estimate  of its likely  value.
Ive next considered the mistaken statement from HSBC  that the outstanding mortgage had 
been settled. HSBC didnt say where  the money had come from, and Mr and Mrs W have 
said they thought the money  to pay it might have come from an insurance claim.  Clearly that 
couldnt have  been the property insurance  as that was their own policy  and theyd claimed 
on it successfully after the fire. 
Theyve subsequently  said (or more accurately, Mr R on their behalf  has said) they thought 
HSBC might have some  form of insurance  of its own that paid the mortgage off. Thats not 
entirely implausible, but ultimately its a moot point,  as its now known the mortgage balance 
never was paid off; HSBC  told them  this by mistake. That brings  me to the argument that 
Mr and Mrs W changed their position in reliance on that mistake.
To support this, Mr R has sent copies of invoices for a number of substantial  purchases of 
plant and machinery  that Mr and Mrs W made.  Ive studied these carefully, and they all look 
perfectly legitimate  and genuine. The only difficulty,  as far as Mr and Mrs Ws argument is 
concerned, is that the invoices are dated  between July 2017  and March  2018. HSBCs first 
letter of correction to inform Mr and Mrs W that the mortgage debt was still outstanding is 
dated 15 June  2017. What this means  is that Mr and Mrs W spent in the region of £207,000 
after HSBC  had corrected  its mistake about  the outstanding mortgage shortfall of around  
£169,000.
When I put all of the above together and set aside all the noise around the edges, theres 
no basis for me to find that HSBC cant fairly look to Mr and Mrs W for reasonable proposals 
to repay  the mortgage shortfall.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above, is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5056603