K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a regular monthly  premium  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a mortgage  in, or around 1990.
background
Mr J says he too out a mortgage sometime between 1988 and 1990 and at the same time a 
PPI policy  was added to his account.  He says he was told nothing about the policy,  it was 
just added as part of the mortgage.
Santander rejected  this complaint. It says the policy wasnt  taken out until May 1996, and 
although the mortgage was redeemed in 1999, the evidence shows that the policy wasnt 
cancelled by Mr J until May 2002.
The PPI provided  cover for Mr J in the event that he wasnt working due to an accident,  
sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £10.26 each month and wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £200 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint,  but Mr J disagreed with this. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr Js 
case. And having  done so, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Both the mortgage  and the PPI were taken out more than 20 years  ago, and were  closed 
nearly 20 years ago  so its unsurprising neither party has been able to provide much  
detailed information  about the sale. And in these  situations, I have to look at what I think  is 
more likely to have  happened.
I dont doubt that Mr J has given his honest  recollections of the sale but I have to accept that 
after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence whatsoever 
to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr J didnt have a choice in taking it out. And 
as the policy  was sold some years  after the mortgage started, it cant  have been a condition 
of the mortgage.  So, with the very limited information I do have and from what  I know about 
Santander PPI sales around this time,  I cant fairly say that Mr J didnt have a choice about 
taking it.
Santander recommended  the PPI. So it had to take adequate steps to make  sure it was 
suitable for Mr J. I dont know what the adviser  said to Mr J about PPI or whether Santander 
did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. Because  even if 
Santander didnt  take adequate steps,  I think the PPI was suitable  for him for the following 
reasons: 
Mr J met the PPIs requirements  he was eligible  for it. And Ive set out the PPIs  
costs and main benefits above.
Ref: DRN54370822Whilst Mr J received  some occupational benefits; between  six and twelve months 
sick pay, this does not automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is 
because if he were  unable to work, the PPI was intended to remove  the additional 
pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments,  at what would likely be a difficult time. 
Mr J told us he had some  savings  but the policy  would also have allowed him to 
leave these savings  for the purpose that theyd intended as well as other essential 
expenses at what is likely to be a difficult time financially  if Mr J had lost his job.
The mortgage was taken out over 25 years and the PPI wouldve paid the monthly  
mortgage costs  for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any 
other cover he may have had. So I dont think any existing cover or savings that Mr J 
may have had wouldve made the PPI unsuitable.
Nothing Mr J told us suggested he needed to keep his costs  down. And there wasnt 
anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr J to claim.  For example, he said 
he was employed  and in good  health when the PPI was sold. So, he wouldnt have 
been affected by things  in it about  unusual work or known health issues. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mr J.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr J before he agreed to 
purchase it. I dont know he was told it would cost £10.26 each month  until after the cover  
had started. For this reason  Ive considered whether  clearer  information about the cost 
wouldve affected his decision  to purchase  the policy. But he had chosen to take out the 
policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy  was competitively priced  
and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely he wouldve made  a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been  provided.  And as this was a regular monthly  
premium policy,  if Mr J decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that he no longer wanted  
the policy, he couldve cancelled it without penalty.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437082