K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm  where  or when the 
policy was taken out. It assumes it was in 1987 when the card started, although its records  
dont show PPI being charged  on the account until 2001. The policy gave Mr P protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what  I think  is most likely  given  the 
available evidence and what  we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr P said - that he was unaware the policy  was 
optional or that he had it. There isnt much information  to go on in this case, because 
everything happened so long ago. And I dont  think its surprising or unreasonable  
Lloyds doesnt  have Mr Ps application form any more. 
I have taken into account Mr Ps comments, but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what he recalls. So, without stronger evidence,  I 
cant fairly conclude  Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr P without giving him a choice, and him 
agreeing to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P. This means  Lloyds had to make  
sure it was right for him. I think  it was suitable based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr P was entitled to statutory sick pay and some  redundancy 
pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this for up to 12 months for all 
successful claims. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve  been useful to Mr P if he was 
sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, based  on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations.  And, given what we 
know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these  years,  the policy  wouldve been  
competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr P was eligible for the policy 
given his circumstances at the time and the policys terms  and conditions.  So I think it 
unlikely Mr P wouldve  made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr P has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
Ref: DRN56220952my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622095