K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J bought  the policy in October 1991,  around the same  time as arranging  their 
mortgage (with it and the mortgage  going  live in January 1992). Although it was a joint 
mortgage, the policy covered Mr J only for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say they think the PPI was sold to them when they were  written to without 
encouragement about it. They say they were pressured into buying  it out of fear and naivety, 
either by the implications  stated in the letter or by subsequent conversations  with YBS.
Looking at the mortgage application form, there  is a box to tick if someone  required PPI. This 
hasnt been ticked, but there  is a handwritten  note in that section saying Please quote. 
Mr and Mrs J signed this form on 14 October  1991.  So it appears  to me that, at this point, 
Mr and Mrs J knew they didnt have  to have the PPI if they didnt want it, but they were 
interested enough in it to ask for further information  about the cost.
Following the mortgage  application, it seems that Mr and Mrs J were then sent details about 
the policy and the PPI application form. The form has been filled in to request cover for Mr J 
only, with a monthly benefit amount  of £400. Mr J has signed it as the prospective  
policyholder, and then Mr and Mrs J have signed  it as the joint mortgagees. The form is 
dated 22 October 1991.
Mr and Mrs J were then sent a mortgage  offer on 11 November 1991. This shows  the cost of 
the PPI as being £23 per month.  The offer also includes a statement saying: Mr J has 
elected to take out the Key Payment Protection  Plan to provide a monthly benefit of £400.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs J have said about feeling pressured into buying the 
policy. It seems  there must have been some  discussion about the PPI and what  its purpose 
was  that it covered the mortgage payments if Mr J was unable to work  due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Having such a discussion  would have caused Mr and Mrs J to 
think about those  sorts  of scenarios when  Mr J was unable  to work. But I dont consider 
providing information about the benefits of the policy amounts to pressure, or that it was 
scaremongering.
Ref: DRN59541782The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Js 
memory of events has faded. From the available evidence  it seems to me that the policy  was 
presented as optional and that Mr and Mrs J decided  to buy it, knowing that they didnt have 
to, even if they no longer remember doing  so.
Mr and Mrs J say they were advised to buy the policy, whereas YBS says it didnt provide 
advice. I dont need to make  a finding  on this issue  because it doesnt make  a difference to 
my decision.  If YBS did provide advice, in recommending the policy  it would have needed to 
ensure that it met the couples needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Looking at details  on the mortgage application, it appears that Mr J was the main wage 
earner, so it seems reasonable that the policy was set up just for him.
Mr J would have received at least six months full sick pay, but the policy  would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay for. The 
couple had some savings, but having  the policy means they could have retained these or 
used them to cover  other  outgoings at what would have been  a difficult  time.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr and Mrs J had an interest  in 
protecting their repayments.
Its possible that YBS didnt provide  as much information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr J wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr and Mrs J had an interest  in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds.
Which means that YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. 
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs J the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs J 8%* simple interest on each payment (15%  on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN59541783The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5954178