K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains Virgin Money  plc will not refund a disputed transaction.  She also 
complains about  the service she received  when  she complained.
background
Mrs C had booked and paid for car rental  in the United Sates  with company S.  This was all 
prepaid before her and her family arrived in the US in May 2018.
The car rental was for 22 days.  But  Mrs C says she was charged an extra £307.35 on her 
Virgin card when she returned to the UK - so she queried this with Virgin. Virgin credited her 
account with the sum whilst it queried the transaction with S. It then wrote to her in July 2018  
to tell her that the provisional credit  which had been applied to her account was now going to 
remain in her account and she did not need  to do anything more.
Virgin subsequently debited Mrs Cs account with the full amount  without  telling her.  In fact it 
debited slightly more  than it had credited but that was an error due to the exchange  rate.  It 
quickly rectified that issue.
In relation to the debit, it told Mrs C she had received a partial refund from S for the disputed  
transaction.  The remaining balance was owed  by Mrs C as she had signed  and accepted  a 
further agreement.
S had indeed provided Mrs C with a refund.  Almost two thirds of the what  it had originally 
taken from her account  so £206.20 was refunded.  It said this was done as a gesture of 
goodwill.  There was no further explanation  from S.
But Mrs C wanted the full amount refunded.  When presented with the estimated bill which  
amounted to the outstanding amount of £109.44, she argued it was just that  an estimate  
and she had never agreed to paying that.
Virgin did not agree to issue a full refund.  It offered £60 as a gesture of goodwill.
When the complaint  was brought to our service,  our investigator looked into matters for Mrs 
C.  She (the investigator) explained  she would  not be asking Virgin  to do anymore.  She 
thought Mrs C had had the benefit of an upgrade on her vehicle and some insurance  cover 
as an added extra.
Mrs C submitted again she was not obliged to pay an estimated figure and asked that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I think  Mrs C had the benefit of some 
added extras to her car rental  such as an upgrade and insurance cover.
I also note that the payment which has not been refunded is that which appears on a further 
agreement which has been  signed by Mrs C.  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to say Virgin should refund this.
Ref: DRN51392002Mrs C says she never agreed to this payment  but she must have handed her card over to 
Ss representatives otherwise there  was no other  way they would have obtained her details.  
The prepaid original  amount  had not been  paid for using  Mrs Cs Virgin card.   S has also told 
this service it would  not have let Mrs C drive away in an upgrade without  having  her 
agreement beforehand.
So, I think she did authorise  the £109.44.  Whether  she agreed to or knew  the additional 
£206.20 would be charged has become somewhat academic as that has been refunded 
once S was challenged by Virgin.
Turning then to the service received  during her complaint.  I agree it fell short of what would 
normally be expected.   I also think the letter in July 2018 was misleading  as it appeared to 
suggest the provisional credit was now final.  That clearly wasnt the case.
And I also agree it would have been  fair to expect Virgin  to tell Mrs C when it had made the 
decision to re-debit her account.  It failed to do this.
For these reasons, I think the offer of £60 falls short of what I would award  in the 
circumstances of this case.
I think Virgin should make  an award of £100  in total for the poor service  provided. This 
includes the £60 already  offered  not in addition  to it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Virgin Money plc should  pay Mrs C £100  in total for the poor service it provided  in dealing 
with her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5139200