K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Fortrade Limited  gave him unsuitable  trading  advice  on his contracts for 
difference investment account. He says this resulted in him making  a loss.
background
Mr H held a contracts for difference (CFD) trading account with Fortrade and had been 
trading with them since June 2018.  He placed  around 120 trades between  June  to 
December 2018.  He says his allocated  account manager was unprofessional and gave him 
trading advice. He says he was not well informed about the nature of CFDs and he felt these 
were not suitable  for him to trade  because  he was inexperienced and didnt understand the 
risks involved. He also says he wasnt happy  that hed been  considered  a professional  client 
and hed been pressured into applying for this. So, he contacted  Fortrade to complain  in 
December 2018.
In their response, Fortrade say there  was no evidence that the account manager was 
unprofessional. They  say Mr H maintained  regular  communication  with her throughout the 
six month period  of trading  and hadnt  previously  mentioned any concerns. They say he was 
well informed about the nature and risks of CFDs and when his account was opened, an 
assessment of his understanding  and financial situation  was completed. In addition, they say 
the account manager didnt give him any advice and that they operate  on an execution  only 
basis. They  say she continued  to give him information to assist  him and that she did 
communicate to him the risks involved.  They also confirm that they rejected his professional 
client application and had kept Mr H as a retail client. They rejected Mr Hs complaint, so he 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator concluded that Fortrade  had given Mr H advice contrary  to the terms and 
conditions of the business and this is something  he could refer to the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Nevertheless, he felt Mr H did appreciate the risks involved and had continued to 
trade with Fortrade  despite the complaint he had made. He said there wasnt  anything to 
suggest he was pressured into applying for professional client status  and didnt uphold  the 
complaint. Mr H didnt agree so this has come to me for a decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September 2020 explaining why I was intending  to 
uphold the complaint  my thoughts were as follows.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, and based on what Ive 
seen so far, Im thinking of coming  to a different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
suitability
Suitability is assessed  based on information  the firm obtains about whether the client  has 
sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved in the service  or 
product being  offered. It considers what the consumers  investment objectives are as well as 
their attitude  to risk. I can see from the information provided in Mr Hs application that he 
already had previous general  trading experience, considerable savings and other  
Ref: DRN58561822investments. This would suggest he was financially able to bear any loss that may be 
incurred.
In addition to this he had some  previous  CFD trading experience and another  trading 
account and would have had an understanding of the risks involved. So, I cant see any 
reason why the CFD account  wouldnt be suitable for him. 
Mr H opened his CFD account in 2018  and agreed  to the terms. The information  Ive seen 
suggests that those  terms, began with a standardised and prominent risk warning about 
potential suitability of the account.  In addition, every page of the terms and conditions 
displayed a risk warning asking the consumer to consider  whether  they understand how 
CFDs work and whether they can afford  to take the high risk of losing money.
Overall and on the balance of available evidence, I dont think that Fortrade did anything  
wrong in assessing  the suitability of Mr Hs account. He was able to financially bear the risk 
and had previous  trading experience. He was given  warnings and proceeded with the 
account regardless. I havent seen  any evidence that should  have  prompted  Fortrade  to 
decline his initial application or to withdraw his account, so I dont think  Fortrade needed to 
do anything differently. 
professional client  status
Mr H says he was pressured into applying for a professional client  account and shouldnt 
have been considered a professional  client.  Fortrade say they considered his application in 
July 2018 and in line with clause 4.3.1 of the terms and conditions, they confirmed he would 
remain as a retail client  as he didnt fulfil the criteria set by the FCA to be a professional  
client. 
Fortrade confirmed that they had never changed  Mr Hs account status and he always 
retained his retail client status. So, he was never  considered a professional client  or exposed 
to any additional  risk. In the absence of any evidence to suggest Mr H was pressured into 
applying for the professional client status, I cant say that Fortrade  did anything wrong. 
did Fortrade give advice?
Fortrade operates on an execution only basis. The terms and conditions clause 4.4 say:- 
Fortrade does not offer investment advice.  If the Client is unsure as to the merits or 
suitability of a transaction,  it should  seek advice from an independent financial 
adviser. Fortrade does  not make personal  investment recommendations in relation to 
the Services or the Online Platform. Any information  provided  by or made available 
by Fortrade, including through the Online Platform or any related system or website 
is provided solely to enable clients to make their own investment decisions and 
should not be treated as a recommendation to buy, sell or otherwise deal with any 
particular investment.
Fortrade says they didnt  give Mr H any advice and have given him guidance and information 
on how to trade. I understand the distinction they are trying to draw, and I also understand  
the argument that he nevertheless understood this guidance to be trading advice. The 
regulators guidance in this situation is to distinguish between advice and the provision  of 
information. The difference  is whether the information did or did not carry the force of a 
recommendation. 
Ref: DRN58561823In other  words, is there  evidence that guidance given to Mr H on how to trade extended as 
far as recommending  what  to trade? Having listened  to numerous calls and communications 
between Fortrade and Mr H, I do think they gave  him advice. Fortrade disputes this but I am 
persuaded by the conversation he had with the Fortrade account manager using a third party 
text messaging app. In this conversation  on 12 December 2018, the account manager 
specifically confirmed to him which trade to place. Mr H asks about a trade, ... should I buy? 
If yes, what should  be take profit. The account  manager at Fortrade replies: yes and TP 
1.265 and SL 1.258. In my opinion, this would constitute advice. 
Im also satisfied such advice falls outside  the scope of services  Fortrade  provide. As a 
regulated business it is only permitted to carry out activities which  are regulated.  The terms 
of their business and the rules within which they operate specifically do not allow them  to 
give advice.  Any regulated business which does  give advice on investments is expected to 
ascertain the suitability  of such advice based on key facts, attitude to risk, investment 
objectives which they would have obtained from the consumer. These  are basic  checks that 
any professional  firm would be expected  to do prior to giving advice to any of its clients.  Its 
clear that Fortrade  hasnt  carried out any such checks  in advance so its particularly difficult 
for me to say whether  the advice they gave was in fact suitable.
remedy
Ive considered Mr Hs role in this situation and listened to the calls between  him and 
Fortrade. There are further  instances  in the calls where he is given information on specific 
trades but these calls also demonstrate that he possessed a level of understanding  of the 
trades that where  being discussed.  On several occasions he questions the analysis he was 
being given, at times even offering a different outlook. The fact that he had another trading 
account before he started trading with Fortrade  also suggests he already understood the 
risks involved. This is made clear in the calls between him and the Fortrade account  
manager and the fact that he wanted to continue trading despite the concerns he raises  
here. In the instances where he was given information that may amount to advice on a 
specific trade, Im satisfied that his knowledge and understanding was sufficient  for him to 
still decide independently whether he did indeed want to place that specific trade.
So, I must consider  what I think would  be a fair outcome in this situation. On the one hand, I 
am satisfied  that Fortrade did give Mr H advice and it is their responsibility  as a regulated 
business providing an execution only service, to ensure that they are not giving advice to 
their clients.  In particular, no appropriate  suitability checks were done and as such resulting 
in a loss to Mr H. On the other hand, I appreciate that he understood what  he was doing  and 
did continue to trade with Fortrade even after incurring losses  and ultimately, he remained 
responsible for the trades he placed on his account.
Its particularly difficult for me to unpick each and every trade as Mr H has placed  ninety  
profitable trades and thirty three loss making trades.  Theres limited evidence  available as to 
which trades where made as a result  of advice given and which  trades he placed  himself. It 
is possible that there may have been other trades where Fortrade gave Mr H advice, but I 
have to decide on the evidence I have in my possession.   The  evidence  shows  that on 
12 December 2018, a third party text messaging  app was used to communicate advice to 
him on a trade placed as detailed above.
So, I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Fortrade to pay Mr H any losses  he 
may have  incurred as a result of placing this trade. As mentioned  above,  Ive also 
Ref: DRN58561824considered Mr Hs part in this and on this occasion,  I dont  think  the business needs to pay 
him any interest on the sum he may have lost.
 
responses to provisional  decision
Mr E responded to accept the provisional decision.  
Fortrade responded to say they were disappointed with the provisional decision but accepted 
it. They also said the following:-
-The trade was placed  on 11 December.
-Mr H had continued trading after the complaint  was raised on 12 December 2018 and 
was not in contact  with any support  representatives in this period.
-They believe this demonstrates  the client had traded based on his own decisions.
-They asked the reference to suitability  in the earlier part of the provisional decision 
to be changed  to appropriateness.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the information Fortrade provided  in response to the provisional decision 
and note their overall acceptance of the findings despite the points made above. I dont think  
theyve provided  any new arguments or information that hadnt previously been considered 
so I wont repeat these  points again. I do take on board the point  they make that the 
reference should be to appropriateness  and not suitability. Generally, with execution only 
accounts of this nature, I would be looking at the appropriateness of the account. But here 
the account became more advisory in its nature due to the advice  Mr H was given, so I feel it 
was correct to refer to the relevant test around suitability. 
As there is nothing further for me to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and make the same findings here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Fortrade Limited  and ask them  to compensate  Mr H for the 
losses he may have incurred as result  of the advice  to trade.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5856182