K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained that he was wrongly  advised  by Penvest Limited to move his existing self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) into a model  portfolio with a discretionary  fund manager  
(DFM). In particular he said:
-The adviser, who cold called  him, gave his advice  based on out of date fact finding 
information hed retained from his (the advisers) previous employer.
-He wasnt clear  why the switch  had been recommended  or how much  it would  cost 
him. The DFM  portfolio hasnt performed as expected.
-He was moved to cash  before the transfer, and wanted to know who authorised this.
-The adviser said he would reduce  his ongoing  fee from 1%pa if the funds didnt 
perform, but this hasnt happened. He was no longer  getting  advice.
-Withdrawals from his pension have been  paid as taxable income rather than tax-free, 
causing him a financial loss.
Ill refer to Mr Fs SIPP provider (Standard Life) in this decision as SL and the DFM 
(Standard Life Wealth)  as SLW.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 August 2020. A copy of that decision 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  (Mr F highlighted a typographical error 
where in one place I referred to him instead  of the adviser, which Ive corrected.)
In addition to what hes said previously,  Mr F made  the following comments:
-He would like to have  an idea of the amount  of compensation payable according to 
the methodology I proposed in the provisional  decision.
-Hes extremely  disappointed that hes being  portrayed as dishonest  by Penvest. He 
has his own doubts about the integrity  of the answers provided by the adviser.  The 
adviser never told him his costs would increase under the Penvest plan.
-He asked the adviser to use up his Personal Allowance well before the end of each 
tax year but his reply  during  their meeting on 24 March 2017 was I dont have  time to 
calculate this now as he was going  on holiday   so he suggested  using an old figure.
-The adviser offered  to help him reclaim the tax but never  did, and he can no longer  
do so as he can only go back  so many tax years.
-He disagrees the adviser provided  an ongoing  service. On each occasion he asked 
for information, he was told that SLW  was looking after his investments. Yet the 
adviser was also collecting 1% per year.
-Id said that I wasnt  satisfied he suffered material distress or inconvenience which  
would warrant an additional  award,  but he does feel Penvests actions have affected 
his health.
Penvest made the following comments:
It disagrees that the SIA Fund is a hedge fund. Its a UCITS scheme  authorised in the 
UK for distribution to retail  clients, with a high level of investor protection.
The purpose of the fund is to remove and diversify very specific risks,  often referred 
to as hedging exposure. And to incorporate  additional strategies that may not be 
able to be implemented easily via third party funds. 
The target market for the fund is investors who had invested through  SLW, and is an 
integral part of their Target Return portfolios for volatility  management.  
SLW  was allowed to consider all of the other holdings within the Target  Return 
portfolio when setting  positions in the SIA fund. So it cant  be considered in isolation.
Mr F specifically wished for this type of managed solution  investment.
Ref: DRN50280472The high percentage holding of the Target  Return portfolios in the SIA fund is 
necessary to fulfil its role as a completion fund, as many  of the positions held are 
taking the opposite exposure  of risk positions  elsewhere within  the portfolio.
The amount  held within the SIA fund was also consistent with the illustrations 
provided to Mr F before he became a client for this to be a medium low risk portfolio.
The portfolio  had a target/benchmark of LIBOR  + 3%, so it was never expected to 
perform in line with the composite  of market  indices Ive suggested for compensating 
Mr F. The given  volatility  parameters for the portfolio werent breached. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Penvests point of view that it feels Mr F at least  to some  extent drove  the 
recommendation to invest with SLW  and use the SIA fund, because he was unhappy with 
the growth hed obtained  in more traditional investments. And I accept that Mr F was placing 
high demands  on the portfolio because he sought  to withdraw more income than the SLW  
manager suggested the growth in the portfolio could accommodate.
I have some sympathy with Penvests position  as I think  it would have been  difficult to satisfy  
all of Mr Fs requirements. Essentially,  in order to sustain the level of income he desired 
without depleting  his portfolio, he needed  to take a fair amount of risk. Mr F wasnt  happy  
with the potential downside this could  have if the markets didnt perform as expected.  But 
this is essentially why I dont think the SLW portfolio solved that problem. It still couldnt 
guarantee Mr F wouldnt be exposed to risk, albeit of a different nature, due to the interplay 
between the different positions taken in the SIA fund compared with the rest of his portfolio.
I said that the SIA fund was essentially a type of hedge fund. By that I meant that it 
employed hedging strategies  nothing more than that. I certainly wasnt  implying it was in 
lightly regulated  or unsuitable for the right sort of retail investor. Whether the fund is right for 
Mr F or another investor is a question of suitability just as it is with any funds an adviser 
recommends  although I also agree  with Penvest  that the SIA fund could only be included 
as an integral part of SLWs Target Return  portfolio.
So what  Im considering is whether the whole  Target Return portfolio was suitable for Mr F; 
not just the SIA fund. Thats because,  as Ive explained previously, SLW was very open 
about the approach it was going to take with Mr Fs investments. That made  it easy  for 
Penvests adviser  to do the appropriate due diligence,  which he needed  to do in order to 
recommend this DFM solution  as suitable to meet Mr Fs risk appetite and income  needs.
I appreciate that the exposure  to the SLW fund was high because it mirrored many  of the 
positions SLW took in the rest of the portfolio. But I dont consider that adequately addresses 
the observations  I was making in my provisional decision that, whilst SLW took the view that 
the hedging of long and short  positions  reduced  Mr Fs net exposure to shares in the 
portfolio to 12%, it was possible to take a contrary view.
SLW would be adopting  targeted strategies that focused Mr Fs investments into particular 
sectors and global regions. So even though SLW  considered  these investments were  
hedged against each other, there  was a lot more in my view riding on SLWs  judgements  
proving to be correct  than there would be in a more conventional diversified  portfolio  where  a 
combination of different fund managers judgements helped to spread the risk. 
Ref: DRN50280473That doesnt  mean such hedging strategies would be inappropriate providing the more  
unusual risks they involved and what was in effect a limit to the resulting growth that could 
be achieved were clearly understood by the investor. And Im not satisfied Mr F was such an 
investor. 
The lack of tolerance Mr F had already displayed to falls in his conventional portfolio  even 
if that was mainly as a result of the income  he was taking  doesnt  suggest to me that he 
had the temperament for the added complexity of the Target Return portfolio. Mr F had 
substantial funds but he doesnt strike me as an overly sophisticated investor needing the 
relatively unusual  solution SLW would provide. 
I think Mr F would have  been expecting to benefit from an upturn in the market, not having 
appreciated that if that happened  in the SLW portfolio this would be offset by falls in the 
hedged assets. So in that situation he could lose out versus a conventional portfolio. Whilst 
no-one could predict when and by how much markets might  rise, its generally expected that 
they do in the longer term. I think its also arguable that given the impact  of charges on the 
growth in Mr Fs portfolio, Penvest should have considered  whether  the hedging strategy 
would leave him materially better off than if he just invested in low risk assets (without  the 
added complexity  of hedging).
The former regulator (FSA)s Finalised  guidance  - Assessing  suitability: Replacement 
business and centralised investment propositions [CIPs] in July 20121 highlighted the poor 
practice example  of advisers recommending DFM portfolios with significant exposure to 
non-traditional investments, which it defined as:
a broad expression for investments where  the investor cannot readily  understand what  will 
drive the returns or where the returns are not easily deduced, for example, by reference to a 
benchmark. This may include, for example, traded life policy investments, hedge funds  and other 
funds where  shorting is involved to a significant extent.
The FSA was concerned  that advisers werent considering  the clients  experience  and likely 
level of understanding of such  investments, saying:
A firm must have a reasonable basis for believing that its clients have the necessary  knowledge 
and experience to understand the nature of the risks of the underlying investments held in the 
CIP. The firm should explain these risks to its clients in a way that they are likely to understand.  
This is particularly important where  the CIP uses non-traditional investments.  
I appreciate Penvest will consider that it was primarily SLWs role to explain  how the portfolio 
worked, but its adviser was recommending that portfolio (and the mandate Mr F would give 
SLW to manage it) as being suitable  for him under COBS 9.2.2. So I think Mr Fs ability  to 
take in and understand the approach  SLW would be taking, was something for Penvest to 
consider before deciding it was appropriate for him to invest  in the Target Return portfolio. 
Mr Fs assets,  when invested  conventionally,  hadnt been able to sustain his income  level 
(which was already  quite  demanding) in recent market conditions. At some point those 
market conditions, which tend to be cyclical, were likely to improve.  And in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  Penvest  did enough to ensure  Mr F appreciated the 
limited potential the SLW portfolio gave him, over the long term, to achieve the growth that 
was effectively being dictated by his income need.  There were obviously no guarantees that 
a conventional portfolio would do better, but the same could be said of the SLW portfolio (as 
appears to have turned out to be the case). 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg12-16.pdf
Ref: DRN50280474Crucially, of the two, I think  a conventional  portfolio was a better  fit with Mr Fs combination 
of knowledge  and experience, and attitude to risk. This is not a comment about the SLW 
approach overall,  as for an investor with a different combination  of circumstances I might not 
have reached the same  conclusion. But it is a judgement Ive made (and am required to 
make) on the suitability of Penvests particular recommendation to use SLW in this case.  
Penvest has asked why Im requiring Mr F to be compensated by reference  to an index that 
could be more volatile  than the LIBOR+3%  targeted by his portfolio. Thats  precisely 
because I dont think he should have been  recommended to invest  in the portfolio targeting 
that return or expected to understand how it did that. And over the long term I couldnt fairly 
say it was less capable of delivering the returns he needed to provide him with the income 
he sought. So Im satisfied its fair for compensation to be based on the fluctuating  return  a 
more conventional portfolio would have produced, whether its more or less than the steadier 
return Penvest argues  the Target Return portfolio would have achieved.
To address Mr Fs point about how much  compensation this calculation will produce, Im 
sorry to disappoint  him but the Financial  Ombudsman Service  doesnt  have the resources to 
carry out these calculations for businesses. We reach findings  on what  we think  the 
consumer would have  done but for the business advice,  which  dont depend on whether that 
has caused an overall loss when measured  up to the point of calculation.  
If Mr F accepts this decision  my award then requires Penvest to provide  details  of the 
calculation to him in a clear, simple format  which means showing him where  it has 
obtained the figures required. And then Penvest must pay whatever the amount resulting 
from that calculation  is (subject to the limit on the amount which is binding on Penvest of 
£150,000). I understand Penvest is preparing to do that calculation and has asked for 
authority from Mr F to do this, which  Ive said he should provide if he wishes to accept this 
decision.
I understand Mr F feels strongly  that hes been poorly served by the Penvest adviser.  I agree 
to the extent that the recommendation to invest with SLW particularly was unsuitable. But in 
view of the level of complexity involved in the recommendation he did make, its 
understandable that the adviser had to revert  to SLW when Mr F had questions. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that the 1%pa  ongoing charge was collected instead  of 
a one-off fee for recommending Mr F switch his pension  (which in my experience would have  
been at least 3%). So given the relatively  short time Mr F was with Penvest, I still dont think 
its appropriate for those  charges to be refunded  particularly when even  a recommendation 
for a conventional DFM  portfolio (that I consider would be suitable  here)  would have incurred 
the advisers initial costs  and require ongoing monitoring for which he was entitled to charge.
 
The meeting  Mr F mentions on 24 March is in my view already quite close  to the end of the 
tax year,  given that it would likely have been possible  to predict Mr Fs tax liability  further in 
advance. If they run out of time that would reasonably have factored into how much  notice  it 
was prudent to give the adviser on subsequent  occasions, but I note the problem seems  to 
have occurred several times. On the evidence  Mr F has provided, I cant  safely  say this is 
only the fault of the adviser who is, after all, entitled  to take holiday  and I referred in my 
provisional decision to the likelihood that Mr F could claim back any overpaid tax.
Mr F says the adviser promised to do this but then didnt. However his relationship with the 
adviser broke down  well before time would have run out for Mr F to do this himself.  There 
was still an onus on Mr F to mitigate his loss, and I think I would be doing  him a disservice 
not to credit  him with the ability to look into this matter with HMRC and if necessary  ask his 
new adviser to assist him. 
Ref: DRN50280475I cant be sure how much  happier Mr F would have been with Penvest had his portfolio 
tracked conventional  markets more closely, because these  would have gone down as well 
as up. He may still have become dissatisfied with the adviser as he did with his previous 
one. Ultimately Mr F voted with his feet and returned to the previous adviser. So I still 
consider that requiring Penvest to refund him the (higher) cost of further  advice he needed to 
move his portfolio  back is a better  way of reflecting the problems Penvest caused him, than 
the adjudicators  proposed payment for distress or inconvenience. 
Im sensitive to Mr Fs belief that his episode of investing with Penvest worsened his health, 
and Ive looked at the evidence hes provided. Hes entitled to feel that one contributed  to the 
other, but its difficult for me to objectively make that link. I dont dispute that its been a 
difficult time for Mr F, but Im mindful  of the evidence there is that when he met the adviser 
he was looking to do something different with his portfolio. Ultimately the wrong solution was 
recommended but Im satisfied the compensation I set out in my provisional decision is a fair 
and reasonable way to put things  right.  
my final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and require  Penvest  Limited  to calculate and pay compensation as 
set out in the fair compensation section of the attached provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50280476Provisional decision of 26 August  2020
background
Before he dealt with Penvest,  Mr F had remained a client of the Penvest advisers previous 
firm after the adviser  had left that firm. Initially, it seems the adviser had become authorised 
to give advice at Penvest  and was also exploring opportunities with a different firm of 
advisers (firm B).
Mr F was aged 67 and already had an existing SL Wrap SIPP  (containing a SIPP and a cash  
account). His risk profile  was low to medium. He was already retired  and drawing £2,000pm 
of the tax-free  cash from his SIPP  as an income, although I can see from the SIPP history 
that occasionally additional payments of potentially taxable income were withdrawn, on top 
of this £2,000pm  tax-free cash.
At an initial meeting  in November 2015, the adviser  noted that Mr F was very unhappy with 
the service and advice  he was receiving from the previous  firm. His portfolio had dropped 
from £700,000  to £670,000 due to what he felt was a lack of active management and delays 
in making changes. A further  note recorded that Mr F didnt like the fact the portfolio 
fluctuated so much in value and felt very nervous when the markets were falling. 
Some fact-finding appears to have been  done by the adviser at this time  reference is made 
in notes to Mr F holding a lot of assets  in cash,  as he wanted  security, particularly in view of 
a pending house move. Penvest cant locate its own fact find document but the adviser  
completed one for SLW showing that Mr F received  income  of £800pm plus £2,000pm  from 
pension drawdown,  and had £340,000 in the bank  but no mortgage or other  investments. 
His requirement was to achieve  an income  of £2,000  net per month  from his pension with 
the underlying  capital  being as safe as possible:
I asked [Mr F] if he would be happy  if we could  find an investment solution that looked to 
achieve the growth required to provide his desired (£24k tax free income per annum) whilst 
trying to maintain  the capital value with as little investment risk as possible. [Mr F] thought 
this sounded like an ideal solution. I told [Mr F] I had done a lot of work with Standard  Life 
Wealth Management (SLW), the Discretionary arm of Standard Life Investments
Penvest invited SLW to make proposals to meet Mr Fs objectives.  SLWs comparison on 
23 November 2015 was based  on his existing portfolio charging 2%pa   this appears to 
include a 1%pa ongoing advice fee payable to the advisers previous firm. SLWs proposal 
would cost 1.6%pa (covering fund management  and DFM charges) plus 1%pa for ongoing 
advice, which it said was payable to Firm B. I understand that shortly  after this point the 
adviser stopped  working for Firm B and the proposal  ultimately  proceeded with Penvest.
SLW explained that we  invest a proportion of your portfolio in the Strategic Investment 
Allocation Fund (SIA Fund), provided by Standard Life Investments. When we combine the 
SIA Fund with other funds in your portfolio  this aims  to reduce the overall  volatility of the 
portfolio. This helps  to smooth investment  returns regardless of the direction of markets  and 
economic conditions The fund uses derivative positions to make  uncorrelated investments 
and hedge certain underlying risks within the portfolios. These  strategies  are usually only 
available to institutional  investors.
A sample  asset  allocation showed  about  one-third of Mr Fs portfolio (£222,000) being 
invested in the SIA fund, followed by 43% in shares, 14% in bonds and 10% in cash. Also 
Ref: DRN50280477included was a factsheet for the fund setting out the managers  top five then-current 
strategies which  were:
(i)investing in European Equity in the expectation of a rebound  in prices
(ii)US Equity: taking  a long position  in tech stock vs short-selling small companies
(iii)currency: a long position on Mexican  Peso vs short on Australian Dollar
(iv)US Interest Rate swaps
(v)currency: a long position on Sterling vs short on Swiss Franc
Penvest passed  these  proposals on to Mr F in a suitability letter on 1 December 2015, which 
Mr F says he didnt  receive. The proposal  Mr F appears to have proceeded with was to 
provide a gross income of £20,000  pa whilst  looking to preserve the capital as much as 
possible. This would  involve  taking  a medium to low risk according  to SLW (as Mr F was 
assessed by Penvest  to be) and targeted  a return of LIBOR + 3%. £20,000pa  was the most 
income SLW  felt it could  provide  at this level of risk whilst preserving the capital   but its 
evident that Mr F still intended to withdraw  £24,000pa, as he went on to do in addition to 
taking some other small payments as set out below.
The adviser had referred  to Mr Fs higher income  requirement and on that basis suggested 
Mr F opt for an alternative SLW  proposal  with a greater (medium) risk. A file note from 18 
December 2015  sets out Mr Fs concerns  about his low-medium risk rating  whilst he felt 
this was about right, he also felt the older he was getting, the less inclined he felt to take 
any risk. Given  that taking no risk at all would  just lead to an erosion of capital, the adviser 
said the important  thing was to strike the correct balance.
The adviser said in this letter he would waive Penvests normal 3% implementation fee, but 
would charge the 1%pa ongoing fee which the previous firm had been taking. He added,  If 
however at any stage  you are not happy  with the service/support you are receiving you are 
free to cancel this agreement anytime  without  any penalties being imposed. According  to 
the advisers meeting notes, this was in response to a request  from Mr F to consider 
reducing his fee from the outset, which the adviser wasnt  prepared  to agree to.
Given his attitude  to risk, the adviser recorded in his December 2015 file note that Mr Fs 
existing portfolio was slightly on the higher side of balanced in risk - given the 68% equity 
exposure it had. Mr F agreed to move his funds  under SLWs control because,  as noted by 
the adviser, he liked the concept of the portfolio being risk managed  in this way andhis  
main aim was to ensure  the capital was eroded  as little as possible whilst providing the 
required level of income. Mr F appointed Penvest  as his new adviser  on 18 December 2015 
and proceeded  with the medium to low risk proposal (LIBOR + 3%)
In a phone  call on 5 January 2016  Mr F was concerned about the portfolio (with 68% equity 
exposure) continuing to fall in value. The adviser  noted saying  that if Mr F was worried  they 
could move the money into cash until the SLW account had been  set up. The advisers PA 
confirmed with Mr F that he only wished to switch to cash if the value was above £680,000. 
As it was around £681,000 on that day, Mr F agreed  to switch to cash.
Penvest instructed a phased drawdown of £12,000  tax-free cash  over the phone,  to be 
transferred to the Wrap  cash account to meet the next six months  withdrawals. Similar 
instructions were later given in July 2016,  January and April 2017. However it also appears 
that in both March  2016  and 2017, Mr F asked for an additional £1,800  of (potentially) 
taxable income from the SIPP.  In March 2016 he complained to Penvest about an 
unexpected small  tax charge. Im not aware if the March 2017 payment was similarly  
affected.
Ref: DRN50280478Penvest was aware Mr Fs SLW  portfolio wasnt performing  as well as hoped   it invited 
SLW to make some  comments  which it forwarded  to Mr F on 3 May: It has always been  our 
approach to position our portfolios for the long termThe market has responded very 
aggressively to short  term news flow that has been  interpreted as indicating  global 
recession. We do not buy in to this outcome and sentiment Is beginning to align with our 
core outcome.

To achieve a more  neutral  performance  would have involved  having  minimal equity 
exposure, substantially  more fixed  income  (including  sovereign debt) and gold.  Yet, our 
purpose is to achieve a return  in excess of cash over a 3 year window, and we see little 
appeal in sovereign debt and/or gold over such a time period.
Following the unexpected  Brexit outcome in June 2016  Mr F forwarded further SLW 
commentary to Mr F, as it had previously done in February 2016. On 9 August Mr F 
commented that his latest SLW  statement was very  depressing and that he couldnt see 
any improvement at all since switching to SLW: The FTSE has recovered quite a lot of 
ground since Brexit and this keeps passing  me by. Unless  my fund has improved since  the 
last statement I really  feel we need to seriously review the situation asap.
Penvests response  was again to ask SLW  to comment: It has been  a difficult  period for 
target return strategies,  particularly vs more traditional asset classes  which have  seen an 
unlikely boom since  the referendum The reason for the underperformance comes down to 
the fact that our portfolio  is highly diversified across asset classes with only about  12% 
exposed to equitiesUK equities  look precariously expensive; the need to be diversified in 
other areas is therefore crucial.In short, what worked well for investors over the past 6 - 12 
months are unlikely to be the top performers going forward and so the risks,  particularly for 
conventional low-risk investors  would appear to be skewed  to the downside.
As Mr F remained  dissatisfied a meeting was planned  with SLW  but Mr F was taken ill 
before it could take place. In preparation  SLW  had sent some slides  to Penvest. It agreed 
that Mr Fs portfolio was down -1.50% vs the LIBOR + 3% benchmark  of +3.10%. It referred 
to the positions in futures being  taken in the SIA fund to dynamically and efficiently add 
(speculate) or decrease (hedge) equity exposure from the portfolio, and explained the long-
term logic behind some of the short  and long positions SLW had taken. It said that as the 
SIA fund complemented the other assets in the portfolio  to reduce overall volatility,  if other 
assets in the portfolio were performing well, this fund may not produce a positive return  
and in isolation this fund may be more  volatile than the other assets it complemented.
SLWs subsequent end-September 2016 quarterly  investment report  confirmed there had 
been static growth  for that quarter. It showed  that of Mr Fs portfolio of £617,000 (in June 
2016), 34% was still in volatility mgt (meaning £216,500  in the SIA fund), 16% in bonds and 
the remainder in shares. SLW explained  in this report that almost half of its strategies had 
some explicit  US-related element to them because the US accounted for about 50% of world 
equity market capitalisation, and its US exposure  was used as a proxy  for global exposure.  
SLW said it was taking new long/short positions within the SIA fund to adapt its strategy.
When Mr Fs health recovered, he met the adviser  only in March 2017. Evidently the adviser 
was willing  to prepare an alternative  to SLW  at a further meeting on 5 May but, referring to 
the lack of further growth, Mr F announced  that he was returning  to the advisers  previous 
firm for advice.  On 16 August 2017 this firm switched Mr F back  out of DFM.  I can see from 
the payment history  that it took over the 1%pa ongoing  fee but also made  a one-off charge 
of £1,000 from the SIPP to move Mr Fs portfolio.
Ref: DRN50280479Mr F complained to Penvest, arguing  that two of the meetings at which its advice was 
alleged to have  been given (on 20 November 2015 and 4 February 2016) didnt take place,  
nor did he receive a suitability report. He thought he had been  misled by the adviser that 
firm B was part of the Penvest group of companies. He said that he had never been made 
aware of the charges, and wouldnt have  gone ahead if he had been.
In its final response lettter  Penvest didnt uphold the complaint:
It explained why the switch had been  recommended.
It didnt find evidence  that the adviser was using information  from his previous firm. 
Mr F had in fact asked the adviser  to remain  in touch  when  he left that firm.
Text messages continued to be exchanged and Mr F had agreed to switch again.
The 1%pa  ongoing fee was levied instead  of an initial charge, and it didnt agree that 
the adviser had failed  to provide an ongoing service  in return  for this. 
Some income payments were  taxed as a result of the coding HMRC gave SL to use. 
Tax that wasnt due could be claimed  back from HMRC.
The funds held in Mr Fs previous plan were moved into cash by 13 January 2016 as 
he didnt wish to lose any further  money  while they were transferred.
The portfolio  suffered  a loss during the first 20 days, but then performed as expected.
It didnt achieve  the growth  Mr F had expected as a result  of having a lower weighting 
in UK equities (which  rebounded following the Brexit vote).
SLW  was ultimately responsible for its selection  of investments.
You state in your letter  that the fees have increased, please can you let me know  
why you feel this is the case?
The letter erroneously referred to the advisers previous firm as A J Bell.
Mr F remained dissatisfied and referred  the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service: 
-Penvest told us that it believed Mr F was fully aware that to enable him to take an 
income of £24,000pa and retain the same fund value or increase the fund value, he 
would need to take some risk with the investment.  
-Mr F told us that before moving to Penvest the cost of his pension ignoring  ongoing 
adviser fees was 1.1% (0.84% for the investments  and 0.26% for SL). But under  
SLW Mr F says the figure ignoring  ongoing  fees rose to 1.675% (0.7%  for the 
investments, varying to a degree  depending on the funds, and 0.975% for DFM).
One of our adjudicators upheld Mr Fs complaint, it seems in direct response to the 
statement Ive quoted from Penvests final response above  as it was clear  that SLW had 
higher overall  charges than Mr F had experienced previously. He thought  that, with the size 
of the fund and the income  that was being  drawn,  a report  showing a critical yield should 
have been prepared showing Mr F what growth  rate the SIPP  in DFM would need to achieve 
to sustain his income of £2,000pm. 
The adjudicator felt that switching between existing advisory funds within the SIPPs  range 
was totally discounted  in favour  of DFM, and the adviser hadnt explained the risk profile  of     
Mr Fs previous investments against the proposed DFM portfolio. He considered the 
complaint should  be resolved by comparing the actual SIPPs performance to the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index, between the date of transfer and the date the 
advisers previous  firm was reappointed to the SIPP. Penvest was also to pay Mr F £300 for 
the upset caused.
In response Mr F confirmed that he did receive  a proposal dated 23 November 2015 and 
believed this was from Firm B  because the document refers to firm B. (This is actually the 
SLW investment proposal which Penvest says was later attached to its 1 December 2015  
Ref: DRN502804710suitability letter.) Mr F referred to the comparison of charges in this document before and 
after SLWs involvement. He wanted  the higher charges caused  by the DFM  arrangement to 
be refunded, plus Penvests 1%pa  adviser  charge.
Penvest disagreed with the adjudicator. It referred to the suitability letter which  explained the 
reasons for transferring  and thus justified the costs set out in the letter and the 
accompanying SLW report. As a new SIPP wasnt being set up, there were no new product  
illustrations. It said Mr Fs stated aims were to control  the risk and minimise volatility, which  
the DFM arrangement achieved. Mr F had asked for this advice as he was uncomfortable 
with the previous loss of capital and wanted a less risky investment proposition.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to an ombudsman  to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr F has made a number of complaint 
points, Ive grouped  them  together under the headings below.
Acquisition of Mr F as a client
Mr F ultimately accepted  Penvests proposition to transfer his funds to SLWs management. 
Although he says he was cold-called and felt badgered to do so, I find it unlikely  taking into 
account his former occupation he would have felt pressured to the extent he suggests. The 
adviser made file notes  to the effect  that Mr F felt a greater affinity with him than his 
replacements at the former firm. Although Im mindful the advisers notes would also reflect 
his self-confidence  to some degree  I do find this to be a plausible reason for why Mr F 
ultimately decided  to transfer the agency over to Penvest. 
I also havent found evidence that the adviser  had taken documents with him from his former 
employer. Another,  at least equally plausible, explanation is that he was already familiar  with 
Mr F and could  remember information about  his circumstances. Given that Mr Fs SIPP was 
already established and in drawdown,  the further investigation into his circumstances  to 
establish whether  he might benefit  from DFM wouldnt have been as onerous.  In fact, a lot of 
the context for the move to DFM  seems  to have come from Mr Fs personal feelings  about 
his investments which the adviser  made extensive  notes of at the time. For example, his 
reactions to market  losses and his concerns about risk whilst wanting to take an income  and 
preserve his capital  wherever possible.
The text messages Penvest has provided copies  of were of a friendly nature. Given  the 
previous business  relationship Mr F had with the adviser, it would be difficult to regard this 
as a cold call and Im more persuaded by Penvests assertions that Mr F had in fact 
expressed an interest in keeping in touch with the adviser. Ultimately,  whether or not Mr F 
thinks that the adviser was pushy, the matter for me to determine is whether or not his 
advice was suitable. If the adviser was over-eager  to make a sale that was in fact unsuitable 
for Mr F and has caused him loss, I can look to put this right.
Whether the meetings, letters etc were genuine
Mr F specifically disputes that two meetings  took place, on 20 November 2015  and 
4 February 2016.  These come from notes  of meetings Penvest has referred to. Im aware 
that Mr F has received  the other meeting  notes  with Penvests final response, so I take it that 
he isnt disputing that other meetings  took place. The notes made on the disputed dates 
Ref: DRN502804711provide the rationale, in my view, for why Mr F agreed to go ahead with DFM. That being the 
case, I think its most likely that the comments on those two dates either reflected a recent 
meeting or perhaps telephone call, and were incorrectly  captioned.
The regulator requires  a suitability letter to be issued as a record of advice that in most 
cases has already been  given verbally. So if Mr F didnt receive the suitability letter, I still 
consider it reflects  the discussions  which likely took place. In any event,  much  of Penvests 
advice was based on the SLW proposal to manage Mr Fs funds, which it appears was 
attached to that letter and Mr F did receive. I note Mr F agrees that the proposal itself set out 
that the DFM arrangement would be more expensive. In my view its reasonable to conclude 
that Mr F agreed to move into the DFM arrangement for the potential  benefit of having  his 
assets managed  directly  by SLW. It would be fair to expect that a DFM was likely to achieve 
sufficient additional  performance to outweigh  this cost, as thats the basis  on which a 
consumer would reasonably be prepared to switch.
This proposal document  was from SLW,  not firm B. Whilst it did mention  that Mr F was a 
client of firm B, Penvest  has made  no secret of the fact that Mr F was exploring opportunities 
with two firms at that time. Ultimately he took Mr F on as a client  through Penvest and I dont 
think Mr F was in any doubt of that. So even if he was led to believe that firm B was affiliated 
in some way with Penvest, Im able to consider his complaint against Penvest directly  and 
Im not persuaded that this itself has caused any loss or material upset. Similarly when 
Penvest referred  to A J Bell in its final response letter, I think it should have been apparent 
that this was a mistaken reference to the previous firm of a similar name.
Who instructed the switch into cash before the funds were  moved  into DFM?
Penvests meeting/phone notes confirm two conversations on 5 January 2016 when this was 
discussed  one with the adviser, and another with the advisers PA. The notes of these 
discussions are plausible  and persuasive, given that Mr F had already been told his existing 
portfolio was somewhat overexposed to equities for a medium to low risk. Whilst theres  
evidence the adviser  was suggesting Mr F might need to take more  of a medium risk in order  
to preserve his capital, the nature of Mr Fs concerns and actions (in not proceeding at that 
level of risk) suggest that he was uncomfortable with market losses.  
I dont consider it was inappropriate  in these circumstances for the adviser to offer the option 
of switching to cash. Although Mr F would then be out of the markets and wouldnt benefit 
from any upturn, it seems to me that Mr F understood  this  having  seen  his fund drop from 
£700,000 to £670,000  he asked the advisers  PA to set a floor of £680,000 which  his funds 
had to be worth before  he was willing to switch into cash. With hindsight this may have  
proven to be the wrong decision,  but no-one  could predict short-term  market movements.
As Mr F had completed a letter of authority for Penvest to take over as his adviser, it had his 
authority to make the switch as per its own notes of the discussion. SLs internal notes 
record that Penvest  requested a full sell-down of the value of Mr Fs SIPP (meaning, it all 
moved to cash) with a final settlement date of 13 January. Two days  later Penvest instructed 
SL to move about £648,000 of the proceeds (leaving some cash to meet ongoing  costs)  to 
SLWs management  so the remaining time in cash was spent waiting for that to happen.
Was Penvest at fault for Mr Fs income  payment(s) being taxed?
Further sums of £1,800  were taken as taxable  income rather than tax-free  cash in each of 
the 2015 and 2016 tax years  Im assuming because  Mr F hadnt completely used up his 
personal allowance and was expecting these  not to be taxed. However  that would be 
Ref: DRN502804712dependent on what tax code SL had been  given by HMRC to apply to the payments. In my 
view this wasnt a matter  within Penvests control. 
I further note that Mr Fs SIPP transaction history has each  year had at least one entry 
suggesting there has been  a tax reclaim. However if Mr F doesnt  consider hes received all 
the tax back that hes due on these  payments, this is a matter he can address directly  with 
SL and/or HMRC.
Was the advice  to use DFM suitable?
The regulator issued  a report in December 2008 entitled quality of advice on pension 
switching. It summarised the findings  of its thematic  review  of pension  switching  advice and 
gave examples of good, compliant and poor practices it found on the quality of advice given 
since 2006. It noted the following as examples  of what it considered unsuitable advice:
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (including where the 
reason was fund performance, but there was no evidence  the new scheme  was likely 
to be better).
A more expensive pension (including  to consolidate different pension schemes),  but 
where the extra cost was not explained  or justified  to the customer.
The adjudicator said he hadnt seen sufficient  justification  for the extra product costs, but I 
dont necessarily agree as will be apparent from the comments  Ive already made about  
costs above. The first thing to note is that this wasnt strictly a pension switch:  Mr F remained 
with his existing  provider. The switch also didnt result in extra  charges going  to Penvest that 
Mr F wasnt already paying  in ongoing  charges to the previous firm (eg an initial fee). 
Penvest is right to note that it wasnt actually required to obtain illustrations and analyse the 
impact on projected values by entering  into DFM. Its self-evident that, all things being equal, 
Mr F would end up with a lower projected fund in future under a DFM arrangement  
because the overall  charges were higher. But the key issue is whether its fair to say all 
things were equal here, because DFM was a fundamentally different proposition.
Mr Fs existing portfolio was being managed, I assume, by the previous  firm in return  for the 
1%pa ongoing  fee. I can see that firm held the regulatory permission of managing 
investments  i.e. it was able to carry out DFM  directly for Mr F if thats  what  had been 
agreed. Yet theres evidence that Mr F was dissatisfied with the falls in his portfolio. I can 
see the adjudicators  argument that these  falls might simply have been  because of the funds 
and/or risk selected,  and that might  have been rectified by selecting  different funds. But for 
whatever reason the previous firm hadnt been able to rectify  things  to Mr Fs satisfaction.  
Mr F also had an income requirement  which meant that he was, any case,  likely  to benefit 
from regular active management of the portfolio  so that the income  level could be 
maintained without depleting  too much of the capital. Whilst it seems  that the previous firm 
was able to (and may well have been) doing this, that doesnt mean it was wrong for Penvest 
to suggest an alternative  if Mr F wasnt satisfied  with it. 
So I dont  think the adjudicator was right to dismiss the option of an external DFM simply 
because it was more  expensive, without considering the potential benefits. Arguably  the 
extra 0.6%pa SLW or another DFM might charge might pay for itself, as a result of more 
proactive management  achieving  more  consistent returns  in all market conditions.  This of 
course couldnt be guaranteed, but in my view Mr F was prepared to pay an additional 
charge in the hope that the new manager  would succeed where the previous firm didnt.
Ref: DRN502804713He certainly had a sufficient fund size (approaching £700,000) to warrant  the added 
diversification and rebalancing that could be achieved using a DFM. Although  an external 
DFM was more expensive  than his existing arrangement,  it gave  the potential  for Mr Fs 
funds to be better managed to meet his income needs without excessively depleting the 
capital  because  Mr F wasnt prepared to take the higher risks which  might  have made  this 
easier.
Mr F says that he wasnt informed of the charges, but SLWs  estimate  of the increase in 
charges (which he admits  receiving) was reasonably accurate: it meant hed be paying  an 
extra 0.6%pa, as it was also clear Penvest would continue to take 1%pa. The income  he 
ideally wanted  to withdraw  from his pension without eating into the capital (£24,000pa,  which  
he proceeded to take)  amounted to 3.5%pa of a fund of say, £680,000. I think its 
reasonable to say that total charges  of 2.6%pa in addition would likely eat into the capital. 
Penvest wasnt strictly  required to illustrate  a critical yield  to maintain Mr Fs level of 
income, as this wasnt a fresh sale of a drawdown  arrangement. But I can see that both it 
and SLW  did warn Mr F of the potential depletion  of his fund due to the higher than ideal 
income level he wanted to take at the level of risk he preferred.  And SLW suggested that 
only withdrawals of £20,000pa  were  sustainable.
Theres evidence the adviser and Mr F discussed his reluctance  to take the higher level of 
risk necessary to achieve £24,000pa. As there  was no way for Mr F to have everything he 
wanted it seems he was more inclined to accept  some depletion of his capital than to take 
more risk. I say this particularly as additional withdrawals of £1,800 were taken at the end of 
each tax year, which were  also likely  to deplete the capital. I think some  depletion  of capital 
would have been likely had Mr F stayed in the former arrangement  and withdrew £25,800pa 
too. 
Given that Mr F had significant funds  requiring  management, it wouldnt have  been  
inappropriate in my view to seek out a DFM that would  manage those funds to a low-medium 
attitude to risk; at a reasonable cost in relation to the added performance  that could 
potentially bring  to the portfolio. The question I must  now address is whether SLWs 
particular proposition, given what the adviser  was told about  it, was appropriate for Mr Fs 
circumstances including  that attitude  to risk.
Was the particular  selection of the SLW low-medium risk DFM  portfolio suitable?
Under the regulators Conduct of Business (COBS) rules  at 9.2.2 Penvest needed to ensure 
that its recommendation (which included any recommendation to use DFM) met Mr Fs 
objectives, that he was able to bear any related investment risk and he understood the risks 
involved in the transaction.  Penvest also had an overarching responsibility at COBS 2.1.1 to 
act in Mr Fs best interests.
In order to comply with these rules,  Penvests responsibility to Mr F didnt end the moment it 
informed SLW that Mr F wanted a DFM portfolio with a low-medium risk profile. It was 
reasonably expected to obtain details of how SLW  would typically invest  a client  with that 
risk profile - and broadly  assess, allowing for the fact that investments could vary at SLWs 
discretion, whether this investment mandate met Mr Fs risk profile and objectives. Indeed 
that was why SLW provided detailed information  on how it would invest  the funds, so that 
Mr F and Penvest could  decide if the approach was appropriate for him.
Ref: DRN502804714In my view an adviser acting with reasonable care and skill for a low-medium  risk investor 
looking to preserve their capital wouldnt expect to put the majority of their investments into 
the highest risk assets such as shares. I would expect more of a balance between  shares 
and assets typically  uncorrelated to these  such as bonds and cash, with smaller amounts  in 
property and other alternatives. However  in this case SLW was very open about the fact that 
it took a different approach involving putting one third of Mr Fs investment into what  is 
essentially a type of hedge fund (the SIA fund).
This meant that rather  than taking the conventional  market risks of investing  in long 
positions in shares  or bonds, about £220,000 of Mr Fs money was subject to a series of 
hedging strategies  based  on SLWs  predictions of global  macroeconomic  conditions. A 
significant amount  of the SIA fund was also invested in shares, but the updates SLW 
provided during  2016 suggest it took the view that as these  long and short positions were 
hedged against one another, Mr Fs net exposure  to shares in the portfolio was 12% rather  
than 43%.
SLW was clearly confident in its investment philosophy, and from what I can see it did 
manage Mr Fs portfolio  in line with that philosophy.  But in my view Penvest should  have 
been mindful that the risk was only managed,  and volatility lowered, to the extent that SLWs 
predictions largely turned out to be correct. If SLWs judgements were proven with hindsight 
to have been wrong, or mis-timed,  Mr F would be exposed to not only all of the equity, 
interest rate and currency risk in the SIA fund  but also in the rest of his portfolio.  So he 
might stand to lose more in this type of portfolio than a conventional one investing in the 
typical assets Ive set out above.
When Mr F discussed  his situation with Penvest  he was clearly  already uncomfortable  with 
the market falls he experienced in equities.  Im not therefore satisfied he had the risk 
appetite to invest £220,000 of his pension in hedging strategies that were heavily dependent 
on SLWs economic  predictions, in addition to a fairly high (43%) share holding. 
Whilst SLW  considered this proposition  to be low-medium risk, that doesnt mean that 
Penvest should  have  assessed it as right for Mr Fs overall circumstances   any more  than 
any adviser would accept a product providers risk rating without further investigation.  Under 
COBS 9.2.2 Penvest  had to make its own assessment  of the risks and satisfy  itself that Mr F 
was able to bear them.  And with the concerns  Mr F already had about the fall in value of his 
portfolio, Im not persuaded he could bear the added risk that SLWs  hedging  strategy might 
fail - in addition to the likely depletion of his fund from excessive income  withdrawals alone. 
Ive accepted that DFM  in and of itself wasnt inappropriate for Mr F. So in order to provide 
suitable advice  and act in his best interests,  I consider Penvest should have rejected this 
proposition which SLW  described as unique  and sought out an alternative DFM which  
would manage  Mr Fs more conventionally (likely involving a majority component in 
corporate and government bonds and more of a focus in the UK). As Mr F seems  to me to 
have been reliant  on Mr Fs advice,  I have little doubt that he would have followed that 
recommendation.
SLW wasnt able to guarantee that its strategy  would be successful at keeping volatility  down 
and maintaining the portfolio at the low-medium risk level it aimed for - and Penvest would 
(or should) have been aware of this. The portfolio  does seem  to have been invested largely 
in the way SLW set out it would be, and ultimately the risk that the strategy might not be 
successful came to fruition.  But I dont  consider  Penvest could reasonably  have expected 
that Mr F would be able to bear that risk. Thats why Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN502804715fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible  to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr F 
would likely  have invested in a more conventional low-medium risk portfolio with another 
DFM. I didnt find fault with the recommendation to switch  to cash. So the redress  Im 
awarding is only in respect of that portion of Mr Fs SIPP  which was moved from cash into 
SLWs DFM  in January  2016.
From what  I can see SLWs fees were separately taken from the SIPPs cash account  rather  
than from within the DFM  portfolio. As I consider these would have been similar to the fees 
other DFMs  might have charged in any event, Im not requiring these to be refunded  as part 
of the compensation. (Nor will the methodology I set out below result in a refund of SLs 
SIPP and income  withdrawal fees.)
Penvest also took its 1%pa ongoing charge  from the SIPP and Mr F has asked for this to be 
refunded. However  Im mindful that this is a fee he agreed to pay  and its a fee I think 
Penvest would have  charged (and Mr F would have paid) if an alternative DFM had been 
recommended. Some of this fee was also for the initial advice rather than ongoing service. 
Both parties  agree that the adviser  was open  to reviewing  his fee if the portfolio didnt 
perform. But ultimately  Mr F decided to return to the advisers former  firm rather than cancel  
or renegotiate the fee. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for me to make an award for these 
ongoing fees. But I do think its fair for me to credit back to Mr Fs SIPP  the added cost of 
£1,000 he seems to have  paid to the previous  firm when he moved the funds back  out of 
DFM. I dont think its likely hed have incurred this fee, in addition  to the 1%pa ongoing 
charge, if Penvest had made a suitable  DFM recommendation in the first place.
It isnt possible to say precisely what split of assets another DFM would have chosen, but Im 
satisfied that what  Ive set out below is a fair and reasonable way of calculating 
compensation given Mr Fs circumstances  and objectives when he invested.
 
what should  Penvest do? 
To compensate Mr F fairly Penvest should:
Compare the performance of Mr Fs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.  
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and the difference  is payable 
as compensation.  Penvest should  pay into Mr Fs pension  plan,  to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any growth  on that compensation as set out below. Its 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If Penvest  is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Fs pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
Ref: DRN502804716The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs marginal rate of tax during 
retirement. Once Mr F uses  up his tax-free cash entitlement he will need  to provide his 
income from taxable withdrawals from the SIPP. So I consider it reasonable to assume hell 
be a basic rate taxpayer on the income he receives from any funds hes lost out on identified 
in this calculation.  The reduction to the compensation will therefore equal the current basic  
rate of income  tax. 
This is an allowance to take into account that Mr Fs loss will be suffered net of the assumed 
amount of future  income tax. It isnt an actual deduction of tax, so it wont be possible to 
claim back the amount  of the adjustment from HMRC. 
This method of calculation is intended to put back  any lost growth into Mr Fs SIPP 
but not to compensate for charges he would always have  paid.  Given that DFM  
wasnt of itself inappropriate and I havent  agreed  with all aspects of Mr Fs 
complaint, Im not satisfied he suffered material distress or inconvenience which 
would warrant an additional  award.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
investment benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional growth
portion of 
SIPP invested in 
SLW DFM 
portfoliofor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index; for the other 
half: average rate 
from fixed rate bondswhen funds were 
paid into SLW 
DFM arrangement (25 
January 2016)when funds were 
switched back 
out of DFM (16 
August 2017)compensation amount at the end 
date to be brought 
up to the date of 
my final decision 
using the same 
benchmark
If any compensation including the additional  growth at the benchmark  isnt paid to Mr F 
within 28 days of Penvests receipt  of his acceptance of my final decision, it will attract  
further interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of that decision  to the date it 
is paid.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. This fair value  is for the DFM portion within  the SIPP, so no other 
payments out of the SIPP are to be taken into account unless explicitly stated below.
The following  sales  of assets from the DFM portfolio will need  to be deducted  from the fair 
value at the point they were actually paid so they cease to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on:
06 July 2016 £12,000
06 January 2017  £  6,000
06 April 2017 £  2,000
10 April 2017 £12,000
Ref: DRN502804717If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Penvest totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at the end of determining the fair 
value, instead  of deducting  periodically.
The payment of £1,000 Mr F made  to the previous firm when  he moved back  out of DFM 
should be added onto the fair value on the final day of the comparison  16 August 2017.
why is this benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation instead  of the 100% FTSE UK Private  Investors  
Income total return index  proposed by the adjudicator, because:
Mr F wanted  income with as much preservation of his capital as possible and was 
willing to take a below-average degree of risk to achieve this.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Fs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr F into that position. It does not mean that Mr F 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return net of costs which  Mr F could have obtained  from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint in part, and require Penvest to pay Mr F fair 
compensation as calculated  above.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5028047