K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs M aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  
the policy to her card. Mrs M has told us that the PPI was taken  out in store  with her credit 
card where it was added  without her knowledge. FICL has told us the PPI was added to 
Mrs Ms card during  a phone call after she took out her card.  From the evidence provided by 
FICL I can see that Mrs M didnt  choose  to take PPI when she applied  for her card. I can 
also see that the PPI was added to her card several  months after she applied  for it. So I 
think its most likely  that Mrs M did apply for the PPI over the phone.  I cant know  for certain  
what was said at the time but as Mrs M applied for the PPI sometime  after the card itself so I 
think she would have  known she didnt have to take the policy, and chose to have it,  
although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay, savings and help from her husband. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ms sick pay, and for longer than she would have received 
full pay. The PPI would also have protected Mrs Ms savings so they could be used towards  
any other essential expenses she may have had. And while Mrs Ms husband would have 
wanted to help his ability to would  have been dependent  on his circumstances at the time, 
which could have changed. So I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
Ref: DRN56103542for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5610354