K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr J took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1980. His statements show  that he was charged 
twice for PPI: once  in April 2000  and once in May 2000, but these charges were then 
refunded in full in June 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
I dont think Lloyds owe Mr J a refund of PPI here  Ill explain why.
The only record of Mr J ever being charged  for PPI is in the year 2000,  where  he was 
charged in April and May.  However, these payments were  refunded  in June 2000. As Mr J 
has already received a refund of all the PPI premiums that hes recorded  as paying, I dont 
think Lloyds owe him any further refund.
Mr Js credit card statements are only available from 2000 onwards. So it is possible  that 
Mr J was paying for PPI sometime  between  1980 and 2000, too. Because  that period was so 
long ago, neither  side have records of Mr Js account from the time. So Ive thought  carefully 
about whats most likely  to have happened.
Mr J doesnt remember choosing PPI, but I think thats understandable given just how long 
ago any sale would  have  been. It would have  been a very serious  failing for Lloyds to have  
added a policy without  Mr Js permission,  but I have no evidence which shows  thats what  
Lloyds did here. I dont even have any sufficient  evidence  that Mr J was even paying for PPI 
in the period of 1980 to 2000. And that period was too long ago for Lloyds to reasonably be 
able to produce evidence to defend itself now. So on that basis, I cannot fairly  conclude that 
its most  likely Lloyds  did something wrong  in that period. I think  its more  likely that, 
assuming there even  was a policy in that time, then Lloyds made Mr J aware he had a 
choice about buying it, and he chose  to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr J at any point. The requirements  were 
stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend the policy,  so to be fair to Mr J Ive assumed it did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the policy was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances around the time, it looks like it was.
Ref: DRN57430042For example, Mr J doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the normal  exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And so far as he remembered, he didnt have any other protection  in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job. I understand  Mr Js friends and family mightve  
been willing  to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when 
needed. And this card was Mr Js sole responsibility  I dont think it wouldve been suitable 
for Lloyds  to have advised him to rely on other people to pay it. So it looks like the PPI 
couldve been useful  for Mr J in case he fell on difficult times. 
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr J about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions  or limitations,  and it could have been useful for Mr J if something went  
wrong. Then  if he changed  his mind or his circumstances changed, Mr J couldve cancelled  
the policy at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI was likely to have  put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5743004