K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  her property and contents insurer  Tesco Underwriting Limited. 
She thinks it hasnt done some things it was told to do in a previous decision I issued and 
she remains unhappy with some payments it has made in settlement of a claim she made to 
it following  a fire in 2013.
background
There was fire in 2013, Tesco accepted Miss Bs claim and made  some  payments to her. 
But Miss B was unhappy with much of what it had done and the position it had ultimately left 
her in in respect  of getting repairs done. Miss B complained to this service. 
I considered Miss Bs complaint and, due to the complexity and number of issues, I wrote 
two decisions;  one in respect  of the complaint  regarding the buildings claim and one 
regarding contents.  In a nutshell  I found that Tesco had elected to repair  the property but 
then unfairly settled in cash, forcing  Miss B to carry out work.  So I thought it was responsible 
for the poor quality of repairs.  I said it should make some payments and consider other 
issues via the appointment  of an independent loss adjuster. Regarding  the contents I said 
that claim should be considered via the appointment of the loss adjuster and a jewellery 
expert.
Miss B accepted  my decisions and, after Tesco offered her a list to pick from, a loss adjuster 
was appointed. In July 2016 some substantial further payments were made to Miss B and in 
November 2016  Tesco made what it said was its final payment in settlement of both claims. 
Miss B felt there were still unresolved issues and made a further complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt we couldnt consider any of Miss Bs complaint as it all stemmed  from 
my original judgement. One of my ombudsman colleagues thought Tesco was wrong in that 
respect, that there were some things  we could consider. An investigator then looked at the 
merits of Miss Bs complaint but when Miss B remained unhappy it was passed  to me for a 
decision.
Having looked  at everything I felt I needed to issue  a provisional decision.  My provisional  
findings were: 
what did my previous  buildings decision say?
I initially issued a provisional decision in which I explained my intention to have Tesco pay 
Miss B for some items but consider others. In response Tesco  said it didnt really agree with 
what Id said but would  appoint a loss adjuster  to consider everything. My final decision  said:
I didn't  give Tesco the option of getting  a loss adjuster  to assess  and investigate  all of the 
areas and/or specific points I made  findings on. For some things I just said it had to 
reimburse Miss B's costs;  this is because the time for consideration of these costs  and the 
circumstances that lead to them has passed..There is not to be any further debate  on 
these items/costs. What  Miss B can evidence  must  be reimbursed, plus interest.
So the loss adjuster wasnt  to be tasked with assessing everything.  There were somethings 
I felt Tesco  should  just pay without further  consideration,  as long as Miss B evidenced what 
shed paid. 
Ref: DRN50950112For the two issues below then (bathroom and kitchen flooring) I cant look at what  Tesco 
paid, or refused to pay or whether its decision in that respect was fair. Thats  because  when 
this service makes a direction to an insurer, without any leeway for consideration, that 
direction ends our process. We cant look at what is or isnt paid by the insurer  - whether 
they have complied with the decision or not would be for the courts  to decide. To be clear on 
this Ive set out below what  I said in respect of each issue.
bathroom
In my previous decision I said:
[Miss B] said that her bath was scratched [and] the flooring  had to be lifted  to fix the wiring
I have seen nothing  that makes  me think it would be unfair of me to make Tesco liable 
for these  things
And:
[in my view] the only fair outcome here is for Tesco to take on responsibility for fixing the 
problems it caused  and, in this case,  that mostly  means reimbursing Miss B's costs  for 
getting the work done properly.
My resultant  award was that Tesco  must:
reimburse Miss B's costs for rectifying the bathroom damage.
So, as explained  above, I cant look at what Tesco did in this respect.  However, Miss B said 
in her complaint form to us on this complaint that the bath and floor tiling in the bathroom 
(mentioned in my extract  above)  cost £800 to replace. Therefore, and in an effort to assist 
with bringing this long running complaint to a close for both parties,  if Miss B has invoices or 
receipts that show that outlay then she can provide them to me and Ill pass  them on to 
Tesco to aid it in complying with my previous decision. 
kitchen floor
In my previous decision I said:
the floor was left in an uneven state.Therefore,  it makes sense that Tesco  pays or 
arranges for suitable flooring to be laid that accounts for the uneven  nature of the base 
and/or for it to be levelled.
My resultant  award was that Tesco  must:
reimburse Miss B's costs for having  laid suitable  flooring/levelling  her floor,  plus interest*. If 
Miss B hasn't done this then arrange for it to be done.
So, as explained  above, I cant look at what Tesco did in this respect.  But I note that Miss B 
says the flooring cost her £850 to fix, whilst Tesco only paid £773 (which seems  to have 
been for tiling alone). So, in line with what Ive said about the bathroom,  if Miss B has 
receipts or invoices showing she paid £850  for the kitchen floor to be rectified  then she can 
provide them  to me and Ill pass them on to Tesco to aid it in complying with my previous 
decision. 
Ref: DRN50950113jewellery
There is also an issue with jewellery which I similarly  can say little about here. 
In my previous contents decision I said:
Miss B should be interviewed by a jewellery  expert to ascertain descriptions  of any other  
items she believes are missing, these descriptions  can then be compared  against the photos 
from the time the box was taken to see if items like those  described  by Miss B were in the 
box. I think this needs to be overseen by the independent loss adjuster But he will need to 
instruct an appropriately  qualified  jewellery expert to assess what jewellery Miss B had and 
is likely  now missing, along  with associated values.
My resultant  award was that Tesco  must:
Instruct an independent loss adjuster.to assess and determine..what, if any, jewellery 
was likely missing..  [along with its] related cost.A jewellery expert should be appointed 
by the independent  loss adjuster  to do this.
So here I directed  Tesco  to appoint a jewellery expert, this is no different to a direction to 
make payment. Whether  Tesco made  the appointment or not, or if it didnt why it didnt and 
whether it now should, are things for a court to decide if Miss B seeks to enforce my 
decision. There was a payment made  by Tesco for jewellery though, I think  I can look at this, 
Ive explained  why and my view on it below.
aspects the loss adjuster was tasked with considering
Where I require  an insurer to consider a topic, I can often, at a later date, if a further dispute 
arises, look at what has gone on. So where  my previous  decision said an aspect should  be 
considered, I can now look at what happened  and decide if I think Tesco has acted fairly and 
reasonably or not.  
jewellery
Tesco paid Miss B £500 for missing  jewellery. This arose as a result of my requirement for 
Tesco to consider Miss Bs loss.
In that respect  Miss B told the loss adjuster in an email dated 11 November 2016:
There is also approx a further £500  or so for jewellery
The loss adjuster then recommended that Tesco  pay this sum and it did so, in 
November 2016,  as part of a larger payment totalling £2,500.  As Miss B told Tesco this was 
an amount she thought  it owed her for jewellery, I think  its decision to pay this sum was fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  intend to make  it pay anything  more.
camera lens
In my previous decision my award was:
Instruct an independent loss adjuster... to assess and determine..a  fair and reasonable 
settlement for all of Miss B's contents that were damaged beyond repair.
Ref: DRN50950114Apart from the jewellery already mentioned above, and the sofa dealt  with below, the camera  
lens, worth  £200, was the only contents item that Miss B identified a concern with in this 
current complaint. She felt Tesco had refused to pay for it.
I see there was some  debate about the lens but Tesco  ultimately said its payment to Miss B 
in November 2016 of £2,500 included an allowance of £1,500 in case it was felt that any 
other small  items hadnt been  taken into account by all its other  settlements. It said that £200 
for the lens could be seen  to have been paid by virtue and as part of that allowance. I think  
Tesco has made a fair point. Taking the allowance into account, I think Tesco has already  
made fair payment to Miss B to cover the loss she reported in respect of the camera lens. 
I dont intend to make it pay anything  more.
sofa
Miss Bs original suite  was damaged in the fire. Tesco paid her £1,000 in settlement  for the 
damaged sofas.  Miss B said its payment was so low it caused her to buy an inferior suite  
which had, within a few months of purchase, failed. Shed spent £1,323 to buy that and 
would need to replace it. 
In my previous decision, having found that Tesco had let Miss B down  in its assessment of 
her claim, I said: 
the loss adjuster..will have to consider if the settlement Tesco  gave for [the original suite] 
was sufficient and if it wasn't what a fair settlement would have been..I think [Tesco]  
should pay her what  the loss adjuster  thinks should  have been  paid.
I havent seen  whatever  evidence the loss adjuster  was provided in respect of the original  
suite. But he says it was comprised of one three-seater and one two-seater sofa. Miss B said 
she had one four-seater  and one three-seater sofa in her front room. But she also said to the 
loss adjuster when  she bought a replacement for the poor quality sofa, that she did however 
find one that was very close to my original  and she purchased it. The invoice for that shows 
one three-seater  and one two-seater sofa,  along with a chair and a footstool.  This all cost 
£1,839. The two sofas and the footstool, or the three-seater,  plus the chair and the footstool, 
totalled roughly  £1,000, a similar amount to what Tesco originally paid for Miss B to replace 
her fire-damaged  suite.
The loss adjuster also suggested  that Miss Bs room wouldnt have fitted a four- and a 
three-seater sofa. Having  seen some marketing photos taken prior to Miss B selling her 
home, I can understand his concern. What is apparent to me though is that there was very 
little clear evidence  of what Miss B had at the time of the fire. And because  of that, taking 
into account what evidence there  was, such as the size of the lounge in Miss Bs home,  the 
loss adjuster wasnt convinced that the settlement Tesco  originally made was insufficient.  
The loss adjuster though  suggested Tesco pay a further £600 to Miss B. He seemingly  
wasnt sure what  suite  Miss B had likely had before and felt that it should pay something to 
account for any underpayment that may have occurred. So the payment seems to have 
been suggested (and paid by Tesco) on the basis of a compromise. Given  the limited 
evidence the loss adjuster had, I think that was a reasonable action. I think it would be unfair 
and unreasonable to make Tesco do anything more. 
kitchen
Ref: DRN50950115In my previous decision my award was:
instruct an independent loss adjuster..to assess whether Miss B's kitchen, including  
appliances, is 'like' her old one. He must  also assess the state  the tiling was left in. The loss 
adjuster will then have  to make recommendations about what  he feels needs to be done  to 
ensure Miss B has a like-for-like kitchen  with 'finished' tiling.
Im also mindful that since my decision Miss B sold her home. So, as well as the kitchen 
being a point for consideration  by the loss adjuster, the sale of the house means the 
circumstances have  moved on from the point of my previous decision. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that I can consider what went on and the fairness of the settlement Tesco made.
The loss adjuster concluded that there was no evidence  the kitchen was un-like  Miss Bs old 
one but recommended  Tesco pay £2,000 for some repairs. 
I think that was fair and reasonable.  I say this particularly given the sale of Miss Bs home.  If 
the replacement  kitchen wasnt like her old one Tesco should have sorted that. But the fact 
Miss B moved made the comparison with the replacement kitchen irrelevant. She didnt have 
to live with a different  kitchen as she was no longer at the property and didnt/couldnt take 
the kitchen with her to her new home. Whether having a different kitchen, which  was inferior 
to what was there before, affected  the value of the property as Miss B has argued it did, is 
another matter.  
The estate  agent,  in an email, said (my emphasis):
the property would  be worth £109,950  if the kitchen had been upgraded, the bathroom had 
a full and modernised  matching suite, and the safety issues  in the stair area had been 
addressed.
No detail is given  as to what date the valuation was under-taken. No evidence from the 
valuation itself is provided. Nor is any detail as to the value it was actually marketed for.
As it stands I believe the property was put on the market as £99,500 and, as the agent 
mentions further  on in the same email,  it sold for £96,500. Miss B says the reduction from 
the advertised price  was again to do with the kitchen. But its clear  negotiations in this 
respect were  verbal. So there is no way for me to know what most likely affected the final 
reduction in price. 
Turning to the marketed price,  given the lack of detail and supporting evidence from the 
agents, I dont  find their comments regarding the propertys  value  particularly persuasive.  
But even if I take what is said at face value,  they dont persuade  me that anything  Tesco  did 
or failed  to do most likely  caused Miss Bs home  to lose value. 
The agent  said the value was affected  because the kitchen  wasnt  upgraded. It was never 
up to Tesco  to provide Miss B with an upgraded  kitchen.  The agents comments  dont 
evidence that the kitchen  wasnt  like what was there before and if a like kitchen had been  in 
place the value wouldnt have been  affected. So it isnt clear that any issue with the kitchen 
that I found Tesco was responsible for resolving had any effect on the overall value of 
Miss Bs property.
Ref: DRN50950116Similarly for the bathroom; whilst  my previous decision said Tesco  had to reimburse  Miss B 
for her cost to replace  her bath, it never had any liability for ensuring  she had a modernised 
bathroom suite. So if the lack of a modernised suite at Miss Bs property affected the value,  
this wasnt Tescos fault.
Tesco did pay for the stair bannister to be repaired. I think this payment came after the 
house was sold.  However, given the agents comments  about  the kitchen and bathroom 
(arguably far costlier issues for potential  buyers  to consider than fixing a stair bannister), 
I think, if anything,  the stair issue can likely only have had a limited impact  on the propertys 
sale value.  
Having considered the situation in respect  of whether Miss Bs home lost value due to any 
failing of Tesco, Im not convinced  it did. Consequently  I dont intend  to make Tesco do 
anything in this respect.
responses to my provisional  decision
Tesco considered  my findings and said it had nothing further to add. Miss B made some 
further comments and said she may have  some evidence of costs  to submit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, including  Miss Bs latest 
comments, my view hasnt changed.  Ive set out Miss Bs comments  and my responses to 
them below.
payments for work in the bathroom and for the kitchen  floor
Miss B said she may have proof  in the form of bank  statements showing money being paid 
to her contractor. But she said its obvious  the work  had to have  been  done so Tesco should 
pay regardless of proof.
I explained provisionally that I couldnt comment on what Tesco  has paid or refused to pay or 
make a decision requiring  it to pay more. But I said that I could forward  to Tesco  any proof  
Miss B had showing her outlay. Im still happy to do that. 
jewellery expert
Miss B said Tesco has never  assessed  her jewellery  despite being required to. She said she 
has pictures of two missing rings.
As I explained provisionally, Tescos decision not to utilise a jewellery  expert isnt something  
I can comment on or make any finding about. 
sofa
Miss B said that she only ever asked for Tesco to pay her for the recently purchased 
three-seater and two-seater sofa.  They  alone  cost £1,839, so Tescos payment of £600 was 
insufficient. She said the loss adjuster had seen the invoice and was satisfied.
Ref: DRN50950117The loss adjuster did see the invoice  but he clearly didnt feel there  was enough evidence for 
him to be satisfied Tesco did underpay at the outset. I set all of this out provisionally. Miss B 
may have  a different recollection but Ive seen  the email from the adjuster. Ive also seen  the 
invoice for the new suite. The two sofas  only come to £1,054.72. The total of £1,839  includes 
the chair,  the footstool, a fabric  care product, stain cover insurance and a delivery fee.  
kitchen and propertys  lost value
Miss B said again that Tesco had only paid for a very cheap kitchen that wasnt like the one 
she had before and there were faults with it which the loss adjuster had accepted. The 
estate agents  had meant upgradedto the standard of my original one not beyond that. 
She felt the loss adjuster  had accepted  the statement from the agents  at face value and 
hadnt seen fit to ask for other evidence so if this wasnt  available that was his fault.
The loss adjuster did accept there were faults with the kitchen and £2,000 was paid for 
repairs. He didnt accept  or find any evidence it wasnt like the old one. The loss adjuster did 
undertake enquiries  with the agents but comments that they didnt supply any reports  or 
specific records despite being asked to do so. He didnt consider that there  was likely a 
reduction in value of the property. Again Miss B may have a specific  recollection of talks she 
had with the agent but the email the agent sent Miss B referred to what  price  might have 
been achieved  if the kitchen had been  upgraded. Theres no way for me to know  that in 
saying this the agent meant to the standard but not beyond that of the old kitchen  or that 
the agent would even  have known about the quality or standard of that old kitchen. I remain 
unconvinced that Miss Bs property sold at a value less than it otherwise would have done 
because of a failure  by Tesco to reinstate her damaged kitchen on a like-for-like basis.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before14 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5095011