K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from London and Country Mortgages Ltd 
(L&C) when he was arranging a mortgage  to buy his home.
background
Mr K was arranging a mortgage through L&C. The lender made it a condition of the 
mortgage that Mr K download and use its app.
A mortgage offer was issued  on 27 August 2018  and that said You  must download the 
[lender] app and use this to view and accept the terms and conditions in addition  to legal 
documents that your solicitor will require you to sign.
As Mr K hadnt accepted the terms and conditions via the app, the lender sent an email to 
L&C on 10 September  2018 to chase it up. L&C says it didnt receive  the email.
Mr K didnt accept them  until 21 September which delayed  the solicitor  being able to submit 
the certificate of title (COT). There were then mistakes  on the COT which  I wont  be dealing  
with here as theyve  been the subject  of a separate complaint  against  the lender.  But all this 
together led to Mr K missing his completion date of Friday 28 September, instead completing 
on Monday 1 October. He says he had to book and pay for accommodation for the weekend 
as he had to move out of his rented property on the Friday.
Our adjudicator thought L&C did receive the email and caused Mr K inconvenience when it 
didnt act on it. She said Mr K also had responsibility  though as it was in his mortgage offer.  
For that reason  she didnt  think  L&C needed to cover  Mr Ks accommodation costs, but she 
did think it should pay £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience  caused.
L&C didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr K and L&C wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for both sides but although  Ive read and considered 
the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
As I said,  Im not dealing  with the COT  issue here as that was dealt with as a separate  
complaint against  the lender. Im just looking at L&Cs involvement and whether it did enough 
to assist its customer, Mr K.
L&C has said it has no record of the email being  received, and said it discussed it with the 
staff involved. It said There could be any number of reasons for an email  not reaching  its 
intended destination and we have  seen plenty of examples of this from both clients  and other 
organisations we deal with via email and the simple fact that it was sent does  not guarantee 
receipt.
Ref: DRN50902572Its concerning that L&C has seen so many examples of emails  not being  received. I can 
only suggest it investigates that as its not normal. Its fairly unusual that a correctly  
addressed email isnt received, especially one from a regular  sender so would be unlikely to 
be automatically diverted  to a spam/blocked folder.  
Having considered the evidence from the lender and the reliability of emails  generally, I think  
it most  likely   on balance   that the email was sent by the lender and received by L&C. 
What then happened to it is a matter  for L&C to investigate, but Im satisfied it most likely 
was received.
All that said,  I agree with our adjudicator  that Mr K had the responsibility here to check his 
mortgage offer and ensure he followed the instructions in it. So I dont find L&C are liable to 
cover his accommodation costs due to the delayed completion.  But I do think  the service fell 
below what Id expect.  L&C could have done more to ensure its customer  understood what 
he needed to do, and to follow  that up when it was notified by the lender that Mr K hadnt 
accepted the terms and conditions via the app. Awarding compensation for things like this 
isnt an exact  science; by nature its a subjective  judgement. Overall,  I think the adjudicator  
judged things well here when she assessed fair compensation at £100.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  In full and final settlement, I order  London  and Country Mortgages Ltd 
to pay Mr K £100 compensation. I make  no other  order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5090257