K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Vanquis Bank  Limited  wont refund credit card payments made  for the 
hire of a motor home.  
background
In October  and November  2018 payments were made using Mr Ws Vanquis  credit card to a 
company which  hires out motor homes. They  totalled £665. Mr W says that the company 
didnt provide the motor home  and had no authority to take the payments. 
Vanquis raised a dispute with the motor home  company, but it said that Mr W had cancelled 
the hire agreement and that he wasnt entitled  to a refund of anything more than the security 
deposit of £250. 
Mr W was unhappy with the outcome and so complained  first to Vanquis and then to this 
service. He said that he hadnt  signed the agreement with the hire company and that it, 
rather than he, had cancelled the arrangement.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but concluded that Mr W had agreed  to be 
bound by the terms of hire and that those  terms allowed the hire company to charge the 
sums it did. The investigator didnt consider that Vanquis should  therefore be required to 
make a refund.  Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Ill consider first of all Mr Ws argument that he didnt sign the agreement  with the hire 
company. The hire company says that the agreement was signed electronically, and I note 
that its dated some weeks after the initial booking was made and the first payment taken. 
Electronic signatures  are not unusual, especially where arrangements are not made face-to-
face. I think it more likely than not therefore  that Mr W did sign the agreement, but that he 
did so electronically.  Whether he did or not though, I believe he was still bound  by its terms, 
since by making the booking  he would  have agreed  to them.  A signed  agreement was simply 
evidence of what had been agreed. Mr W has also noted that the date of the agreement was 
about a month after he made the booking.  However, the fact that the written  agreement was 
completed some time after the booking was made doesnt make that agreement invalid or a 
forgery; it still recorded what had been  agreed. 
Mr W has suggested too that the hire company cancelled  the agreement, not him. I have 
however listened  to a recording of his call to the company in which  he askes  about 
cancellation and the fees associated with it. First of all, thats further evidence that he placed  
the booking and that the hire agreement is genuine. But its also apparent that he and not 
the hire company cancelled the agreement. He explained in that call that he and his wife 
wouldnt be able to take the camper van because  shes just returned from surgery.    
Since Im satisfied that Mr W made the booking,  agreed to the booking terms and cancelled 
the agreement  very shortly before he was due to collect  the camper van, I need  to consider 
what the effect of the cancellation was. 
Ref: DRN58956472The terms of the hire agreement said that a full refund  would be due in the event of 
cancellation within 24 hours of the booking being  made. After that, the cancellation fee would 
be 7 nights of the overall rental  including  extras.  And if the booking was for less than 7 nights 
or the cancellation was within 6 weeks of the date of collection, the cancellation fee would be 
the full rental. Mr Ws agreement was for 4 nights, and he cancelled less than a week before 
the collection date.  That being the case, the terms of the hire agreement  said that the full fee 
would be payable. 
The amount  charged  included  not only the hire fee, but also fees for unlimited mileage, an 
upgrade package, insurance waiver and an administration  fee  as well as the security  
deposit, which I understand  has been  returned. 
In the circumstances, I can understand why Vanquis wasnt  successful  when it raised a 
dispute with the hire company. And I dont believe it treated  Mr W unfairly  in holding him 
liable for the payments it had made to the hire company. I do of course understand that Mr 
W feels that the cost of cancellation was too high and not what  he was expecting, but Im 
afraid that isnt a reason  for requiring Vanquis  to make a refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank  Limited to do anything  further to resolve 
Mr Ws complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5895647