K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about his home insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) in respect of a 
claim he made for damage to a carpet. He believed it was going to recover  his excess  and 
that his no claim bonus wouldnt be affected  as a result of recovery action  he understood it 
was going to undertake against a third-party tradesman that had caused the damage 
claimed for.
background
Mr Rs carpet was damaged by a tradesman  carrying out work in his home.  The tradesman 
told Mr R that whilst he could claim for the carpet under his business  insurance, the insurer 
would likely  only pay a percentage of the replacement costs because  of the carpets age. 
Mr R called UKI. 
UKI told Mr R that his excess would be refunded and his no claims bonus wouldnt be 
affected if it made a successful recovery from the trader. UKI later found out though  that the 
trader operated as a limited company  and the company had been dissolved a few days  after 
the damage was caused to Mr Rs carpet.  UKI noted  that there was around £8,000  worth  of 
debts recorded  against the company. It made  enquiries with the companys insurer  but was 
told no claim had been made. It became apparent that the company couldnt afford to pay 
the excess so had chosen not to claim for the incident.
Our investigator felt that UKI had done nothing  wrong in the handling of Mr Rs claim. He 
didnt think UKI could reasonably have been expected to do anything more.  
Mr R said it was unfair that his policy would be affected in the future  when the trader  may 
just be able to get insurance again  without any increase or impact from this incident. He said 
that the traders insurer hadnt acted  very sympathetically in this situation and, as it is part of 
the UKI group, it should be made to do something  more. Mr R said he had done  nothing 
wrong and wouldnt  have made a claim if he hadnt  been promised a satisfactory recovery.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From everything Ive seen  I dont  think UKI made any promises to Mr R regarding recovery. 
It said his excess would  be returned if recovery was successful.  And he was warned his 
cover could be impacted  (if recovery wasnt successful). So I dont think it misled  him into 
making a claim.
Nor do I think UKI knew, at that time, that the chance of recovery  was unlikely. If it had done 
then Id have expected  it to have been  honest  with Mr R. But it is clear to me that it was only 
after the incident was notified to UKI that the limited company was dissolved.
It is up to an insurer to decide whether to pursue recovery action  or not. I can see that UKI 
didnt just forego recovery. It did make  some enquiries with the limited  companys insurer.  
That revealed that no claim had been made  against it because  the company couldnt  pay the 
excess. That meant there was nothing for UKI to pursue in this respect. UKI also made a 
judgement about  whether to pursue the limited company. It felt there no real prospect for 
this, given the debts already shown as owing. It also noted that it couldnt pursue the director 
Ref: DRN50094152of the company, given its limited liability status.  I think UKI gave due care and consideration 
to this recovery action.  Im satisfied that it reached a fair and reasonable decision not to take 
further action  in this respect. 
I know Mr R would like the companys insurer to repay his excess and thinks  that in the 
circumstances here it would be fair for it to do so. Whilst Im aware that insurer  is part of the 
UKI group, Mr R has no relationship with that insurer. So I cant consider a complaint that 
relates to its actions or inactions. I can only look at UKIs  actions from the perspective of the 
cover Mr R had and the claim it accepted and paid to him regarding  his damaged carpet.
I accept that its frustrating that the company in question, because it has refused to make  a 
claim, has caused Mr R to lose out financially.  And that his insurance may be impacted in 
the future,  whereas any reincarnation of the company may not suffer in the same way. But 
that doesnt mean I can fairly make  UKI do more as a result.  UKI, in respect  of Mr Rs policy 
which is all I can look at here,  has, in my view, acted fairly and reasonably. The fact that 
Mr R was left in an unsatisfactory  positon by the company that caused the damage to his 
home, isnt UKIs fault and isnt something  it reasonably has to compensate him for.     
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5009415