K821x#15Complaint
The executors of the estate of the late Mr S complain that BMW  Financial Services (GB)  
Limited (BMWFS) didnt handle the Personal  Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement  well.
Background
Mr S entered into a PCP agreement in June  2018  for £29,052  plus interest of £3,220. Mr S 
passed away in January  2019 and his executors notified BMWFS within  two days.  A week 
later BMWFS wrote to the executors offering three options:
1) Transfer agreement  into somebody elses name subject to credit  checks.
2) Pay an early settlement  figure  of £26,958.12 and keep the car
3) Voluntary Terminate and hand  the car back and pay £12,722.49
It asked that a decision be made within  14 days. On 29 January the executors took the view 
that the only feasible option was to voluntarily  terminate the agreement.  The car was then 
sold at auction  for £19,900. 
In an email dated 31 January BMWFS said: it may be more feasible  to sell the vehicle back  
to the supplying dealer based on the settlement quote of £12,722.49  and this is something 
you can discuss with them to determine if there  will be any negative equity which  may be 
less than the voluntary termination  shortfall. 
The executors spoke to the dealer who had sold the car and were  offered £16,284 leaving a 
shortfall of £10,674.12. The executors say the estate did not have the funds immediately 
available to do this and so went with the voluntary termination they had already opted for.
The executors complaint  was rejected and the matter was referred  to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended it be upheld. He thought  the 
options given  to the executors were  very limited  and it would have been fair and reasonable 
to have offered  Voluntary Surrender.
He explained  that Voluntary Surrender  is where the consumer returns the goods to the 
finance provider  and the goods are sold. The sale proceeds are used  to reduce the total 
amount outstanding, which is then reduced by a rebate of interest as the agreement is 
ending early. He went  on to say that Voluntary Surrender is not set out in the Consumer 
Credit Act but is often used by finance  providers in the industry  in circumstances such as 
these.
As the car was less than a year old and with a low mileage, he thought it would have clearly 
been an option that should have been discussed  by BMW.  He said the sale of the car was 
not discussed on the options letter dated  24 January 2019, but after the executors had 
already reluctantly opted Voluntary  Termination  out of the three  options  they were  given.
He suggested  that BMWFS should put the estate back  in the position it would have been 
had it been offered and accepted Voluntary Surrender. 
BMWFS didnt agree and said its bereavement team had advised that the executors had 
chosen to Voluntarily  Terminate. It added that after it has the car back there is no cost to the 
person at all.
Ref: DRN53052752My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why the executors felt aggrieved when having promptly notified BMWFS it showed 
little understanding of their situation. BMWFS offered  them three options and a two week  
time limit to decide.  I can understand it wished to protect its positon and ensure it didnt lose 
out financially; it is a business after all. However, it seems to have profited from the situation.
If an early settlement had been taken it would have  charged £26,958 and this on top of the 
payments Mr S had made would have ensured  BMWFS didnt lose out. With Voluntary 
Termination it received  £12,722, plus £19,900 on top of the payments Mr S had made. I am 
sure it didnt intend to profit from the unfortunate circumstances in which Mr Ss family found 
themselves.
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable and I can only conclude  that the suggested 
redress out forward by the adjudicator would produce such  an outcome. BMWFS  will not 
lose out financially  and the estate will have paid Mr Ss debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to refund to the estate of the late Mr S the difference between what it would have  
paid had voluntary  surrender had been offered and accepted plus interest at 8% simple from 
the date paid until repaid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask the executors of the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
2 May 2020..
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5305275