K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a personal loan. He said that he wasnt told it was optional or given  
enough information.
background
Mr P applied for a loan of £2,000 in a Lloyds branch in 1995 and bought a single premium 
PPI policy  at the same time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front 
in one single  payment.  It cost £383 and this amount was also lent to Mr P by Lloyds and 
subject to interest. Both the original  loan and PPI loan initially  ran over a period of 
24 months. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr P disagreed and it 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
These events took place  some time ago and neither Lloyds nor Mr P is able to send me the 
original loan agreement  or other documents from the sale.  Given  how long ago it was, this 
isnt unusual. But Lloyds  did send in an example of a form which it said wouldve been used 
in Mr Ps case.
Ive also seen a number of very similar sales from around this time period and am familiar 
with the documentation Lloyds normally used. So in making a decision in this case,  Ive 
taken account  of what both parties  have told me, but Ive also used my knowledge and 
experience of how these particular  PPI sales were usually carried out. 
As this was all over 23 years  ago, its obviously possible what  he is able to remember may 
have been affected by the passage of time. 
I say this because  using what I know about  the Lloyds sales process I think its more likely 
that there  wouldve been a discussion in the branch about the loan and whether Mr P wanted 
to have PPI with it. Based on that discussion,  I think Mr P would have then been given a loan 
agreement which offered a yes or no choice as far as buying PPI was concerned. And I 
think the box to have PPI wouldve had to have been selected for the PPI to be added. The 
example form we were  sent reflects this process.
So I think Mr P would have been given an option  on the form about taking the policy  out and 
would have been able to see he didnt  have to any PPI cover  if he didnt want  to. I therefore 
think its likely he gave his consent  to buying  the PPI policy with his loan.
Lloyds says it recommended this policy  to Mr P which  means it had a duty to make  sure that 
it was suitable  for his situation. I looked  carefully  at his circumstances of that time to help me 
Ref: DRN51326782decide about this. From what Ive seen, he was eligible  for the cover  and I dont  think  hed 
have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
Mr P told us he had some  sickness protection already  through his job, implying he didnt 
need this type of cover. I can understand why hes told us this but Im afraid it doesnt 
necessarily mean he didnt have a use for the policy. The policy  could have paid out a 
monthly benefit in the event of him being unable  to work through  illness, or losing his job 
completely and this would have been  in addition  to any other means  he already had in place. 
So whilst I cant say why he took out the PPI, I can understand how he could  have had a use 
for it. The loan and the PPI policy both ran for the same  term lengths and because of this, 
and the things Ive mentioned above,  I think the policy was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I obviously cant say what was actually  said to Mr P during  his meeting with Lloyds or 
whether he was told everything  he should  have been. However,  on Lloyds loan agreements 
Ive seen from this period  - and on the example it showed me regarding  this case - the cost 
of the PPI was prominently set out. It showed the cost of both the loan and PPI policy over 
the term and the monthly repayments  for each. In some of the agreements  Ive seen, it didnt 
always show the interest that would be added to the PPI clearly  enough. 
However, in this particular  case, the interest  on the PPI part of the loan wouldve amounted  
to less than £80 anyway over the full term and I dont  think this would have made a 
difference to whether Mr P would have still bought the policy. I think  hed have still bought  it, 
even though Lloyds might not have done  everything right.  
I accept there are documents missing  from this case that wouldve been  helpful for me to 
see. But overall, I think Mr P made a choice to buy the cover and it was suitable  for him. And 
I think the document that he signed during  the sale wouldve showed him that it wasnt a 
compulsory part of his loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank plc to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5132678