K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that adequate affordability checks werent carried  out before Billing Finance 
Ltd provided him with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) to acquire a car. He also says that a 
default has been unfairly applied to his account.
Background
Mr B entered into a HPA with Billing  Finance in July 2018 to acquire a car. He says that 
adequate affordability checks werent  carried out before the finance was provided.  He says 
that after a few months his hours  were  temporarily reduced and he contacted Billing Finance 
about this as he was going through financial hardship but Billing  Finance werent supportive.
In January 2019, Mr B says he was called  by Billing Finance about a missed  payment and he 
told the adviser when  he would  make  the payment and he did this. In February he received 
his credit report and found that a default  had been registered on his account. He says he 
wasnt given any warning  of this and that it was of particular concern as he works in finance.
Billing Finance  says that before providing the HPA it carried  out a credit check to assess 
Mr Bs creditworthiness. It says Mr B was provided with the pre-contract information before  
signing the HPA and that Mr B signed confirming he understood  the terms of the agreement 
and that the repayments were affordable. It also carried out a verification call before the 
funds were released in which the monthly repayments were confirmed and Mr B was asked 
if he was happy  to proceed.
Billing Finance  says that due to the arrears  on Mr Bs account a default notice was issued on 
12 December 2018, and this was sent to Mr Bs home address. As payment wasnt made  in 
line with the default notice  and it wasnt able to contact Mr B the agreement was terminated.
Our investigator thought that Billing  Finance had acted reasonably by saying Mr B would be 
able to keep the car if he cleared the arrears  on his account. She didnt  think  that Billing  
Finance had done anything wrong  in applying the default and so she didnt require this to be 
removed from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said that Billing Finance hadnt followed the correct 
process in regard to applying  the default. He said he kept calling Billing Finance to discuss his 
situation and that Billing  Finance was aware that the best way to contact him was by email. He said 
that he didnt receive  any notice  of the default  by email or post. He says that adequate checks 
werent carried out before the finance was provided  which was why he went into financial  difficulty.
Mr B also said that he was up to date with his payment and the only outstanding amount 
related to a payment to the recovery company which he had said he wouldnt pay due to not 
being served with the notice of default.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
before the HPA was provided Billing Finance gathered information about Mr Bs income 
and expenses  and based on the information  provided  the HPA appeared affordable.
Ref: DRN53657532a verification  call took place between Mr B and Billing Finance  before the agreement  was set 
up and the payment  amount was provided  to Mr B and he confirmed this was affordable.
the bank statements relied on by Billing  Finance were from Mr Bs limited company and 
not his personal account. Mr B was the sole director of the limited company, it was set 
up at his address and he was registered as a contractor. The March and April 2018 
bank statements for the limited company  showed receipts  of payments from a company 
in both months which supported the income amount gathered  by Billing  Finance. I noted  
that Mr B must  have provided  these  in support of his application.
Mr Bs personal account  statements  showed payments from the limited company to 
Mr B suggesting he chose when to take an income  from this source.  In March 2018, 
Mr B received a total of £1,720  from the limited company  along with significant receipts 
from another source. Based  on the limited company  income and the recorded expenses  
Mr B would have had a disposable income of around £700 compared to the monthly  
payment required  under the agreement of £330.
in April 2018  Mr B didnt receive  any income from the limited company although he did 
receive money from other sources.
Mr B transferred  money in and out of the limited company to his personal account  when 
needed and I didnt find it unreasonable that Billing  Finance considered the agreement  
would be affordable at the time it was provided.
Mr B didnt make  his repayments and arrears built on this account. Billing Finance made  
contact with Mr B about  his missed payment and he didnt  raise  any financial difficulties 
at that time.
in October,  Mr B said he advised of his financial difficulty which he said was due to a 
reduction in hours. This suggests that Mr Bs situation had changed. Mr B was provided  
with the options  available  to him in terms of exiting the agreement.
Mr B made a payment  of £150 towards  his arrears on 3 December and discussed his 
thoughts about  the car at that time. He was told about his options and the risk of a default.  
Following this, the agreed  contact wasnt made.  A notice  of default was sent to Mr Bs 
home address dated 12 December 2018. Mr B says he didnt receive this but I find it more 
likely than not that it was sent. The default was applied  to Mr Bs account  in January 2019. 
I did not find that Billing Finance  did anything  wrong by applying  this default 
Billing Finance  had said that Mr B can keep  possession  of the car if he clears  the arrears.  I 
found this reasonable and suggested  Mr B discussed this directly with Billing Finance. I did 
not require Billing Finance to remove the default  applied to Mr Bs account
Mr B didnt accept my provisional  decision. He reiterated his concerns about his company 
bank statements being relied on and said his personal account  had a number of returned  
direct debits at the time and he was in his overdraft. He said that some of the income 
received from his limited  company in March  2018 was returned  and that his first payment 
under the agreement was returned showing he was struggling financially.
Mr B said that he notified Billing Finance of his change in circumstances through its webform and 
he filled this in three or four times  before he got a response.  He again said that he didnt recall 
receiving a letter about the default. He reiterated  that he wanted the default marker removed.
Ref: DRN53657533My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
The agreement had monthly repayments of around  £330. Mr B has said that proper 
affordability checks werent carried out before  the HPA was provided  and that the default 
shouldnt have been applied as he didnt get notice of this. 
While I note Mr Bs comments  about  his accounts at the time the agreement  was set up, I 
can also see that there were significant  payments coming into his personal account  and that 
his account was in credit for the majority  of March and April (the statements that relate to the 
time period his company  statements were  provided  for). I have considered that Mr B had the 
first payment  returned  and I note that he was experiencing financial  difficulty shortly after 
entering into the agreement. However, he has explained that his circumstances changed  
and, on balance, I do not find that I have  enough to say that at the time the HPA was entered 
into, and based on the information Mr B provided  at this stage, it was unreasonable that 
Billing Finance  considered the HPA affordable.
In regard the default, Mr B was aware that he wasnt maintaining his payments and he was 
told of the consequences of this in a call in December 2018. I note his comments  about not 
receiving a default notice but, on balance, I accept that Mr B was aware of the situation on 
this account and that adequate information  was provided to him before the default was 
applied. Therefore I do not find that Billing  Finance  is required to remove  the default.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Billing Finance Ltds offer to allow Mr B to keep the car if he clears  
the arrears on the account is reasonable. I do not require it to remove the default  from 
Mr Bs account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5365753