K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  her home 
insurance claim for accidental damage to her kitchen  and cancelled  (voided) the policy  and 
returned her premiums when it found out she operated a business  from her home. 
background
Mrs K took her policy  out in January 2016, purchasing  it through  a well-known national  
retailer. When Mrs K took the policy out she was asked to confirm that The building is not 
used in full or part for any business  use with the exception of childminding  and clerical  work 
whether by me or any other person unless agreed by us in writing  which she did. 
In April 2016 Mrs K accepted voluntary  redundancy from her job. Shortly after,  she set up a 
small business home baking celebration  cakes.  
The policy renewed  in January 2017 and January 2018. On each occasion the renewal  pack  
included a Statement of Fact which contained the statement quoted  above.  At the top of the 
Statement of Fact it said Please review all of the information and limits below. If you have 
not answered questions honestly,  withheld information or not selected the correct level of 
coverwe may refuse  to pay your claim, pay only part of your claim and/or void your policy. 
In July 2018, Mrs K made a claim to RSA for accidental water damage  to her kitchen. When 
reporting the claim she mentioned to RSA that she ran a cake business  from home.  She said 
that she didnt  think shed mentioned it before but did hold separate  business insurance for it. 
RSA appointed a claims  validation  company to look into the claim as its underwriters had 
advised that consumers that ran businesses from home, other than those which  were for 
childminding or clerical  purposes,  were unacceptable risks so no policy  wouldve  been offered. 
The claims validation company contacted Mrs K. Having done  so, it established that Mrs Ks 
business had not previously been disclosed to RSA. And, that if it had, RSA would never 
have offered cover. It noted  that Mrs Ks business  was a small one, was registered with 
HMRC and that she had taken out public liability insurance for it. It also noted that Mrs K 
didnt make much money out of it and that shed told it that she never  thought to tell RSA 
about it but if itd asked  her she wouldve done.  
The claims validation company wrote to Mrs K. It accepted that her company had started 
after inception of the policy and that there  had been no deliberate  attempt on her part to 
withhold its existence from RSA.  But it said her failure to disclose at the two subsequent  
renewals that she ran a business from her home was material  to the risk that RSA was 
underwriting. It said that if Mrs K had told RSA about  the business it wouldnt  have  offered 
the policy to her. Finally it said it was voiding the policy to January 2017 and returning  all the 
premiums shed paid to RSA since then. RSA refused to pay Mrs Ks claim as a result. 
Mrs K complained to RSA about  its decision and she notified this service  that she was 
unhappy with what RSA had done. She said she was very upset; felt her integrity was being 
questioned and that shed  never  deliberately withheld the existence of her business from 
RSA. And Mrs K said she thought the punishment  didnt fit the crime.
RSA looked into Mrs Ks complaint but didnt  think itd done anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN54850672Our investigator also looked into Mrs Ks complaint but didnt think  RSA had treated her 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mrs K was unhappy with our investigators 
findings so our investigator looked  at her complaint again  but wasnt persuaded to change  
his mind. He said that the onus was on a consumer to make  sure they gave the correct  
information to their insurer. He said that because Mrs K didnt let RSA know  she was now 
operating a business from her home,  RSA had been unable to let her know before she made 
her claim that it wouldnt insure her. Our investigator  said he appreciated that Mrs K hadnt  
intentionally withheld the information from RSA,  and that the business was only a small one, 
but the fact remained that RSA wouldnt have offered cover if it known about it. 
Mrs K asked for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I appreciate  it will come  as a 
disappointment to Mrs K Im unable to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Whilst I dont doubt  that Mrs Ks failure  to disclose the existence  of her business  was entirely 
unintentional on her part, Im unable to ignore that she was under a duty to take reasonable 
care to make sure RSA had all the information it needed when  offering  her cover at renewal. 
Mrs K says this was an oversight and that it wasnt deliberate. And she says she was 
experiencing some personal challenges  and difficulties at the time. I fully accept what  she 
says. And I do appreciate  that having a voidance against her name  is causing  her serious 
issues that she feels are disproportionate to the mistake she made. 
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy,  they are asked  various questions  
about themselves,  what they want to insure or to confirm that information previously provided 
and held by the insurer is correct. The insurer uses the answers given, and the information  
provided, to assess the risk of insuring the consumer  and to calculate what  price to charge 
for doing so. Basically, the insurer is trying  to assess how likely it is that the consumer will 
make a claim. And to do so it has to rely on the answers and information that its given as 
being accurate.  If an answer is inaccurate or misleadingly incomplete it can be said to be a 
misrepresentation. And in certain situations the insurer will be entitled to take action as set 
out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Ive quoted above from the Statement of Fact that Mrs K was sent at renewal. I think it was 
clear that Mrs K was being asked to review  that the statements that followed were  correct 
and to notify RSA of any changes. So Im satisfied that Mrs K was made aware  she needed 
to let RSA know of any changes that had occurred since first taking the policy out. CIDRA 
says a failure by a consumer to comply with an insurers request to confirm or amend 
particulars previously given is capable of being  a misrepresentation. 
RSA was satisfied  that Mrs Ks oversight  was careless rather than deliberate  and I agree. RSA 
has also shown that if it had been provided with the correct  information then it wouldnt have 
offered to renew  Mrs Ks policy. Having shown this, CIDRA permits RSA to void the policy.  It 
also states that where the misrepresentation is careless (as opposed to deliberate or reckless) 
the premiums should be refunded. So Im satisfied  that RSA has followed the provisions laid 
out in CIDRA  and has treated Mrs K fairly  and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN54850673Regrettably, Mrs K did misrepresent the risk she was asking RSA to cover and, unfortunately 
for her, doing so came  with consequences. I know Mrs Ks business was small and that no 
clients came  to her home so she thinks the consequences of her misrepresentation are 
unfair. But she was operating  a business,  however small, and RSA had made  it clear  that it 
wanted to know  about it if she was. So Im unable to agree that RSA has unfairly applied the 
remedies it has available  in such circumstances. It was Mrs Ks responsibility to check the 
renewal documents  she received and to make sure the information they contained  was 
accurate and, if not, that RSA was updated. 
As the policy is cancelled  back  to 2017, it means  it wasnt in force  when the damage 
occurred to Mrs Ks kitchen. That means RSA hasnt unfairly declined  Mrs Ks claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5485067