K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wouldnt honour a cheque  paid into his mothers 
account. The bank  then ignored a letter of complaint.
background
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his mother Mrs M. Mr M wrote a cheque from his 
HSBC account.  The cheque was given to his mother to deposit  in her building society on 
3 December 2018. But she was told the cheque had been bounced by HSBC.
Mr M said attempts  to transfer the money  also failed. The building  society  said itd never 
received the payment. And the problem  caused  a great deal of embarrassment to the family. 
His mother was depending  on the money for her business. When they tried to complaint 
HSBC didnt respond. So they would like compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
HSBC said the cheque hadnt  cleared because the signature didnt match  its records.  The 
bank hadnt intended to cause any inconvenience. But it was important to protect customers  
from fraudulent behaviour. HSBC said itd now received an updated  signature. And there 
shouldnt be a problem  in future. The electronic payment sent on 7 December had been 
rejected because the roll number was missing. And the reference  used was for Mr M. But the 
payment had been resent correctly on 14 December. 
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with HSBCs  response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at whatd happened. And she didnt think  
HSBC had acted  unfairly.  The cheque had been returned because  the cheque  signature was 
different to what the bank had on file. And HSBC had a duty to protect  its customers from 
fraud. She could see the electronic transfer  had gone  through  after the building  society  roll 
number had been included. And she didnt feel she could hold HSBC  responsible  for the 
payment failing the first time. HSBC had offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill for any 
inconvenience. And itd refunded £60 of payment  charges.  She felt that was a fair response.
Mrs M didnt  agree. HSBC  had never  apologised. The family were  well known at their branch 
and had used  HSBC for many years. And the cheque was made out to the same surname 
as Mr M. The delayed  payment caused a lot of problems. So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting  this has been  for Mr M and his family. They live in a rural area. And 
theyre concerned  how the payment problem might be conceived  in the local community. Ive 
looked very carefully at everything thats  happened to see if HSBC has done anything 
wrong. But its important  to realise this complaint has been brought by Mr M against HSBC. 
And I can only look at whats happened  between the two parties. I cant consider the impact 
any mistake mightve had on a third party.
I realise Mrs M feels HSBC handled the situation badly. They  spent several hours on the 
telephone trying to find out whatd happened. And HSBC  didnt  get in touch  to query the 
signature or payment problems. 
Ref: DRN57883842HSBC has explained  it sends a letter when payments  are returned. But not when cheques  
are bounced. The bank had to make  an immediate decision. And if it had any concerns the 
processing system would  cancel the cheque. 
I think the signatures do differ enough  for HSBC to take action to protect Mr M from potential  
loss. I know the cheque was made out to someone  with the same surname. But fraudsters 
can be very sophisticated. And its important the bank protects itself and its customers from 
wrongful activity. Of course in this case the transaction  was perfectly legitimate. But Im sure 
Mr M and Mrs M wouldnt want  HSBC,  or any bank, to lessen their security checks  where  
they felt they knew the customer.
I know Mrs M feels HSBC  shouldve done  more to let them  know there  were  problems. But 
the building  society  made her aware  within a couple  of days. And Mr M attempted a bank 
transfer later that week. HSBC has made  a decision not to write  to customers about  
problems with cheques. The receiving bank  or building society would normally contact the 
customer if there is a problem with a cheque deposit. And thats  a business decision Im not 
able to interfere  with. In this case  Mr M and Mrs M were aware there  was a problem within  a 
few days. 
Mr M attempted  an electronic transfer later that week. But it seems  the roll number was 
missing. And the transfer was made successfully the following week. Mr M says he gave all 
of the correct information to HSBC. But I cant be sure exactly  what  happened  when the first 
transfer was attempted. And Ive not seen  enough evidence to suggest HSBC did anything 
wrong with the information it was given.
I do appreciate how distressing this has been for Mr M and his family. But as Ive explained I 
can only consider  whether  HSBC made  any mistakes. And if so what impact its had on 
Mr M. 
HSBC says it hadnt made any errors.  And it responded directly to Mr M when there was a 
complaint. Mrs M wasnt named on the account.  But the bank refunded  transfer charges 
totalling £60 and offered Mr M £50 as a gesture of goodwill for any inconvenience.
I know Mr M and Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant say the bank 
acted unfairly when it rejected the cheque  due to concerns about the signature. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest it made a mistake when  it processed the electronic transfer using 
the information itd been given. 
HSBC has offered a total of £110  compensation as a gesture of goodwill. And based on 
what Ive seen I think thats a fair response. And I wont be asking the bank to do anything  
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Ref: DRN57883843Andrew Mason
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5788384