K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W bought  the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking  out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mrs W says she wasnt given any information  about the PPI when she took out her 
store card, and that she didnt know the cover  had been added to her account. Ive 
noted everything Mrs W has said.  The difficulty I have is that I cant  be sure what  
was discussed  between Mrs W and FICL  when the policy was sold. 
But the store card application form Mrs W completed  included  a separate section 
about PPI that she signed to show that she wanted  the cover. And there was another  
type of cover available on the form that Mrs W couldve taken, but it seems she 
chose not to. So on balance  I think Mrs W wouldve  realised she had a choice about 
whether or not to take the PPI. From what Ive seen,  I havent been able to safely 
conclude that FICL didnt  make Mrs W aware that the policy  was optional.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. That means  it didnt have to ask about any other  means that Mrs W had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Mrs W, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs W says she was entitled to benefits from her employer if she was off work  sick. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits, and wouldve 
meant she could use her sick pay to cover  other  expenses.  
So I think Mrs W wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing 
arrangements.
 Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs W would have been affected by any of the 
Ref: DRN56022442main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive noted what  Mrs W has said about  PPI that was mis-sold to her in connection with a 
different product. But for the purpose of this complaint, I can only take account  of the 
circumstances of this particular sale. And having done so, for the reasons Ive explained 
Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5602244