K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2004. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Mr A took out the store  card 
in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr A says FICL mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mr A 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As case and Ill explain why.  
As this was a non-advised sale FICL needed to give Mr A clear  information about the PPI 
before he agreed  to take it out, in order for him to be able to decide if he wanted the cover.  
And that includes information about the cost of the policy and the benefits  it provided.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think FICL  did make the ongoing costs  of the policy  clear 
at the time Mr A was applying for PPI. I think this is important because, based on Mr As 
circumstances at the time, I think this wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out 
the PPI. 
The policy cost £1.50 each month  for every £100.00  Mr A owed on his card, and upon a 
successful claim  it wouldve paid 15% of the statement balance. But the true costs were 
much higher  as the premiums were  added to the account attracting interest (which 
compounded over time) and the premiums would continue to be charged during the period of 
a successful claim, reducing  the benefit.  Mr A says he was entitled to six months full sick pay 
from his employer at the time. Hes not been  able to provide any evidence of this, but Ive not 
seen any persuasive  evidence to make  me think that he wasnt  entitled to this sick pay. And 
based on the nature of his role and his employment sector, I think its likely he was entitled  to 
this. 
So based  on Mr As circumstances at the time,  I dont think he wouldve felt the policy was 
value for money  when  considering his alternative means of making his repayments. And I 
think it is more likely  than not that Mr A wouldve decided  not to take out the policy  if he had 
been given clearer  information about the true cost of the PPI. So I think  Mr A has lost out as 
a result of what FICL has done wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mr As complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN54426692FICL should put Mr A in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL  should find out how much Mr A would have owed when he closed his store  card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr A owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mr A would have 
owed when  he closed his account from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when FICL works out what Mr A would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr A paid more than enough  to clear his balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr A wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest  rate should 
be 8% a year.
D. FICL  should tell Mr A what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr A that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr A a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint.  So Financial Insurance
Company Limited  should pay Mr A compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5442669