K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the manner in which he says Paragon Finance Plc trading as Idem 
Servicing is chasing  him for a debt it says he owes. He says it hasnt provided information 
hes requested about  the debt and hes been  threatened  with legal action. He also complains 
the debt was made irresponsibly and the terms were  unfair.  He wants it to stop contacting 
him and chasing  him for the debt. Mr K is represented by solicitors  Ill call F.
background
F told us Mr K entered into an agreement for running  credit, a credit  card,  in 2009. It says 
he subsequently ran into financial difficulty and struggled with debt for some time. It felt 
action taken by Idem was unfair  and set out a number of specific issues:
 Assignment - it said the creditor  had not provided evidence  of the notice of assignment
 Affordability and Irresponsible lending - it said Mr K was vulnerable and had been  taken     
advantage of. And thered  been  an inadequate  check on his ability  to repay  the loan
 Unfair terms - it was alleged certain fees and charges were excessive
 Administration and Enforcement - it was alleged Mr K had received threatening letters and 
phone calls and that enforcement action  had been aggressive.
It also said Idem contacted Mr K directly even  though hed appointed F to represent him and 
made it clear  he didnt want any direct contact.
Idem told us it had provided the information  F had requested and had evidenced  the debt 
was enforceable.  But it had not received any payments or payment arrangement. It said it 
was entitled to contact Mr K direct. It said it had not applied any fees or charges to the 
account.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said Idem had 
provided the information F had requested. And it had sent a notice of assignment  to Mr K. 
She said Mr K hadnt disputed the debt was his and had made reduced payments up until 
April 2017. As this evidenced the debt was Mr Ks she was satisfied Idem was entitled  to 
pursue him for it. In response to a comment  from F that she hadnt  fully addressed each  
point of the complaint she later explained  why she did not think  Idem had done anything 
wrong in contacting Mr K directly.
F, on behalf  of Mr K, didnt accept this and said Idem hadnt provided sufficient information 
for it to properly assess the sum that should be outstanding. And it suggested reporting the 
debt to credit  reference agencies  could not be accurate  if Idem wasnt able to properly prove  
the debt. It wanted  an ombudsman  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59716622Its important to understand that I do not apply the law directly although I take it into account.  
This means  its not for me to say whether  a debt is or is not enforceable. That would be for a 
court to decide.  What Im required  to do is to determine if Idem  has acted reasonably  both in 
terms of having  a reasonable belief it was entitled  to pursue Mr K for the debt and the way it 
went about this.
In the original complaint F, on behalf  of Mr K, made a large number  of allegations regarding 
various aspects of this debt. Ill deal briefly with several of those issues as I dont think  they 
are matters for which  Idem is responsible. 
Idem is the purchaser of the debt - not the original  lender. So issues  of whether the credit 
was lent irresponsibly and/or was not affordable are not matters for Idem. Similarly the terms 
and conditions of the loan and interest and charges imposed before it acquired ownership of 
the debt are not the responsibility  of Idem. 
I can see when the adjudicator acknowledged  the complaint  she advised these aspects 
should be taken  up with the original  lender. I assume that as no evidence has been  provided 
about these issues  in relation to this complaint it is accepted they are not matters  for Idem.
In any event, in the absence  of evidence, I cant say Idem  has done anything  wrong  in this 
regard.
When F first wrote to Idem in June 2017 it requested information  including a copy  of the 
signed agreement  and details of the account and sums payable. Ive seen evidence that 
Idem has now provided this information  along  with copies of the notice of assignment  dated 
November 2016.  Ive also seen statements of account dated 30 June 2018  and 2 October  
2018 sent to Mr K detailing payments made  between January 2012 and April 2017. It 
appears some of the payments  were made  through  a Debt Management Plan. Other  
payments were made  by cheque and standing  order.  And it shows  no additional charges or 
fees since Idem acquired the debt.  Mr K has not denied the debt is his and in view of the 
method of payments its an inevitable inference  he was aware  of these.
The evidence provided, on any reasonable view, is sufficient to show  on a balance  of 
probabilities, indeed beyond reasonable doubt,  that Idem was entitled  to consider Mr K was 
the debtor  responsible for repayment. And I find Fs assertion - that Idem had not provided 
sufficient information  to properly assess the sum outstanding and could not properly  prove 
the debt - to be without  objective justification.  And whilst Ive not been provided with a copy 
of Mr Ks credit file I cant  see any reason why it would be unreasonable  of Idem to report the 
continuing state of this account.
Allegations have also been  made about both about  Idems methods of seeking repayment  of 
the debt and it contacting  Mr K directly rather than through his legal representatives. Ive not 
seen any persuasive  evidence to support any allegations of threatening behaviour or 
harassment. I accept  the mere fact of being chased  for debt is likely to prove upsetting  but 
nothing Ive seen  makes me think the amount of contact or the manner of it has been  
improper.
As for the fact of contact  itself, its been  suggested Idem was wrong to contact Mr K directly 
rather than through  his legal representative. And its correct to say that under  rules  issued by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  lenders should not refuse to deal with a customers  
representative and/or contact the customer directly against his wishes  - without an 
objectively justifiable reason.
Ref: DRN59716623Idem has owned  this debt since November 2016  and Mr K stopped making  any payments 
since April 2017. Ive seen evidence that by this time hed instructed F. Theres evidence F 
had requested information from the previous owners. It seems  a similar request was later 
made to Idem  in June 2017. Whilst it took several  months to supply all the information  
requested thats  been done. So it cant reasonably be said Idem  has refused to deal with F. 
And Ive seen notes  recorded on Idems system that Mr K told Idem that F had advised him 
not to pay us a penny at all. This is recorded  as having occurred after a copy of the 
agreement had been provided. Its not for me to comment on any advice F may have given  
to Mr K. But its approaching two years since F has been involved and theres  no evidence of 
it attempting to negotiate any form of repayment  on behalf of Mr K. That seems  to me to 
provide an objectively  justifiable  reason  for Idem to contact Mr K directly. Theres  no 
evidence his representatives are prepared to progress  the matter  towards  repayment.
I think Idem has reasonable grounds to believe Mr K is the person responsible  for this debt. 
And that it is entitled  to seek repayment and take enforcement action if this is necessary. 
And I dont  think it has acted improperly to date in the manner  in which  it has sought to 
collect the debt.  
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr K Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5971662