K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S and Mr and Mrs T were business partners.  They  complain about the actions of 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) regarding the management  of their loan accounts.
Background
In 2007, the partners purchased a development site with the intention of building three new 
houses. The partners  took a £450,000 loan from RBS in March 2007, due to expire in June  
2008. 
The development ran into difficulties  and there  were  problems with funding  and repaying the 
debt when due. Over  the course  of several  years, a series of further loans, often  
restructured, were agreed. The partners loan accounts were  managed  by the banks 
Specialist Relationship Manager from 2010  and were moved  to the Strategic Management 
Unit in 2012.
In 2013, the last property in the development was sold and Mr and Mrs S sold one of their 
other properties in order to allow  the repayment of most of the partnership  borrowing. 
The remaining  debt was restructured in 2014  into a loan to Mr and Mrs S, which was paid off 
in 2019.
The partners complained to RBS in the autumn of 2016. The bank considered the complaint 
as part of its review of matters related to its Global  Restructuring Group (GRG).  The bank 
didnt offer the partners any compensation. Following the partners appeal to the 
Independent Third Party, the bank confirmed that the outcome of the review was unchanged.  
Unhappy with the banks response, the partners referred their complaint to this service.
The partners said RBS had unfairly increased the loan interest  rates and applied excessive 
charges during the many restructurings,  thereby diverting  funds from the business. They 
also complained  that the bank failed to provide  finance to enable  the completion of the final 
plot, which would have facilitated  repayment  of the outstanding debt. 
Our investigator looked at all the available evidence and concluded  that the bank hadnt 
acted unfairly. He gave  the following reasons, in summary:
The arrangement  fees were  charged  when restructured  or new lending  was set up. 
Arrangement fees are a normal part of agreeing commercial banking  facilities,  and 
were familiar to the partnership. The investigator didnt think it was unfair  to charge 
the fees on these  occasions.
Several of the fees were for renewals for short periods, because of the frequency of 
reviews. Some  of the fees were deferred,  but where they were  charged they were on 
an annual basis of 2% of the borrowing,  which the investigator  didnt think  
unreasonable. Even though the partners feel that the reviews  were too frequent,  it 
didnt result in them  paying more  because in each case  the fee was calculated  
proportionally on an annual  basis.
Given the expiry of the initial loan and the problems  with the development, it was 
reasonable for RBS to carry out the reviews  and to arrange the short renewals.
Ref: DRN50248032The lending margins werent unusually high for the time and werent  unreasonable in 
the circumstances. There was an outlier  when a 5% margin  was charged for some 
extra lending between April and October 2012  to aid completion of the project.  But as 
this was new money and was accompanied by increased risk, and had a lower 
arrangement fee, the investigator  didnt  think it was unreasonable.
The bank  was supportive of the partnership in 2009 when it allowed £80,000 of the 
proceeds from selling the first plot to go to further work on the project,  rather  than 
towards repayment of the loan.
Finance for the final plot wasnt part of the original agreement. RBS had made no 
commitment to support the development beyond the first phase,  and the project was 
intended to be self-funding after that. Whether to lend for the final plot was therefore 
a matter for the banks legitimate commercial discretion. The investigator didnt think  
the bank did anything wrong  by not funding the final plot.
The partners didnt  agree  with the investigators conclusions. Mr S made the following points, 
in summary:
Even though  the investigators  account  was quantitatively correct, there were 
qualitative issues that were not entirely  correct and deserve  an airing. RBS subjected  
the partners to unscrupulous tactics, typical of those described in publicly available  
reports on GRG. Mr S said the nub of the partners dissatisfaction was the emotional  
and nuanced strategy  of RBS.
As illustration, Mr S described  two meetings  which took place around 2009 or 2010. 
At one meeting,  Mr S said the bank representative seemed interested  only in the 
implicit threat of foreclosure,  and not in the fact the partners had already reduced 
their debt.  At the other meeting, when two of the partners had used an overdraft from 
their other business to support  the partnership project, Mr S said the representative  
took advantage of the expiry of the overdraft to negotiate a new consolidated 
property loan at a higher margin. They had no option but to accept, as no other 
banks were lending  on property at the time.
It is a measure of the strength of the partners financial position  that they managed to 
meet all RBSs additional charges and managed to keep the partnership  finances in 
check despite the hurdles to operating their businesses. They were strong enough to 
manage the stress and deal with the banks unreasonable  demands.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Im sorry  to tell the 
partners that Ive reached the same conclusions  as the investigator and for largely the same 
reasons.
Ive looked carefully  at the loan facilities agreed in 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013  and 2014.  Im 
satisfied that the arrangement fees and margins applied  by the bank werent  unreasonably 
charged, or unreasonably  high.
Theres no doubt that the banks general appetite for property lending changed after the 
initial loan reached  its expiry. But the general  economic environment had deteriorated and 
Ref: DRN50248033the property market in particular  was facing severe challenges. I wouldnt say it was unfair or 
unreasonable for RBS to have been  more cautious about lending  under those conditions, 
especially when the partners project  was behind schedule.
I appreciate that the partners felt that the project  was viable and that, with additional support, 
it would  have been able to do better than break even. They feel the bank should have 
provided enough finance to allow the project  to pay its own way. But the bank was entitled to 
make its own risk assessments  and its own decisions about whether  to offer further lending.  
For that reason  I dont  think RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably  when it declined  to provide 
further finance for the project.
I dont doubt that Mr S is sincere about  his recollection of the tone of the meetings 
mentioned above,  although I have no other evidence to go on. The banks attitude towards 
lending on property had changed and clearly  there  were uncomfortable conversations. But 
RBS also acted positively,  in my view,  by renewing the partners  lending  for several years 
beyond the initial agreed phase when the project  ran into problems.
I realise that the partners will be very disappointed by my decision. They endured  financial  
and personal difficulties during these events, and I understand  the strength  of their feelings 
about their complaint. But after considering all the evidence, I dont think  the bank acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S and 
Mr and Mrs T to accept  or reject  my decision before 14 July 2021.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5024803