K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly  settled a 
claim against her motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Miss As been  helped  by her dad but for ease of reading  Ill refer to 
his comments as being Miss As.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
background
Miss A phoned RSA to tell it shed been involved in a driving incident at low speed.  She said 
there was no damage to either car. Some days later she told RSA she didn't think  she'd hit 
the car in front of her. She said a witness from the car behind her at the time of the incident 
could support that. RSA settled the other  drivers claim against  Miss As policy, holding  her 
at fault for the claim. Miss A didn't  think that was fair and brought  her complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into it. He didn't  think RSA had done anything wrong. Miss A didn't 
agree so her complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss A made  a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything she said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the 
outstanding issues  following  our investigator's assessment of the complaint.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, or if in 
fact such an accident  has taken place, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts.  And, like 
all motor policies, Miss As policy allows RSA to settle claims as it sees  fit. That means RSA 
isn't under any obligation to act on Miss As instructions, as she believes. And it doesnt 
require her consent to decide how to settle  a claim.  So it may make a decision that she 
doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see if its done so reasonably.
Ive listened to the call when Miss A reported the incident to RSA.  In that call she clearly 
says that she lightly touched the other  car like a small  bump. And she later confirmed that 
shed hit the rear bumper  of the other car. But she said there was no damage  to either car. 
At that point RSA told her shed be held at fault for any claim. And I think  that was a 
reasonable position for RSA to take.
Some days later Miss A provided some photos of the other car. She said those didn't show 
any damage and she didn't  think she'd  hit the other car. She also said a witness in the car 
behind her could  say that Miss A hadnt hit the car in front.  But RSA didn't change  its 
position on liability. Miss A doesn't think that's  fair.
Ive looked at the images Miss As provided  of the other  car. Those  arent particularly clear. 
But I agree  theres  no obvious damage  showing on them.  But an independent engineer 
inspected the other  car. He also provided images of the car which also don't show obvious 
damage. But he found that there was damage to the rear bumper consistent with a low 
speed impact. It might  help if I explain that Im aware that, following low speed accidents,  it 
Ref: DRN56544362often might appear that theres little or no damage. But the impact zones of modern cars are 
designed to absorb much of the force of knocks to minimise injuries  to pedestrians  and 
passengers. And whilst on the outside, the bodywork may appear not to be damaged,  further 
investigation can often  reveal damage which is not immediately apparent. And in this case  
an expert independent engineers concluded  that the other  car had been damaged  in such 
an incident. And I think his evidence is persuasive that there  was damage to the other car, 
and that it was likely caused by the incident Miss A initially  described.  So I don't think 
Miss As photos are proof that no impact took place.
Miss A thinks RSA should  have allowed her to change her mind about whether or not she hit 
the other car. And that it should  have  done  more to consider her witness  evidence.  But in 
the specific circumstances of this case I think RSAs approach was reasonable. When  
Miss A reported the incident  she clearly  said she hit the car in front and RSA proceeded on 
that basis. And as I've said above  theres  independent evidence that confirms  the other car 
suffered damage  consistent with the accident. So I think it was reasonable that RSA gave 
more weight to Miss As evidence provided  the day after the accident that she had hit the 
car, than her comments some  days later that she might not have hit it. 
Also, while independent  witness  evidence  can be of great value in establishing liability, that 
evidence needs  to be credible. In this case I understand Miss As witness  was in the car 
behind her. And it's clear  RSA felt it was unlikely  the witness would have been  able to say 
without question that the two cars didn't come  into contact, especially as, initially  at least, 
Miss A said they had. And ultimately  RSA needs to consider whether or not it could defend  a 
claim in court. And clearly in this case it didn't  think, even with witness evidence, that it could 
do so. So it settled the claim. And given the weight of evidence that Miss A did hit the other  
car I think that decision was reasonable. It follows that I don't think  it made  a mistake in 
settling the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5654436