K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied by Lex Autolease Limited.
background
In October  2015 Mr H was supplied  with a car and entered into a Personal Contract Hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease. The term of the agreement was 40 months with an annual  
mileage limit of 8000 miles.
Mr H complains about recent issues hes experienced  with the car including:
A delayed credit  note from Lex for £200 which  he received almost one year after the 
sums were credited to his account
Damage caused  to the car during a routine wash.  Paintwork was burned off the side 
of the car and Mr H feels that the offer to fix this within three  weeks  wasnt good  
enough
A number of recalls  on the car
A number of repairs carried out during  the agreement. Most recently the front door 
latch, keyless entry function and air conditioning pollen filter needed repairing
Mr H also feels that Lex Autolease hasnt taken him seriously during the complaints 
process
Mr H is unhappy about the time and money the car has cost him over a three year period. 
He wants to terminate  the lease early  at no cost to himself and receive a full refund of his 
initial rental payment  of £4004.04.
In its final response Lex Autolease said it wasnt able to re-investigate  complaints which had 
already been investigated, resolved and final response letters  issued. It said that the recent 
issues with the front door latch,  keyless entry and air conditioning had been repaired.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into the previous issues raised by Mr H and was satisfied that these 
had been resolved. She said that Mr Hs complaint about the delayed credit  note had already 
been addressed  by Lex Autolease. She said that because Mr H hadnt  raised  a formal 
complaint regarding the damage caused  by the car wash she was unable  to look into this. In 
relation to Mr Hs complaint about  Lex Autolease failing to take him seriously  and behaving 
unprofessionally when leaving him a voicemail,  the investigator said that Lex Autolease 
hadnt acknowledged this and that Mr H should  be offered some compensation for this 
experience. The investigator also thought that Mr H should be offered compensation for the 
recent issues hed experienced with the car because although these  had been  repaired, he 
had been caused a degree of distress  and inconvenience. 
Lex Autolease didnt agree. It felt that the compensation recommended by the investigator 
was disproportionate.  It said the door latch replacement  and keyless  entry module 
recalibration were minor warranty repairs which had already  been  resolved before Mr H 
made a complaint. It said the new pollen filter was a serviceable maintenance item, not a 
manufacturing defect.  Lex Autolease  also said that it had apologised to Mr H for any 
misinterpretation caused  by laughter  in the background  of a voicemail left by one of its 
agents.
Ref: DRN50575022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has raised a number of complaints about  the different issues  hes 
experienced with the car. Im unable to look into all of these because  Lex Autolease has 
issued final response  letters  and the complaints werent brought  to this service within the 
relevance time limits. I am, however, able to look into the recent issues  which  Mr H has 
experienced with the keyless entry, the door latch and the air conditioning. Im also able to 
look at the complaint Mr H has raised  about the way he was treated by Lex Autolease  when 
it left him a voicemail.  
Ive reviewed the warranty history and I can see that the keyless  entry  module was 
recalibrated in September 2017.  I can also see that the door latch  was replaced in March 
2018.
Lex Autolease has confirmed that Mr H reported a smell  coming from the air conditioning in 
July 2018. The garage fitted a new pollen filter and used an anti bacterial wash  in the air 
conditioning system. Mr H paid for this as it wasnt covered under the warranty.
These recent issues have  all been addressed  and I havent seen any evidence  to suggest 
that theyve reoccurred, so Im treating the repairs as successful.  That said, I accept that Mr 
H will have been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience by the issues  relating to the 
keyless entry and the door latch. I appreciate that Mr H will have had to return the car to the 
dealership for repairs on two separate occasions for these issues. Ive noted Lex Autoleases  
comments about the issues being  minor but they are still issues  which  caused  distress and 
inconvenience to Mr H. 
In relation to Mr Hs complaint about the laughter on the voicemail left for him by Lex 
Auotlease, Ive thought about the impact this would  have had on Mr H within the context of 
the complaint.  Mr H expected to be treated with a level of courtesy  and professionalism 
when he complained. I think that leaving  a voicemail  with laughter in the background 
(irrespective of the reason for the laughter) is likely to give a customer  a negative  
impression. In Mr Hs case,  he got the impression that the agent was laughing  about  his 
complaint, so I have  to take into account the impact that this had on him. Lex Autolease has 
said that it called Mr H back  and apologised.  I havent been able to listen to this call so I 
cant be certain of what was discussed.
On balance, and taking the three recent issues with the car into consideration, as well as the 
voicemail message,  Im of the view that Lex Autolease should pay compensation of £450 to 
Mr H for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Lex Autolease  Limited must pay 
compensation of £450 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN50575023ombudsman
Ref: DRN5057502