K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained to us about  payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policies sold to him 
in 2002 and 2004 by Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide).
background
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought the policies werent mis-sold. In relation 
to the policy  sold in 2004, he thought that Nationwide should repay some of the cost to Mr N, 
because Nationwide  got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium). 
Mr N disagreed with this and so his complaint has been transferred  to me to consider.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover, and given his 
circumstances I think Mr N met those rules. So I think  hed have been  able to claim on the 
policy if he needed to. 
Mr N took out his first loan in a branch and the second over the phone. He was then given 
loan agreements afterwards to sign. Ive looked  at the copies of these agreements carefully. 
Each sets out a column which contains  figures  for the loan and PPI. The sections about the 
policy are headed;  
Optional Credit Insurance. 
Mr N signed both of the agreements. I cant be sure what  was said to him, but I dont  the 
agreements are consistent with him having been told that he had to take out the policies. 
And think its most likely  that having  read the agreements he would have known that he 
could decline the PPI if he wanted to. Ive carefully considered what  Mr N has told us, but on 
balance Ive concluded its most  likely that Nationwide gave him a clear choice. 
Next, Nationwide  told us it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N on either occasion. Mr N told 
us he thinks it did in fact recommend  it  and if that were the case, Nationwide would have 
been required to make sure that the policies  were suitable for him. But I dont need to decide 
whether a recommendation was made because I think  the policies were suitable  for him, and 
Ill explain  the reasons for this.  
Ive checked the main  exclusions and restrictions of the policies and given his 
circumstances, it doesnt look like Mr N would have  been  caught  by any of them.
Ref: DRN55595412Mr N told us that in 2002  and 2004 he would have been entitled to full sick pay from his 
employer for three months and statutory sick pay for the following nine months.  But the 
policies would have  paid out for longer than this and in addition  to his existing job benefits.  
The policies would have  paid out for the terms of the loans if he was off work sick, and would 
have covered the repayments for up to 12 months if he lost his job. Mr N could have  
cancelled the policies at any time and would have been given a pro-rata refund.
Mr N told us that his parents would have helped him with his repayments. However this 
would have depended on their circumstances at the particular time so wasnt  guaranteed. 
The policies would have  given Mr N peace of mind  and security.  They would have allowed 
him to use any sick pay or redundancy monies for necessary household expenses. So 
having considered all these factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable for him and 
the PPI would have provided him with a useful benefit which was also affordable  for him.
Finally, Nationwide  was required to provide Mr N with enough  information  about the policies 
so he could make the decision for himself about  whether or not to take them  out. Ive 
considered that its possible  that Nationwide failed to give Mr N clear enough information. 
But the cost of the policies was shown on the loan agreements  including  the amount of the 
premiums, the interest payable on the premiums, the total cost and the monthly payments. 
So I think its most likely that Mr N would have understood how much he was going  to pay. 
And Mr N doesnt appear to have been  affected  by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policies so I dont  think having clearer information  about this would have dissuaded him from 
taking out the PPI. 
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr N these 
policies. Which means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr N.
But in respect  of the policy  sold in 2004,  Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr N because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
In respect of the policy sold in 2004, Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr N any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should also 
pay back to Mr N any extra interest he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr N the extra he paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Ref: DRN55595413Mr N paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide should also pay Mr N 8%* simple interest 
on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr N can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But in relation to the 2004  sale, Nationwide Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr N 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5559541