K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr and Mrs P say that they were told that they had to change their account  to secure the 
increased overdraft they needed. They say they were told about the account benefits  but say 
they were told they were  free, as the monthly account fee was to pay for the overdraft.
background
Mr and Mrs P held a fee-free current account with Halifax since  1994. In October 2008 their 
account was upgraded  to a fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the URCA had been mis-
sold. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs P, but after giving this case  
a lot of thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to them. I know  this isnt the outcome 
they were hoping for. But I hope  that my explanation will help them  to understand how I have 
come to this conclusion. 
Ive started by considering whether Mr and Mrs P were given a fair choice. When  Mr and Mrs 
P complained to Halifax, they said that they were  told they had to upgrade to the URCA in 
order to take out an overdraft. However,  as they already had an overdraft on their fee-free 
account, I think they were  aware that they didnt have to have a packaged account to have 
an overdraft. 
In our questionnaire,  Mr and Mrs P have said that they were led to believe that they had to 
upgrade to secure an increased overdraft facility.  However, based  on what has been 
provided, I cant see that their agreed  overdraft limit changed when the URCA was sold to 
them  it remained at £100 and did so for a number of months after the sale.  Therefore, Im 
not persuaded that they upgraded to the URCA in the belief that it was the only way they 
could increase their overdraft limit either.
Mr and Mrs P have  found information  on the internet that they say shows  that the full 
overdraft benefit  of £300 shouldve automatically  been added to their account when it was 
upgraded to the URCA. But Halifax has provided information that shows  that the overdraft 
benefit was up to £300. Therefore any increase in overdraft limit was subject to application 
and approval and an overdraft limit of £300 (to match the fee-free benefit) wasnt necessarily 
guaranteed, as Mr and Mrs P believe it to be. 
Ref: DRN51752212So taking everything into account, on balance I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P 
agreed to the account, perhaps persuaded into agreeing to it by Halifax,  knowing that it was 
optional and that they didnt have to agree to it if they didnt want  it. I say this particularly as 
theyd held a fee-free account  - that had an overdraft facility - for many  years before 
agreeing to the URCA upgrade. 
Looking at what Mr and Mrs P and Halifax have said,  I dont think the account was sold on 
an advised basis. This means Halifax didnt have to check  if it was right for Mr and Mrs P. 
But it did have to give them the important information about  the account  so that they could 
decide for themselves whether it met their needs.     
Based on what Mr and Mrs P have said, it appears that the overdraft benefit,  insurance 
benefits and monthly  fee were discussed with them. Mr and Mrs P have said that they 
thought that the monthly fee was for the overdraft  and the insurance  benefits were free. But 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs P associated the fee to, they were  clearly willing  to pay the 
monthly fee. Therefore I dont think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account 
had they been told that the monthly  fee was for the package as a whole  which still included 
the overdraft benefit   rather than for a specific benefit.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs P were  given some information about the account benefits.  And 
although theyve  said they already held many  of the benefits I cant see why they could not 
use the benefits that came with the account. Indeed I can see they went  on to register 
mobile phones  and made claims  on the mobile  phone insurance. And I can see that they 
called up to query the travel insurance provided by the account too. So it appears that they 
were aware of the benefits and were  using them despite having  them  elsewhere. 
I accept that Halifax  may not have given them all of the information about the benefits that it 
shouldve. But Ive not seen anything about  their circumstances that makes me think that 
they wouldve  been put off from agreeing  to the account, had they been given even more 
information about it.
So given everything that has been said and provided about this complaint,  I dont  think  that 
the URCA was mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs P. Because of this, I dont think it would be 
appropriate to require Halifax to refund the URCA  account fees, as Mr and Mrs P have 
asked it do. 
I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr and Mrs P may now think that the URCA 
has been poor value for money  and they may now regret agreeing to it given how much  
theyve spent in account fees. But ultimately  this doesnt mean that Halifax was wrong to 
have sold it to them at the time.
Finally, Mr and Mrs P have said that over the years  they held the URCA, Halifax shouldve  
reviewed their account. But I dont think its reasonable  to expect a bank to monitor  whether 
its customers are using  the benefits  on a packaged  account. Ultimately, it was up to Mr and 
Mrs P to contact Halifax if they felt that the account  was no longer suitable  for them  or if they 
felt that they were no longer getting value for money. Therefore I cant  say that Halifax has 
acted unreasonably or unfairly if it didnt check with Mr and Mrs P whether the URCA 
remained the best account for them.
Ref: DRN51752213my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019. 
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5175221