K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt  with her furniture 
protection insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
background
Miss H made a claim  for a stain on her sofa.  Assurant initially  offered to repair the sofa.  But 
as the sofa had been discontinued Assurant offered a reselection  settlement for the 
damaged sofa and 50% of the value of her matching items, which  meant Miss H could select 
a sofa for £800.39.
Miss H accepted Assurants reselection  offer. She chose a new sofa and paid an additional  
£722.91 towards a matching sofa.  Assurant arranged to order and deliver  the new sofas  by a 
courier company. Miss H complains that when she opened the packaging she found  the 
sofas were damaged.
Assurant said the damage  occurred during the delivery to Miss H. It said the courier  had 
spoken to Miss H and explained the small space  they had to move the furniture through may 
cause damage to the sofas. As Miss H had signed a waiver  she couldnt  hold it or the courier  
company responsible for any damage  that occurred  during the installation of the sofas.  It 
offered Miss H £50 compensation for the time it had taken  to deal with her claim.
Miss H complained to us. She detailed the damage to the sofas and sent us photos of the 
damage, which shed sent to Assurant. She disputes that the courier  told her the items  could  
be damaged due to the lack of space  and says the damage to the sofa wouldnt have been 
caused in that way. She only signed the waiver as she wanted her sofas delivered but she 
thinks the waiver is contrary to consumer protection legislation. She denies she marked on 
the waiver that she was happy with the couriers service. She wants  Assurant to collect  the 
sofas and refund their cost.
Our investigator thought it was more likely than not that the damage to the sofas was caused  
before they were  installed in the property  so it wasnt fair for Assurant to rely on the waiver. 
She said Assurant should  refund all the money Miss H has paid towards the sofas  (including  
the reselection amount)  and arrange for the collection of the sofas at no extra  cost to Miss H. 
It should also pay additional compensation of £50 to Miss H for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Assurant disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision. It said:
between reselecting  the sofas and delivery  Miss H moved  home so she may not 
have considered the installation difficulties in her new house
Miss H opted to have  the sofas installed despite the courier  telling her the sofas may 
not fit which is why she was asked to sign a waiver to accept liability  for any damage  
caused during  the installation
the damage to the sofas could  easily have been  caused by pulling and pushing the 
sofas through a too small space
the policy said damage during transit or storage caused by contractors  wasnt  
covered. Theres no evidence that the damage was caused before the delivery  of the 
sofas. The manufacturer told it the sofas  wouldnt have left the factory in that 
condition.
Ref: DRN51070932my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to partly uphold  this complaint 
and what I thought was a fair and reasonable outcome in these particular circumstances. 
I said:
Assurants courier and Miss H have very given very different  versions of what happened 
when the sofas were  installed in Miss Hs home and how the damage was caused.
Miss H signed a waiver.  The waiver  document is clear that she authorised  the delivery to the 
required room even  though the courier told her of possible damage  to the sofas/property, 
and that she wont  hold Assurant or its courier responsible for any damage. Ive seen what  
Miss H says about the waiver but the waiver isnt inherently an unfair document or 
automatically contrary to consumer protection legislation.
However, having looked at the photos  of the damage to the sofas Im persuaded that its 
more likely than not that the damage wouldnt have occurred at installation. For example:  the 
wheels on the sofas look as if theyve  been in long term use and not damaged due to a one 
off incidence; its not clear  how installation would  cause  a hole in the sofa deep enough for 
some stuffing to protrude.
These events arise from Miss Hs claim for her stained sofa. The policy  says Assurant will 
replace the damaged part of the sofa and if that isnt possible it may provide a replacement  
at its discretion. Assurant  did offer a reselection replacement when it couldnt  repair  Miss Hs 
original damaged sofa. The Consumer  Rights Act 2015 says that it must perform the 
insurance contract service  with reasonable skill and care and as its delivered damaged 
replacement sofas  I dont think its done that.
Under the legislation the relevant remedy for Miss Hs situation is for a repeat performance 
or a price  reduction.  Theres no provision  under  the policy or the legislation relating to 
insurance contracts that says Miss H gets the cash instead of the replacement.
In all the circumstances of this case I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Assurant  to 
provide new replacement like for like sofas in exchange for the damaged sofas.
Given the dispute between the parties  about  whether the damage  was incurred on 
instalment I think it would be reasonable for Assurant to just deliver  the sofas to Miss H but 
not install them. So it wouldnt  need  to take the sofas to the first floor as Miss H previously 
required.
I understand Miss Hs husband needed  to take the front door off so the sofas would fit 
through the doorway. If Miss H wants Assurant to take the sofas through  the front door then 
it would  be reasonable for Assurant to ask her to sign the waiver before  agreeing  to do so. 
Miss H is now clear  about the full implications of signing  the waiver.
Assurant hasnt made any comment about our investigators suggestion that it pay £50 
additional compensation to Miss H for her distress and inconvenience due to its poor 
service. I think thats a reasonable additional  amount for it to pay.
Ref: DRN51070933developments since my provisional decision
Initially Miss H said she didnt trust the courier to deliver the sofa with care.  She clarified that 
her husband  had removed the front door to try to make the job easier for the courier,  not for 
the sofa to fit in the house.
I asked Assurant if it was possible for Miss H to collect the sofa from the manufacturer  direct.  
Having checked,  Assurant said it wasnt possible.  We updated Miss H. She said she agreed 
with most of the provisional decision but thought  she should get more compensation to 
reflect the delays  and her trouble and upset.  She said she wanted to enjoy  her first house 
and the problem with the sofas has resulted in her loss of enjoyment.  Also she hadnt 
received the £50 compensation  from Assurant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant hasnt raised any objections to my provisional decision which  Miss H accepts in 
relation to the sofas. So for the reasons I gave in my provisional findings Assurant must 
settle Miss Hs claim by providing new replacement like for like sofas  in exchange  for the 
damaged sofas.
Both parties  will note what I said above  about  delivery of the sofas. In summary, Assurant 
can just deliver the sofas to Miss H but not install  them.
I do understand having damaged sofas in her first home has been upsetting for Miss H. But 
from the photos of the damage  the sofas were  still useable.  There were delays which is why 
Assurant initially offered £50 compensation. Miss H says she never received that payment 
so my compensation  award is for £100  inclusive  of the £50 offer, which  I think  is a 
reasonable amount overall. Theres no basis for me to increase my award to more than £100  
in total.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
settle Miss Hs claim by providing new replacement like for like sofas  in exchange  for 
the damaged  sofas, and
pay Miss H £100 compensation in total (inclusive  of the £50 it had already offered) 
for her distress  and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
Ref: DRN51070934ombudsman
Ref: DRN5107093