K820x#14complaint
Miss Ds unhappy Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  (Red  Sands) has 
declined to cover an out-of-hours fee as part of her claim  on her pet insurance policy.
background
Miss D took out an insurance policy with Red Sands to cover veterinary treatment for her 
dog. The policy renewed around September 2017. In May 2018, Miss D says her dog began  
showing symptoms  including lameness   which worried her. And she says these 
symptoms got progressively worse through the night.  Miss D says she discovered a lump on 
his paw and after giving him pain relief  and trying to comfort  her dog, she called an out-of-
hours vet practice  at around 11:40pm. Miss Ds explained to us that her dog was chewing  on 
his paw, was suffering  from discomfort and was sleep deprived. Shes also told us that his 
stools became loose. So she was worried that his symptoms may have indicated a serious 
condition such as Alabama Rot or Lyme disease  which can be fatal. 
The notes from the vet practice say Miss D called to discuss the symptoms her dog was 
showing at around  12:43am the following morning. The vet offered her a consultation but 
Miss D declined this as the fees  which included the out-of-hours  fee  were too much. 
These notes show what Miss D discussed  about the symptoms her dog had and she was 
advised to stop him from biting or licking his paw by covering it over.  Later that night  
around 4:43am,  Miss D called the vet again.  The notes say shed tried everything  but he was 
still chewing  his paw and she couldnt  wait until the morning. She arranged to take her dog to 
the out-of-hours clinic  at around 5am where he was treated. 
Miss Ds vet submitted a claim for £249.32  to Red Sands on 14 June  2018  by filling in their 
claim form. Although the claim  was accepted,  Red Sands only agreed  to pay £2.32  of the 
claim after it deducted the excess and out-of-hours fee. Following  a complaint from Miss D, 
Red Sands  maintained its decision not to pay the out-of-hours fee. It said it wasnt covered 
by the policy  terms as it didnt think Miss Ds dogs condition  was life endangering . It relied  
on the vets notes which said the dog was eating, drinking and toileting okay, so it didnt 
think there were clinical signs of a life endangering condition.  And it said Miss D was told 
how to treat the paw until the morning when  there  wouldnt  have been  an extra fee. 
Miss D disagreed with this. She said theres no definition of a life endangering  condition in 
the policy terms and she wasnt in a position to determine whether her dogs life was 
threatened as shes not medically  trained. She said she thought her dog couldve had a life 
endangering condition. And no one couldve known his life wasnt  in danger until after he 
was examined by a vet  so she feels Red Sands is applying the term retrospectively. 
Unhappy with the decision made  by Red Sands, Miss D contacted our service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think the clinical notes were consistent 
with Miss Ds concern  that the condition was life endangering. She thought the notes 
indicated Miss Ds dog was fit and well and she didnt think there was any evidence 
indicating the vet thought  the dog needed  immediate treatment  or that they suspected 
Alabama Rot or Lyme  disease. She accepted  theres no definition of a life-endangering 
condition but thought  the out-of-hours treatment should be necessary to prevent a condition  
that would  be life-threatening in order to be covered. And she didnt think it was. Miss D 
disagreed with the investigators opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
Ref: DRN59180932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld for broadly the same reason  as the investigator, I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss D. Ill explain why.  
Ive looked carefully  over the terms of the policy Miss D held with Red Sands. In the Key 
Facts section, under  What is not covered? , it says, Any cost for out-of-hours fees unless 
required to prevent a life endangering  condition. And this is confirmed in the policy terms. 
So the question  for me is whether Miss Ds dog did have a life endangering  condition which  
needed treatment  outside the normal opening times of the vets practice  to be prevented. 
Its clear from everything Miss Ds told us and from reading the clinical  notes weve  been 
given that Miss D was extremely  concerned about the health of her dog. And I can 
understand why she wouldve been worried as he was displaying  unusual  behaviour  and 
distress. But I cant see anything in the clinical notes made in May 2018  by the advisor  or the 
vet to suggest they thought or advised Miss D that she needed to bring her dog in for 
immediate attention due to the symptoms he was displaying. I accept the advisor offered 
Miss D an appointment  time if she wanted  to take it up  but having looked  carefully at all of 
the evidence,  including  what shes said, Im not satisfied  she was advised  she needed to 
attend the vets immediately  or that they thought his condition was life-endangering.  And I 
think its more likely  Miss D took her dog to the out-of-hours service  because she was very 
worried about him.
The call notes from 12:43am say Miss D had told the advisor her dog was eating, drinking 
and toileting okay.  I think its more likely the advisor wouldve checked these details with 
Miss D as these are usual  signs of something  more serious.  And Im satisfied the advisor  
didnt treat the situation as an emergency,  in part, because Miss Ds dog wasnt  showing 
these signs. I can also see once Miss D took her dog to the vet, during the initial  physical 
examination, he was described  as having  deflated swelling to his paw which  was sore to 
touch. But otherwise, he was described  as being  Fit and well. Upon treatment, he was 
diagnosed with having a blister/cyst  and a micro-abscess due to the chewing which  was 
cleaned and dressed. And Miss D declined the offer to explore any problems  further due to 
the cost. 
Red Sands  has given us a copy  of the claim form submitted  by the vets.  In response to the 
question whether the condition was imminently life threatening, the vet didnt tick yes or no 
and instead wrote, See notes owner concerned. 
Overall, having looked  at all of the evidence very carefully, I havent seen enough in this 
case to make me think Miss Ds dog was suffering from  or thought  by the vets to be 
suffering from  a life endangering  condition.
Ive thought about what Miss Ds said about  there being a lack of definition  of life 
endangering condition in the policy terms. And I agree its not separately defined  in the 
terms. So Ive considered the ordinary meaning  of the words,  life endangering  which  
includes potentially life threatening or fatal.  So for the out-of-hours  fees to be covered under 
the policy terms, I think treatment shouldve been  necessary  to prevent a condition  that was 
potentially fatal for Miss Ds dog. And whilst  I understand Miss D strongly  disagrees,  Im 
satisfied the condition Miss Ds dog had wasnt life endangering. 
Ref: DRN59180933I do empathise with Miss D as I understand  she mustve been extremely  worried to see her 
dog in pain. And I can appreciate she wouldve wanted to get him treated as quickly as 
possible if she had concerns he mightve had a life threatening condition.  But, whilst I 
appreciate shes  not a medically trained professional  so wouldnt necessarily know  
whether her dog had a life endangering condition  I think  she received advice over the 
phone which didnt  indicate an emergency situation. I can see from the notes the advisor told 
her she could get advice over the phone any time during the night if she needed if anything 
changed. So based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Red Sands  has treated Miss D 
unfairly in this case or acted outside  its policy terms. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918093