K822xcomplaint
Mr J is unhappy with the increases on his home insurance policy premiums, held with Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva).
The policy was sold by Bank A. The policy was underwritten by two insurers,  but Aviva,  as 
the principle underwriter, is responsible  for answering Mr Js concerns about  the increases  in 
his premiums.
background 
Mr J took out a home insurance underwritten by Aviva  when  he took out a mortgage with 
Bank A.
Mr Js home  insurance was called Homecover Plus  and provided buildings  and contents 
insurance including cover for accidental damage.
The Homecover Plus policy was a block policy and was index-linked. 
A block policy is where an underwriter creates an insurance policy  for a group of 
consumers. In this case  Aviva created a home insurance policy  for Bank  A to offer its 
consumers taking out mortgages. The policy covered the same things for all consumers, for 
example accidental damage  to contents,  and the cover couldnt  be amended or changed by 
consumers.
In this case, a home insurance policy that is index linked, meant the amount it covered went  
up and down over time alongside an index that tracked the change  in the cost of rebuilding 
houses.
The earliest known  premium available shows Mr Js policy cost around £350 for the year 
(excluding Insurance Premium Tax  IPT) in 2001.
Mr J paid for the policy on a monthly  basis, but it automatically renewed each year. 
Mr J didnt speak with Bank A or Aviva  about  the cost of the insurance at renewal and it just 
renewed automatically. The policys cost increased over the years. In 2017, Mr Js annual 
premium was around £930 (including  IPT).
The Homecover Plus home insurance  policy  was withdrawn from the market   meaning 
Mr Js policy  wasnt  going to renew in 2018.  Mr J received  a letter  informing him of this and 
that he needed to look for alternative  cover. Mr J discovered he could obtain an alternative 
home insurance policy for considerably  cheaper.  Mr J obtained a quote  for £120 for the year. 
Because of the difference in price  between the two policies, Mr J complained  to Bank  A. He 
considered he had been treated unfairly and had been overcharged for 17 years.
Bank A reviewed Mr Js concerns. Broadly summarised, it apologised for not being able to 
locate the Homecover Plus policy and for giving Mr J incorrect information.  It offered some 
compensation for this but said the pricing concerns  Mr J had, needed to be referred and 
answered, by Aviva.  
Unhappy with the response, Mr J referred  the complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN58008722While the complaint was with our service, the complaint was passed to Aviva  and it offered 
to refund some of the cost of the policy. 
It explained that as Mr Js policy was index-linked, the sum insured was adjusted  each year 
to cover the cost of rebuilding the property. The Royal  Institution  of Chartered Surveyors 
calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which Aviva then used to gauge what the likely  
cost to rebuild the property would be and in turn set the price. 
Aviva, having reviewed  the premiums over the years,  explained there were times when 
Mr Js premium increased above  the index-linked rate. So its offer was to work out what  the 
premium would have  been if it had increased  alongside the index and refund the difference  
to Mr J whenever this happened. 
In total it worked  out that it had charged  Mr J an extra £189.78 over the years  so it offered 
to give that back.  And it offered an additional  £89.31 to compensate Mr J for being out of 
pocket (set at 8% simple interest per year until payment is made). This totals  £279.09.
Aviva also offered an additional £100  as compensation for the trouble Mr J had been  
caused. So Avivas  total offer to Mr J came  to £379.09.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas offer was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Mr J disagreed. Given the price he obtained for a new policy he still considered he had been 
overcharged for many years and wants Aviva to pay him the difference.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Mr J fairly throughout the time he held his 
insurance policy.
And here, as Aviva has made  an offer, I need  to consider whether that is enough to put right 
what might  have gone wrong.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr J, so Id like to explain why.
The earliest known  premium for Mr Js policy was around £350  (excluding IPT) in 2001. By 
2017 the insurance was to cost around  £930 (including IPT) for the year.  As Mr Js policy did 
increase in cost over the years   Ive looked to see what happened.
Ref: DRN58008723Mr Js policy  automatically renewed  each year. With automatic renewals there is a chance 
that if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
Mr J didnt engage over the years, but Aviva says the cost increased  due to the type of 
policy Mr J held and not because he wasnt engaging with the renewals each year.
Mr Js policy  was a block policy. This meant  Aviva  grouped together a number  of policy  
holders (in this case those who took out insurance  through Bank  A) and created an 
insurance policy that it provided  to these customers.  
As the policy was created in a block it provided  all the consumers the same level of cover. 
The consumer, if they wanted to take out insurance,  had two options. They could  take 
buildings and contents insurance that also included accidental damage cover - amongst 
other things.  Or they could take buildings insurance  with accidental damage cover  (so no 
contents cover). The policy  Mr J took out was for buildings and contents insurance that also 
included accidental damage cover - the Homecover Plus policy. 
With either of the policies  on offer,  they couldnt be amended. So, for example, the 
accidental damage  cover couldnt be removed,  or the limits  and excesses couldnt be 
changed by consumers. Providing cover this way meant that Aviva didnt have to manually 
underwrite each individual policy  instead,  the policyholders properties were  automatically  
rated using  a buildings sum insured rate and location. The buildings  sum insured rate was 
index-linked.
Home insurance that is index-linked means  that the sums insured and some  of the policy  
limits are adjusted each year to make sure they remain sufficient to cover  the possible costs  
of a claim  such as the full cost of rebuilding a consumers property. 
There are various factors taken into account with the cost of rebuilding  a property,  such as 
the increasing cost of building materials, or cost of labour. The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors (RICS) calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which  Aviva  used to gauge 
what a consumers property is likely  to cost to be rebuilt. In essence  the sums  insured are 
linked to that index  giving the term index-linked.
 
So this means  the renewal cost of an index-linked policy can also be increased to pay for the 
increased level of cover.  If it is deemed that the sum insured needs to go up to reflect  the 
amount it will cost for a property to be rebuilt  then it follows  that the premium  will go up. 
The premium is unlikely  to ever stay static.  
With Mr Js policy,  this is what happened. It increased in most years  as the sums insured 
increased each  year.  Aviva says the increases applied  were in line with the RICSs House 
Rebuilding Cost Index.  
Ref: DRN58008724But Aviva says there were  times when the premium increased above the index-linked  rate 
and because of this it offered to refund the overpayments in any years where this happened.  
Given the type of policy  Mr J had, this seems fair.
I appreciate that Mr J obtained  alternative insurance for a lot less. Given the difference  in 
cost I can see why Mr J is unhappy. But insurance practices have moved  on over the years.  
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers  aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount  over the following years.  Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover   so buildings and contents with or without accidental 
damage, and consumers  can also choose  what limits and excesses they wish to have. But 
the policy he took out with Bank  A was very comprehensive and had a comparatively high 
level of cover.
These things combined, mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly  different  in price. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based  on that perceived risk.
So while Mr J has obtained a policy for far less now, for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think it would  be fair to compare the cost of that recent policy with the policy  taken and held 
for many years with Aviva.
I also am mindful that Aviva had to treat Mr J fairly in respect of the policy she held. And Mr J 
has said he doesnt think he was treated  fairly over the years.
Aviva, throughout the duration Mr J held their policy, wasnt  obligated to either  automatically 
switch Mr J to another policy or tell him about  any alternative products it offered. 
There were new rules  introduced by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority,  in 2017 
that said that insurers should, in the renewal invitation, encourage their customers  to shop 
around if theyve had their policy for a number of years. 
I appreciate that Mr J feels very strongly  that he wasnt treated fairly. And I do understand 
why he feels this way. Businesses treating their customers  fairly is an overarching principle 
that they must have in mind  in all dealing  with consumers. 
But in this case, I think Aviva has treated Mr J fairly. It has treated him the same as any 
other policyholder with the same policy. And in its role as an insurer,  I dont think  it would be 
fair to say Aviva should need to make sure someone (or all of its policyholders) has the 
cheapest policy available.  
Put simply, Mr J took out Avivas policy. It didnt have to make sure Mr J got the best deal 
year on year. Aviva needed to make  sure it treated him fairly in respect of the policy he held 
and not increase the costs unfairly.  
Ref: DRN58008725From what  Ive seen the increases in Mr Js premiums were in accordance with the type of 
policy he had  an index-linked policy that also had set, comprehensive cover  in place. 
There were risk related  reasons for the increases  and the increases  werent  simply because  
Mr J wasnt engaging with his renewal.
And where  there were increases beyond the index-linked increase, Aviva  has offered to 
refund those overpayments  which  seems  fair.
I note Mr J has concerns about  the policy being cancelled. An insurer will often revisit the 
policy books it holds,  and its the insurers own commercial decision as to whether it wishes 
to continue to provide  that insurance policy or not. 
Here, the decision was made by Aviva to no longer offer this type of policy. This wasnt  just 
to Mr J, but to all the consumers that held the policy. As I explained earlier   insurance 
practices have moved on  so there could be a number of reasons why Aviva no longer 
wished to maintain  this type of home insurance. It had been ongoing for a number of years. 
But, importantly, where an insurer wishes to withdraw the insurance, it needs to ensure that 
it informs its customers and provide them with enough time to seek  alternative insurance. 
Having read the letter  Mr J has provided   I can see it says the policy  is no longer available  
and it was also issued  prior to Mr Js March  renewal date - giving him enough time to seek 
alternative arrangements. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mr Js home  insurance policy is fair.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited, should Mr J accept the decision,  to update the 
compensation amount to reflect the additional  time Mr J has been out of pocket.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to 
Mr J is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800872