K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains, via his loss assessor,  that International Insurance Company  of Hannover
SE (IICH) has unfairly rejected his claim for buildings  and contents damage  by incorrectly 
seeking to apply an exclusion within the policy in order to avoid liability.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my Provisional  Decision, a copy is attached. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ms water supply  was turned off by the water company for repairs.  
When it came back on water overflowed  from a tap Mrs M had left on. IICH refused to pay 
their claim relying on an exclusion clause in the policy to do with taps being left on.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
Mr Ms loss assessor said the tap wasnt left on, but opened  and so the exclusion clause 
didnt apply. He said that in any event  the exclusion was significant  and IICH shouldve  
brought it to Mr Ms attention within the Key Facts document. 
IICH said by leaving the tap on, or opened, water would flow when the supply was restored 
and so the exclusion applied. IICH said the prominence or otherwise of its exclusion clauses 
was a matter for the broker who sold the policy to Mr M.
I said it was splitting hairs to say theres  a difference between  leaving a tap on, or opened as 
in either  event there would be an immediate flow of water  in Mr Ms home when the water 
supply was restored.  This combined with the lack of overflow on the wash basin meant  that 
an escape of water was likely and that damage would follow. 
Mr Ms loss assessor said he wasnt splitting hairs and the crucial difference between leaving 
a tap on, or open is based on two legal principles  concerning the requirement for a 'strict 
application' by an insurer of an exclusion.  And the requirement to interpret  an exclusion 
clause that is ambiguous  against the party  that has created it. He said the application of the 
clause would be clear  in 99% of such losses as this would involve a tap being left on with 
water flowing.
I said I thought that the exclusion clause had been  applied correctly by IICH. Mr Ms policy 
requires him to take all reasonable  care to prevent damage occurring, and despite their 
genuine mistake  with the tap, I didnt think that all reasonable care had been  taken. I invited  
Mr Ms loss assessor to give details of another claim to which he had referred.
Mr Ms loss assessor responded that reasonable care  requirements within  insurance  
policies had been interpreted by our service as requiring insurers to demonstrate  
recklessness, meaning an insurer needs  to show that the insured was aware of a particular 
risk and that they either took that risk anyway, or knowing of the risk, took no steps to 
prevent loss. He said this clearly wasnt the case with Mr and Mrs M.
I said it was Mr Ms brokers responsibility to bring the existence of the exclusion clause to 
his attention. I said all of the insurance documents were headed with the brokers name and 
it stated it would handle  all complaints about  the sale of the policy. I didnt  make  a decision 
about whether  or not the broker had met that responsibility.
Ref: DRN52723692Mr Ms loss assessor responded that Mr Ms broker had confirmed that the policy wording is 
theirs, but that it was approved by IICH. He shared  a letter from the broker saying IICH had 
agreed to deal with the claim so long as they were reimbursed by the broker.  He said this 
was a bizarre situation. He said IICH cant put responsibility for the policy  wording onto the 
broker and then impose its own interpretation  of the words used.
IICH agreed with the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that
Mr Ms complaint should not be upheld, and for the reasons  set out in my provisional 
decision. However, Im grateful to Mr Ms loss assessor for the detailed submissions he 
made on his clients  behalf.  Because we decide  each case  on its merits its unlikely the case 
to which  he has alluded  would have much bearing  on my decision and so I havent  asked  
him to overcome the difficulties hes described in obtaining details of the case.
I remain of the view that the exclusion  clause  has been applied literally  and I dont  consider  
that on and opened have entirely  different meanings in the context of what  has happened  
here. I think  the risk of leaving a tap in the open,  or on position  is foreseeable and obvious,  
so I disagree with the alternative view on this from Mr Ms loss adjuster. I dont think the legal 
principles to which he referred, need to be applied here as I dont  think  theres much room 
for ambiguity in what the exclusion clause covers. It follows from this that I consider that IICH 
has fairly declined  the claim based on the correct  application  of the exclusion clause. 
This means,  to use Mr Ms loss assessors  terminology, that I dont think  that IICH has 
unreasonably stretched  the wording of the exclusion clause in order  to disallow Mr Ms claim. 
He states correctly that in most  cases the clause will avoid an insurers liability when a tap 
has been left running.  I agree, but I dont think the consequences of leaving a tap open are 
any different and are certainly foreseeable and so I dont  think Mr and Mrs M can say that 
their actions fall outside of the exclusion clause.
Mr Ms loss assessor said our service  requires insurers to show  that a customer acted 
recklessly in order to apply the reasonable care requirement within  insurance  policies.  We 
do generally place  a high bar around  the decline  of claims by insurers due to lack of 
reasonable care, however  the principal  reason  for the decline of Mr Ms claim concerns the 
insurers interpretation of the wording of the policy and its applicability  to Mr Ms situation. 
I dont think its bizarre for an insurer to say it will meet a claim if the broker  reimburses them. 
It isnt uncommon  for an insurer to seek an indemnity from a third party to protect it from 
losses. I take Mr Ms loss assessors point  about the apparent  anomaly of the broker  wording 
the policy and IICH interpreting it. Im not party to the contractual relationship between the 
broker and IICH, or any disagreement about the policy  they may have, other than concerning  
this clause, but its clear  from the policy documents that IICH is the insurer  and underwriter 
of the policy, and will consequently face liability for any claims arising. Its common practice  
for underwriters to decide claims  and its reasonable for IICH to interpret the terms of the 
policy when a claim arises, as it has in this case.
IICH has used its authority under the policy to decline the claim. Unfortunately  for Mr M his 
broker doesnt agree with IICHs interpretation of the exclusion clause but wont  indemnify 
IICH against his claim.  I remain  of the view that IICH isnt responsible  for the sale of the 
Ref: DRN52723693policy to Mr M. It remains open to Mr M to bring a complaint  to our service about  his broker,  
so long as it isnt out of time.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M for their loss, but I dont think it would be fair to ignore the 
terms of their policy in this situation. If Mr and Mrs M reject this final decision it wont  become 
legally binding and all options  remain open  to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5272369