K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a mortgage broker working  for Mortgage Solutions, a trading name  of 
Milecross Financial Solutions  Ltd, which is an appointed representative of Openwork 
Limited. 
Mr M says the broker lied about information he provided in connection with a mortgage 
application. As a result,  his mortgage  offer was withdrawn, and the lender recorded  an entry 
against him on a fraud prevention database.
background
In late 2018, Mr M approached the broker for mortgage advice for a new property purchase. 
He says he knew the broker personally  and had discussed getting  a mortgage with him two 
years earlier  but hadnt gone ahead because he had been made bankrupt  in 
November 2012  (and discharged a year later), and at that time the bankruptcy  was still 
showing on his credit record. 
In January 2019, the broker recommended a mortgage and went ahead with an application 
on Mr Ms behalf. Mr Ms earlier  bankruptcy wasnt mentioned on the application. The lender 
said it would  grant the mortgage and issued an offer.
Shortly before completion, the lender withdrew  the offer. It said it did so because of Mr Ms 
2012 bankruptcy. Mr M tried to get a mortgage elsewhere but couldnt. He then found that 
the lender had made an entry against his name  on a fraud  prevention database for 
application fraud, on the basis  that he hadnt declared the bankruptcy  in his application.
Mr M said the broker was to blame  for what had happened  because he knew about the 
bankruptcy. He complained.
Openwork said there was no evidence on its records to show  that the broker knew about 
Mr Ms discharged bankruptcy. So it concluded the broker had done nothing  wrong.  
Our investigator found that Mr M and the broker had conflicting recollections but, on balance, 
he concluded that the evidence didnt support what Mr M had said. He didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr M didnt  accept that. He thought the investigator had missed key evidence  and there  
were inconsistencies  in what the broker had provided. He also said he wanted  a face-to-face 
meeting with the ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I note that Mr M has asked for a hearing.  He has said only that the seriousness of 
his complaint merits a hearing and, despite requests  from our investigator for more 
information, he hasnt  given any other  reasons for wanting one.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, and it is rare that a hearing  is necessary. We 
make our own enquiries of both parties  and ask for information if we need  it. Having 
Ref: DRN55913912considered the file, Im satisfied that I can decide this complaint fairly  without  the need for 
either a hearing  or a discussion with Mr M. He has made his case on paper clearly and has 
had the opportunity to make final submissions for me to consider.
Turning now to the complaint, the brokers duty was to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
he gave Mr M advice  about a suitable  mortgage. In doing  that, he should have made sure he 
recorded accurate  information about Mr Ms circumstances. 
Ive looked very carefully at all the documents  and records Mr M and the broker have 
provided, including their exchanges of e-mails  and other messages. There is nothing  in any 
of those about the bankruptcy,  or of an initial  enquiry which Mr M says the broker  made to 
another lender and which didnt proceed because he had had properties repossessed in the 
past.
The initial personal  details capture  form which the broker sent to Mr M for completion, and 
which has been filled in by hand, asked  about Past credit problems.  None are given;  the 
box has been left blank. Mr M says the broker told him on the phone to leave it blank.
The fact find asked Ever declared  bankrupt and has been  answered No. The completed  
mortgage application said the same  thing.
Mr M has pointed  out that the fact find also recorded that it was carried out at the brokers  
office when it was in fact done on the phone.  The broker agrees this was done by phone  and 
says he selected  the wrong  drop-down box on the form for the location of the discussion. I 
accept Mr Ms point  that the broker could have made other  mistakes  as well. 
However, I think it less likely that something  as important to a mortgage application as a past 
bankruptcy would  be wrong. A mortgage broker  particularly an experienced one  is likely 
to know that bankruptcy searches would need  to be carried out and the results given to the 
lender before a mortgage could be drawn down. The broker  in this case  says he did know  
that, and he has been working  in the industry  for more than a decade. Openwork says that 
no concerns similar to Mr Ms have been  put to it about this broker  by either clients  or 
lenders. It also says the lender the broker selected  had a clear policy  of not lending to 
anyone who had been bankrupt in the past  so it made no sense for the broker to have 
recommended that lender if he knew about  Mr Ms bankruptcy.
The broker  had copies  of credit reports which Mr M had sent to him. The first is dated 
October 2018 and lists no previous mortgages  or bankruptcies.  In Mr Ms covering e-mail  to 
the broker, he asked  whether  his credit score would  be good enough for a mortgage and 
whether paying  off a credit card would help. He didnt mention the bankruptcy,  as I might  
have expected given what he has said about  wanting to wait until mid-November 2018  
more than six years after the November 2012 bankruptcy  order   to make a mortgage  
application.
Mr M sent the broker another copy of his credit report in January 2019.  It showed different 
information from the October  2018 one, and Mr M thinks  the brokers failure to act on it 
demonstrates that he is responsible for what happened. That credit  report included  details  of 
a mortgage that was settled in 2017  after having been in arrears for a significant period of 
time.
Ref: DRN55913913The January  2019 report also gave a credit score of excellent  better  than the October 
2018 score  of fair. The broker says he saw that and didnt go through the rest of the report, 
having already  seen  the earlier one. 
I wouldnt necessarily expect a broker to analyse  every page of every  document they 
receive. Here, the broker had already  seen  an earlier copy  of Mr Ms credit report  which 
showed no mortgage arrears or bankruptcy, and a lower overall  credit  score than the one in 
the January report. In the circumstances,  I dont think it was unreasonable  of him to have 
accepted the score  given at the start of the second report  at face value without studying it 
further. 
Mr M says his records of e-mails differ  in some respects from those the broker has provided, 
and that the broker lied about  why he didnt recommend the mortgage  with the lowest  
interest rate. The suitability record  which the brokers records say was sent to Mr M with 
the mortgage illustration, but which Mr M says he didnt  receive   said Mr M did not want  a 
deal with [] bank  due to a previous experience that you had with that provider.  
There is nothing in the copy e-mails Mr M or the broker have  provided  to indicate the broker  
knew about the bankruptcy and either failed to disclose it or told Mr M to lie about  it. So I 
dont think any formatting  differences or missing attachments on printouts help Mr Ms case. 
And Ive seen the results of the brokers mortgage search, as has Mr M. The broker 
recommended the deal with the second  lowest rate. I think  its difficult to see why he might  
have done so for no reason, and a reason is given in the suitability record. 
As well as the various exchanges of messages, there were a number of phone calls between 
Mr M and the broker. There are no recordings of those calls  and there  was no obligation 
on the broker to have made any. Its clear that Mr M and the broker  knew  each  other  in 
part, at least, in a professional capacity because of a certain overlap in their lines of work.  
But, even  if Mr M had mentioned his bankruptcy to the broker  earlier   for example when a 
partner or friend consulted the broker in 2016  I wouldnt  necessarily expect the broker  to 
have remembered it when  advising him months or years later. 
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments,  I dont find the broker at fault for not 
putting Mr Ms past bankruptcy on the mortgage  application. The documents dont reflect 
that, and in my view the exchanges of messages between Mr M and the broker  dont reflect  
that either.  It follows that I find I cant fairly  hold the broker responsible for the withdrawal  of 
the mortgage offer and the entry on the fraud prevention database. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5591391