K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that The Mortgage Business  Plc hasnt agreed  to extend the term of his 
mortgage. He is also unhappy that hes only been contacted by phone during the day, when 
he has asked for calls in the evening. And he says that TMB has given him unfair and 
unreasonable timescales and hasnt explained what other options are available to him to 
avoid repossession of his property.
background 
Mr P had an interest only mortgage  with TMB. The mortgage term expired in early 2018.  
And, as it hadnt received a response to its letters, TMB arranged for a field agent to visit 
Mr P in May 2018.
Mr P met the field agent and discussed  repayment of his mortgage. He contacted TMB after 
the visit to let it know hed given the field agent  details about his income and expenditure. 
But although  Mr P contacted TMB  on a number of further occasions  he didnt hear back.
In October  2018 Mr P wrote to TMB  again. He said that he was able to make monthly 
payments to the mortgage as discussed with the field agent and he couldnt  understand why 
a formal arrangement  wasnt in place yet.
TMB subsequently contacted Mr P. He was told the call was to discuss his circumstances 
and try to establish a solution. He was asked to provide tax calculations  for the last two 
financial years  and a 14 day hold was placed on the account to allow Mr P time to provide 
this information.  The TMB adviser  arranged to call Mr P back  to discuss the mortgage 
further.
After the 14 day hold ended TMB  made  several  attempts  to contact Mr P as it hadnt 
received his tax calculations. But it didnt  hear back from Mr P so it wrote to him on 21 
January 2019.  Its letter said that an acceptable  repayment method for his mortgage  hadnt 
been agreed so it would begin legal action in 15 business days to repossess the property. It 
also explained that it had a range of options to try to support Mr P staying in his home and 
avoid his property  being repossessed but it needed  to discuss his individual  circumstances 
and agree an appropriate and sustainable solution. So it asked Mr P to call TMB 
immediately.
Mr P wrote to TMB on 28 January 2019.  He said in particular that he couldnt understand 
why TMB  required  his tax calculations as hed already demonstrated an ability and 
commitment to pay the mortgage, and had already discussed his income  with the field agent. 
He asked again for a copy of the field agents  report. And he was unhappy that TMB had 
failed to call him back in the evening as he had requested.
TMB didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary:
In order for the Bank to consider a repayment  arrangement its end of term team 
needed to go through  a review with him which would include a financial assessment. 
It appreciated that the details were  provided to the field agent  previously however 
given the time that had elapsed it would need to ensure  that these were up to date;
It couldnt see any evidence of any extension being agreed by TMB;
It could see that the agent Mr P had spoken to in October  2018  had said he would 
call back but couldnt see any evidence that this call had happened.  It apologised for 
Ref: DRN55007342this and paid Mr P £50 for the inconvenience hed experienced. But it went on to say 
that there  had been numerous call attempts by the Bank to discuss Mr Ps 
circumstances since that time;
It confirmed that it was the banks policy that it required 2 years  tax statements for 
the self-employed if it was looking to agree any repayment arrangement;
It had dealt with Mr Ps request for a copy of the field agent report  in response to an 
earlier complaint;
It agreed a 14 day hold to allow time for Mr P to call to discuss  his circumstances and 
options. As a hold was being  applied it was Mr Ps responsibility to contact  the bank 
and no call attempts would be made.
Mr P wasnt  happy with TMBs response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said, in summary:
She felt that TMB should have contacted  Mr P sooner than it did after he met with the 
field agent in May 2018. So she felt TMB should pay Mr P £250  to compensate him 
for the distress and anxiety caused  to him because of the delayed  communication;
Shed  not seen  any evidence to suggest  TMB had made a decision on his request for 
a term extension. TMB had confirmed that a full mortgage review  needed  to be 
completed along with the relevant supporting  information before it could consider a 
term extension  and she felt this was fair and reasonable.  
Mr P doesnt  agree  with our investigators conclusions  and has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr P 
so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr P has raised a large  number of issues. But, although Ive carefully  considered everything 
he has to say, Ive concentrated my decision on those issues  which  I find to be central  to his 
complaint.
As our investigator has explained, when Mr P took out his mortgage with TMB he agreed to 
repay the capital  balance  at the end of the mortgage term. As the mortgage has now ended  
TMB is entitled to seek repayment of the outstanding  balance  from Mr P. And  as Mr P has 
raised his payment history and asked that this should be taken into account  I should stress  
that TMBs entitlement to the outstanding balance would  be the same whatever his payment 
history. 
Having reviewed all the evidence, Im satisfied that TMB tried to get in touch with Mr P when 
the mortgage term ended.  And, although I appreciate that Mr P was at work during the day 
and says he wasnt able to speak to TMB,  I note that TMB has paid Mr P £50 compensation 
in respect of a call that was promised but not made. Im persuaded that this was reasonable 
in the circumstances, given that it was open  to Mr P to contact TMB  himself  during the 
evenings or weekend.
Ref: DRN55007343When TMB  didnt  hear from Mr P it sent a field agent to his home address to speak to him 
face to face. I dont  find it unreasonable  for it to do this in the circumstances, or 
unreasonable that Mr P should  be charged for the visit. But although it received the agents 
report soon after the visit it didnt contact Mr P until some five months later. I agree that this 
delay would have  caused Mr P distress  and anxiety. And, although  I appreciate that Mr P 
doesnt feel that the compensation suggested by our investigator is sufficient, I agree with 
her that £250 compensation  is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says that he gave  all necessary information to the field agent.  So he doesnt 
understand why TMB  wants  to complete a further mortgage review  or that it has asked him 
to supply further information.  But TMB  has explained that its end of term team  would always  
carry out a full mortgage review in these circumstances. And, in any event, given the 
passage of time, Im persuaded  that it is reasonable for TMB  to carry out an up-to-date 
review before reaching a decision on his request. I am also satisfied that it is fair for it to 
request the additional information it requires in order to carry out the review. In particular, 
TMB has explained that it is its policy to request  tax calculations  for the last 2 years  of self-
employment. I dont  find this to be unreasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels that TMB  should  think outside the box.  But TMB is entitled to 
put in place processes to ensure that it treats  all customers fairly.  So I dont find it 
unreasonable that it wants  to follow its processes in Mr Ps case. And, although I appreciate 
that Mr P says that there is confusion  between the role of TMB  and its parent company, Im 
satisfied that TMB  has made it clear that Mr P should speak to its end of term team. I 
suggest that he now does so in order to agree a way forward. 
Mr P has said that he would like TMB to allow him to sell his home, if matters reach that 
stage. And, as our investigator has explained, we would expect a lender to show some  
forbearance in those circumstances. TMB  has previously explained that its policy  in these  
circumstances is to allow two months to market the property and up to six months to sell it, 
with potentially a further six months  allowed after review.  
I am conscious that Mr Ps circumstances and his ability to sell his property  are likely to have 
been impacted  by the current covid-19 pandemic.  So, if a decision is taken that Mr P should 
sell his property, I do require TMB  to treat him sympathetically and in accordance with the 
regulators latest guidance. That guidance includes a bar on taking action, or further action, 
to repossess a property  before 31 October.  Mr P will need to contact TMB to discuss how 
the mortgage is to be repaid, and TMB  will need  to give fair consideration to any proposals 
he might  make.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order The Mortgage  Business Plc to pay 
Mr P £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5500734