K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M says J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams) irresponsibly  lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about a catalogue  shopping  account J D Williams  initially  provided to      
Mrs M in December  2015. Mrs M was initially given  a credit limit of £175. This limit was 
increased 10 times until it eventually reached £2,750.00 in May 2018. Mrs M fell into arrears  
and her account was eventually  sold on in July 2019. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ms complaint and thought the limit increases from the 
fourth one onwards, in May 2016,  shouldnt have been given. J D Williams didnt  respond  
and the complaint was passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could afford  to repay what she was being  lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought it J D Williams unfairly  increased    
Mrs Ms credit limit from May 2016 onwards. As J D Williams didnt respond, I dont know 
what it thinks our adjudicator got wrong.
Ref: DRN59887922Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with     
Mrs M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams 
should have realised that it shouldnt have increased  Mrs Ms credit limit. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  I also think  that this point was reached 
in May 2016.  I say this because:
At this point J D Williams ought  to have realised Mrs M was having difficulty  
managing her money. Mrs M had a low income of £750  a month and J D Williams  
increased her limit to more than this when the credit check  it carried out showed that 
her indebtedness  had increased elsewhere and shed been in arrears  on this account 
too. So J D Williams ought to have realised Mrs M was already struggling to 
sustainably repay what  she owed and that there  was a significant risk increasing her 
credit limit in these circumstances would  lead to her indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably.
I think that Mrs M lost out because J D Williams  continued to increasing Mrs Ms credit limit 
from May 2016 onwards because this unfairly prolonged Mrs Ms indebtedness  by allowing 
her to use credit she couldnt  afford over an extended period of time and the interest being 
added got her into further debt. So J D Williams  should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework the account to ensure that from May 2016 onwards interest is only charged 
on the first £600.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made J D Williams  should contact Mrs M to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If J D Williams considers it appropriate to record negative information on             
Mrs Ms credit file, it should backdate this to May 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs M, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Mrs Ms credit  file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
 
Ref: DRN59887923From what  Ive seen, J D Williams sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third 
party debt purchaser.  So it either  needs to buy the account back  from the third party  and 
make the necessary adjustments,  pay an amount to the third party in order  for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Mrs M an amount to ensure that it fully complies  with this 
direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ms complaint. J D Williams  & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5988792