K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In my provisional decision of 26 February 2019,  a copy of which  I attach to this final decision, 
I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say theyve  nothing to add to my provisional decision.  NatWest says it accepts 
it. So Mr and Mrs Fs complaint has come back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasons for doing so in my provisional  decision.  As Ive mentioned, Mr and Mrs F dont have  
anything to add to that decision and NatWest accepts it. And I havent seen anything else to 
make me think I should change the conclusions I set out in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 26 February 2019, I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54437952COPY OF MY PROVISONAL DECISION OF 26 FEBRUARY 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs F say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage  with NatWest  in 1997 and bought a PPI policy at the same time. 
They paid a monthly  amount  for it. If Mr or Mrs F made a successful accident, sickness  or 
unemployment claim, it wouldve paid a monthly benefit  based  on the proportion of the income  of 
whichever of them was claiming to their joint gross monthly income.
Among other things, Mr and Mrs F have said they dont remember NatWest giving them any detailed 
explanation about the PPI and that they only agreed to buy it because  NatWest recommended  it. 
Theyve said they dont understand why NatWest hasnt upheld their complaint about the sale of this 
PPI policy  when it has upheld  their complaints  about two other  PPI policies.  Theyve also said theyre 
unhappy with how NatWest  has handled  their complaint.
NatWest didnt think it had mis-sold the PPI. But NatWest did accept Mr and Mrs F hadnt been  given 
the level of service  it wouldve expected. It apologised  for this and offered them  compensation of £75 
as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and Mrs F have  accepted this offer,  which I think  was a fair one, so I dont 
need to deal with that issue any further in this decision.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint thought NatWest  had sold them  two PPI 
policies in connection with their 1997  mortgage  one taken  out at the time of the mortgage and the 
other in 2006. He didnt think the first policy was mis-sold.  But he did think  the second policy was mis-
sold because he didnt think Mrs F was eligible for the PPI in 2006.
Mr and Mrs F accepted our adjudicators view but NatWest didnt. So Mr and Mrs Fs complaint has 
been passed  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint. I know this will disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to 
understand why, as things stand at the moment, Ive come to this conclusion.
As Ive mentioned, our adjudicator thought NatWest had sold Mr and Mrs F two PPI policies in 
connection with their 1997  mortgage  one in 1997 and one in 2006. And he only upheld the 2006 
sale. But, based on the information Ive got, I dont think there was a second sale of PPI in 2006. 
When Mr and Mrs F first complained to us, they referred to policies they were sold in 1994, 1997 and 
2010  but not to anything  sold in 2006. Ive got no documentation  to suggest they bought a new PPI 
policy in 2006. And looking  at the notes NatWest has given us of conversations they had with Mr F 
when they were  investigating the complaint, most of the discussion is about  the 1997 sale and theres 
no mention of a new policy sold in 2006.
From information NatWest has given us, it looks as if the benefit amount under                    Mr and 
Mrs Fs original PPI policy was amended twice after it was taken  out, once in 2000 and again  in 2006. 
NatWest says it has no evidence Mr and Mrs F took out a further advance on their mortgage at the 
time of the first policy amendment.  But it says they did take out a further advance  at the beginning  of 
Ref: DRN544379532006. And Mrs F told our adjudicator she remembers taking out a further advance in early  2006 for 
some home  improvement works. 
NatWest has also told us the insurer  under  the PPI policy says it was instructed to amend the policy 
benefit amount at the end of January 2006. NatWest says that, although  the amendment  request 
wouldve been  sent to the insurer from the bank branch, this wouldve been  done on Mr and Mrs Fs 
instructions to ensure  the benefit  amount  matched their new borrowing.
Looking at everything Ive got so far, I think its more likely than not that, in 2006,                 Mr and Mrs 
F amended the benefit amount under their 1997 policy so that it matched their new borrowing. From 
what Ive seen, I dont think they bought  a new policy. And, since I dont think there was a new PPI 
policy taken out in 2006, I dont think there can have been a mis-sale then. And Ive not seen or been 
told anything to suggest NatWest gave                   Mr and Mrs F any advice about the decision  to 
make this amendment or was actively involved in it.
So now I turn to the policy  I think NatWest did sell Mr and Mrs F, in 1997. Like our adjudicator, I dont 
think NatWest  mis-sold this policy. Ill explain  why.
NatWest needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F they had a choice  about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. From  what Ive seen,  I think NatWest did this. I can see their mortgage application 
form says they want PPI for both of them and it sets out a monthly  benefit  amount. I can also see Mr 
F signed a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs F say NatWest recommended the PPI to them but NatWest says it didnt. I havent seen 
any information  to suggest NatWest gave Mr and Mrs F a tailored  recommendation  based on their 
specific circumstances and needs   to buy PPI. And, indeed, it seems that when Mr F was speaking 
to NatWest during its investigation of his and Mrs Fs complaint, he said he didnt remember being 
asked at the time about their personal  circumstances  or existing provisions, such  as savings.  So while 
it may well have encouraged them  to consider  it, I dont  think its likely NatWest recommended  the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs F as being suitable for them.  But it did still have a duty to give them enough clear 
information so they could decide  for themselves,  in an informed way, if the PPI was right for them.
With the information Ive got, I dont know what steps NatWest  took to do this. And it may be that it 
didnt give Mr and Mrs F all the clear information  about the PPI it shouldve.  But that doesnt mean I 
should automatically  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Instead I must think  about  whether, if NatWest 
had given Mr and Mrs F all the clear information it shouldve, there was any reason this wouldve 
stopped them buying the PPI. Based on what Ive seen so far, and taking into account  the policy  
terms and what Mr and Mrs F have told us of their circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve. I 
say this for the following reasons:
When Mr and Mrs F bought the PPI in 1997,  both were eligible for it. And it doesnt look as if 
either of them was affected  by the things  PPI policies dont usually  cover  like known health 
issues or unusual employment arrangements.  So I dont  think there was anything to stop 
them claiming  the full policy  benefit if theyd needed to.
I think the PPI couldve  been of use to Mr and Mrs F. A mortgage is a significant and long-
term financial commitment, and your home is at risk if you fall behind  on your mortgage 
repayments. Although Mr and Mrs F say they both wouldve got good sick pay, if theyd made 
a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay and, potentially, for 
longer than their full sick pay lasted.  While  Mr and Mrs F also say their parents wouldve 
supported them, I dont  think family  help like this is as good  protection  as having  an insurance 
policy to fall back  on, as family members circumstances can change over time.
Although I dont  know how clear NatWest made the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, Mr F 
signed a separate direct debit mandate for it. So I think theyd have known they would be 
paying something for it and theres nothing to make  me think  they couldnt afford the cover.  
Ref: DRN54437954And as they were paying for it monthly, they could cancel  it without further cost if their 
situation changed or they no longer  wanted it.
In conclusion, based on what  Ive seen so far, I dont think Mr and Mrs F have lost out because of 
anything NatWest  may have done wrong  when it sold them this PPI in 1997.  So it follows  theres 
nothing NatWest  needs  to do to put things right.
One final point Id like to mention. When Mr and Mrs F first complained to us, they said they didnt 
understand why NatWest had upheld two other PPI mis-sale complaints but not this one. I cant  
comment on NatWests reasons for upholding Mr and Mrs Fs other complaints. All I can say is that 
we look at each complaint we get based on its particular  facts and circumstances. And, in this case, 
and for the reasons Ive given, my current view is that I dont think  this PPI was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5443795