K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that after setting up their Family SunTrust, Phoenix Wealth  
Services Limited (Phoenix), previously  known as AXA Wealth Services  Limited (AXA) 
withdrew an important  facility of the scheme  - the non-proportionate allocation of investment  
growth facility.
They also complain that AXA has treated  them unfairly by reneging on its July 2016 promise  
to carry out a discretionary ad hoc review. Mr and Mrs P say they have lost out financially 
as a result. Theyre also unhappy with the way that AXA has handled their complaint.
Background
The Family  SunTrust  Scheme  (FST) was a self-invested personal pension  scheme (a 
SIPP) which had been on the market since 2009. It allowed  individual pensions to be 
grouped together and included a facility where investment growth could be re-allocated  
between members pensions on a non-proportionate basis  (the flexibility  option).
The scheme was provided by a part of AXA which was subsequently bought by Phoenix
In late 2015, Mr and Mrs P completed  paperwork to apply for the FST and to vary the terms 
of the FST to apply  the flexibility option.
AXA sent Mr and Mrs Ps adviser  an email  in November 2015,  saying that discussions were  
ongoing with HMRC regarding the FST and some  of the features couldnt  be guaranteed 
going forward, in particular the flexibility option.  It asked that the adviser contact AXA within 
three working days if Mr and Mrs P didnt want to proceed with their FST application.
By February  2016, Mr and Mrs Ps FST had been set up and they had transferred funds into 
it. Their aim was to utilise the flexibility option and for any investment growth to be allocated  
into Mrs Ps name.
In July 2016, AXA made the decision to remove the flexibility option attached to the FST. It 
wrote to Mr and Mrs P and their adviser (as well as other FST investors)  on 2 August 2016 
explaining that under the terms  and conditions of the scheme  it had decided  to withdraw the 
flexibility option with effect from 2 September  2016.
On 28 July 2016, Mr and Mrs P, through their representative, asked for an ad hoc review to 
be completed. This was a discretionary feature of their contract. This review would allow any 
growth made  within the FST from its start date to the review date to be transferred into Mrs 
Ps name.
AXA confirmed to Mr and Mrs Ps adviser via email on 10 August 2016 that this would be 
possible, and all requests received by 2 September 2016 would be honored. However, on 22 
August 2016,  AXA wrote  again explaining that the ad hoc review couldnt be carried  out.
Unhappy with this decision Mr and Mrs Ps adviser complained to AXA on 31 August 2016 
adamant that the review  should go ahead.
On 16 September  2016, AXA responded by explaining that it had given the wrong  
information when  it confirmed the review  could still go ahead.  It said this was due to a 
misunderstanding of the schemes administrators decision and that the scheme 
administrators had decided not to carry out any ad hoc discretionary reviews after the 
Ref: DRN50466092decision was made on 27 July 2016 to remove the flexibility option.
On 30 September  2016, Mr and Mrs Ps adviser  queried the basis  upon which AXA had 
dealt with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. AXA said it had treated this as a non-material 
complaint, but their adviser said this ought to have been  treated as a material  complaint as 
Mr and Mrs P had personally made the complaint, having lost out financially as a direct 
result of AXAs actions.
On 2 November  2016, AXA informed Mr and Mrs Ps adviser  that their complaint  had 
previously been  treated  as a non-material one. On 7 November 2016, AXA issued its final 
response letter, again confirming that it would not be able to carry out the ad hoc review and 
explained its reasons why.
Unhappy with the response Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this Service. They 
questioned whether the flexibility option was removed illegally  - due to another reason such 
as the sale to Phoenix. If so, they wanted it reinstated. They questioned whether AXA knew 
of the plan to withdraw the flexibility option  at the point  Mr and Mrs P had applied for it. They 
also wanted AXA to honour the ad hoc review of their FST.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators. He felt that AXA was entitled to 
withdraw the flexibility option.  He said the product details allowed it to do so. He agreed,  that 
having decided  to withdraw the option, AXA hadnt  acted unreasonably  when  it declined  the 
ad hoc review requests it had already received.
However, he was of the view that while AXAs email of 10 August 2016 hadnt created  an 
entitlement to an ad hoc review AXA had given wrong information to Mr and Mrs P and so 
therefore should pay them £200 for the trouble and upset  this had caused them.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. They said, in summary:
They hadnt seen  the email from AXA to their adviser dated November 2015 where 
AXA had explained HMRC was conducting further enquires of the flexibility  option.
They were unaware that HMRC  had stopped registering these schemes from July 
2015.
They say they are aware  of two clients who have benefitted from the flexibility  option  
being applied  as late as November 2016 and the non-proportionate  allocation of 
growth within their plans.
They had met the deadline within which AXA told them to ask for an ad hoc review.
£200 compensation does not adequately compensate them  for their distress,  
inconvenience and financial  loss.
AXA said in response that:
The scheme administrators  didnt  agree  to any ad hoc discretionary reviews  after the 
decision to remove the flexibility  option  on 27 July 2016. Until to 2 September  2016  
(the 30 day notice period leading up to the removal of the flexibility  option) reviews 
continued to take place where  required by scheme rules,  i.e. those reviews  that were  
undertaken on a non-discretionary basis.
The discretionary reviews were stopped because the scheme administrators made 
the decision to remove the flexibility option. Having done so, it was considered 
incompatible for it to continue to provide discretionary access to the flexibility  option 
through an ad-hoc review.
Ref: DRN50466093The decision to remove the flexibility  option was in line with the terms and conditions  
and the schemes  rules.
It acknowledged that it gave Mr and Mrs P incorrect information about the ad hoc 
review being completed and so accepted to pay Mr and Mrs P £200 to recognise this.
It dealt with this as a non-material complaint as the complaint was only about the 
refusal to undertake  the ad-hoc review and there  was no mention of any mis-selling  
or lack of information that Mr P now alleges.
I issued my provisional findings in August 2020 where I set out why I felt at that stage  the 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. An extract of this is below and forms part of this final 
decision:
The terms and conditions  of the Family SunTrust  scheme state:
[AXA] has the right to decide  that the provisions set out in the Operative provisions in part 3 
of the document [i.e. the provision of the flexibility option] will cease to apply [AXA] can 
exercise this right only if there are changes in, or [our] interpretation changes  of, applicable 
pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice. [AXA]  can 
exercise this right upon giving.30 days written notice so far as practicable to do so.
So, I am satisfied that AXA had the ability to remove the flexibility  option if it met the criteria 
in the terms and conditions. I have next considered whether AXA did indeed meet the criteria  
mentioned above.  In particular, did it change its interpretation of the applicable pension laws 
and regulation. To do this I have looked  at the history of AXAs involvement and dealings  
with the FST.
AXA has provided me with information concerning the development of the FST as well as 
the communications that took place between AXA and HMRC regarding  the flexibility  option. 
I have seen:
The template  letters  from the AXA FST manager  to advisers where  the scheme was 
applied for /or had been taken out. These are dated 2015 and 2016.
The timeline of the development  of the FST scheme, provided by AXA.
Letters between HMRC and the FST team at AXA from May 2015 to July 2015 
discussing the scheme and more specifically  the flexibility  option.
The confidential reports to AXA from legal  counsel regarding the flexibility option.
From this information I can see that:
AXA started to look into the feasibility of launching the product in late 2006. In light of 
HMRC legislation  and after legal advice it launched the FST on a limited basis  in 
March 2008 and launched it fully in February 2009.
Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point in time HMRCs  
view was that the flexibility option was within the rules, but it was noted that HMRC 
provided no guarantees that position  wouldnt  change in the future.
For the next few years, until 2015 the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the 
scheme and despite some changes to pension regulation over these years  AXA 
remained satisfied that HMRC  was content with the scheme and that its flexibility  
option was within  the relevant rules. This included further legal opinion in 2013  
indicating that the environmental  risk in the area of pensions had increased but that 
the underlying  legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA decided  to continue  
operation of the FST unchanged.
Ref: DRN50466094However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the 
pooled growth  in the scheme was allocated  to its members. This appears to have 
been prompted by an increase in pension liberation scams (a type of fraud). AXAs  
response tried to reassure HMRC  about the flexibility option, but HMRC advised that 
it had concerns over the model  being used to allocate growth  and it felt that this could  
be contrary to sections  172 (Assignment of benefits) and/or 172A (Surrender of 
benefits) of the Finance  Act 2004.
Because of these  concerns, HMRC  stopped registering new schemes.
There was a further meeting between AXA and HMRC in September  2015.
HMRC resumed registration of the FST in October 2015. In the same  month  AXA 
issued communications  to advisers  that registration of the FST had resumed but its 
discussions with HMRC  were ongoing  and all features  of the product couldnt be 
guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were invited to withdraw  applications 
from new clients.
Again  in the same month AXA obtained  further  legal opinion  in response to specific 
points HMRC raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September  2015.
This led to AXA writing to HMRC  in October 2015 asking it to withdraw  their 
objections in light of its most recent legal opinion.
There then followed much discussion between  AXA and HMRC.  And AXA again 
sought legal  advice during this period.
In January 2016 AXA issued second  communications to advisers informing them  that 
HMRC continued to investigate elements of the FST and that registration of the new 
schemes was at their own risk.
However, because  of the continued HMRC investigations AXA closed the FST to 
new business in May 2016.
In June 2016 HMRC  advised AXA its investigations were continuing.
In July 2016 AXA obtained  further legal opinion. The finding of this was that the risk 
environment within the area of pension had changed and more notably that HMRC 
continued to investigate the FST position  even  after submission in October 2015 of 
legal opinion  and evidence that supported the flexibility option of the FST.
Later that month the Board  of AXA made  the decision that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue with the interpretation  that disproportionate  allocation  of 
growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it was at that time.
Taking account of this information, Im satisfied  AXA had been carefully considering the 
nature of the flexibility option for some time but that no decision was made to withdraw the 
flexibility option until legal advice was received in July 2016.  AXA also appears to have 
engaged quite heavily with HMRC  over the years to ensure it was being  compliant with 
HMRCs thinking and relevant regulation as well as seeking legal opinion when it felt 
prudent. Up to the point  the decision was made to withdraw the option  I think  it was 
reasonable for AXA to provide the flexibility option  to its clients as it hadnt received any 
opposition from HMRC and all its legal advice was positive.
Given the information above I dont  think this decision  was made quickly  without careful 
consideration. Im satisfied it followed a genuine change in AXAs  interpretation of applicable 
pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice.  And while
I appreciate this happened  around  the same time as the sale to Phoenix was progressing,
I think this was mere coincidence  rather than central  to the decision to withdraw the feature.
I also note that AXA gave notice on 2 August 2016,  which was just over 30 days  before the 
option was officially  withdrawn (on 2 September 2016), as required by the terms and 
conditions. I therefore  dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably  when it withdrew the 
Ref: DRN50466095flexibility option and it acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it did so.
Mr and Mrs P have said they didnt  see the email AXA sent their adviser in November 2015.  
However, I have seen a copy of this email and am satisfied it was correctly  addressed to the 
adviser. This email  states:
Important Note: As you may be aware,  Family SunTrust applications have been impacted by 
delays we [AXA] have  experienced  with the HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC)  scheme  
registration process. We [AXA] have been  working  with HMRC on a resolution  and they have 
agreed to register the schemes that were  awaiting registration an also register  further 
schemes that we [AXA] submit to them.
Although HMRC has agreed to register these schemes, our [AXA]  discussions  with them  are 
still ongoing and until they have concluded  we [AXA] cannot guarantee that all the current 
features of the product  will remain in the future. In particular, the allocation of investment 
growth feature,  which is just one of a number  of features of Family SunTrust, is something 
we [AXA]  continue to discuss with HMRC.
Therefore, if you dont wish us [AXA] to progress the application at this point in time please  
contact us [AXA] within three working  days of the date of this email. If we [AXA]  do not hear 
from you, we [AXA]  will assume you are happy for us [AXA]  to proceed.
I think this makes it clear that there  were ongoing discussions between  HMRC  and that 
some features couldnt be guaranteed going forward,  in particular the flexibility  option. I cant 
know exactly what information Mr and Mrs Ps adviser passed on. However, given  that
Mr and Mrs P were  acting through their adviser I think  AXA took active steps to make
Mr and Mrs P aware that the flexibility option  couldnt be guaranteed going  forward. I think  
AXA fairly gave  Mr and Mrs P the opportunity  to withdraw their application  for the FST if the 
flexibility option was of critical importance to them.
Having decided to remove the flexibility option  I dont  think AXA acted unfairly  by not 
acceding to requests  to carry out discretionary reviews to facilitate the non-proportionate 
allocation of growth, given HMRCs concerns about  it. However, I do think that being given 
the wrong information about the ad hoc review wasnt  ideal and caused  frustration to
Mr and Mrs P. I appreciate this was a mistake and it isnt unreasonable that AXAs  
misunderstanding was due to delays in communicating the scheme administrators decision. 
But I do think this mistake  should  be recognised by AXA in the form of the £200 that it has 
already agreed  to award. In my view this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, I agree that it ought  to have been clear  to AXA from the outset that Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint was about the removal of the flexibility option and the financial impact this would 
have on them. I think AXA took marginally  longer to issue its final response than it shouldve. 
However, given that AXA was actively responding to the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs P 
during this period, I do not consider it appropriate  to make any further award.
While both parties confirmed receiving the provisional decision  neither party  provided any 
further comments.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50466096As neither party provided further information or made any additional comments, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (Phoenix), previously known as AXA Wealth Services 
Limited (AXA) should pay Mr and Mrs P £200  in recognition of the fact it gave them  wrong 
information about their ad hoc review.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5046609