K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about information reported  to credit  reference agencies  by The Royal  Bank 
of Scotland Plc (RBS) in respect of his mortgage account.
background
Mr K has a mortgage with RBS and due to the arrears on the account RBS obtained a 
suspended possession order (SPO) in January 2014. The SPO  ordered Mr K to pay £467.18  
a month.
Mr K says that despite paying £500  a month  (so paying more  than the SPO  amount)  his 
credit reference file shows him as having  late payments on his mortgage, which has stopped 
him obtaining credit elsewhere.
When Mr K complained about this in 2017 RBS said it would amend the data it reports  to the 
credit reference agencies to show he was in an arrangement to pay (ATP). Unfortunately  
because thats  not how the account  should  be reported (as Mr K is in arrears and under an 
SPO) RBS has to manually amend the information  each month.
In 2018 Mr K complained again  as the information  hadnt been updated and his account  was 
showing as in arrears.  RBS said it would update the information, but explained that the  
excess and the length of time your account  remained in excess  is still visible behind the 
arrangement reported and is available  to see for anyone  viewing your credit file for lending. 
It went on to say that it would monitor the account, but if any late payment markers were 
reported again than Mr K should phone it on the number provided.
Our investigator thought this was fair, but also asked RBS to pay £100  compensation as he 
felt Mr K had a poor customer experience when hed complained. RBS agreed but Mr K 
didnt, so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr K wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party. 
I can only deal with the complaint that was made  to - and investigated by - the business. I 
cant look at any new points that have subsequently been raised. For that reason I cant  
comment on Mr Ks email  saying hed tried to negotiate a remortgage with RBS but it had 
refused to do so, which Mr K believes was a deliberate act as he is on a higher interest rate 
but is a low risk customer. If Mr K would like to raise that as a new complaint (not relating to 
his credit file information, but as an entirely  separate matter of him not being able to obtain  a 
new rate) then he should contact our investigator.
Ref: DRN52385992I can see Mr K feels very strongly about  this, and thats not surprising. But Im afraid I have 
to tell Mr K that Im satisfied RBS doesnt  need to do anything further or pay him any more  
compensation than its already offered.
RBS should continue to report arrears because  Mr K hasnt paid all of his arrears off. Like all 
lenders, RBS should report accurate  information  about how borrowers conduct their 
accounts. Mr K has pointed out that hes paid about £33 more each month than the court  
ordered him to. What  hes got in return for paying this is that RBS hasnt had the need to 
enforce the SPO  it was given, and his arrears have reduced.  But paying that extra  amount  
hasnt yet wiped off all the arrears.
Until Mr K has paid off the full amount of his arrears, RBS should  still report his mortgage  
account as being in arrears. If Mr K wishes to pay off more  each  month, and reduce his 
arrears more quickly, hes free to contact RBS and ask about doing  this.
I understand in 2017 RBS agreed to amend the reporting to indicate Mr K was in an ATP 
rather than in arrears. Thats not something  I would order RBS to do as it should be reporting  
the arrears in full, so it would be entirely  inappropriate for me to uphold a complaint that RBS 
hasnt been making  those  amendments.  RBS has offered  a fair resolution in that it will 
monitor Mr Ks account, but if any month is missed then Mr K should phone it on the number 
provided. Whilst I understand Mr K feels he shouldnt have to do so, it would  be highly 
inappropriate for me to order (and therefore legally bind) RBS to do something it  quite  
simply  didnt have  to offer to do in the first place.
Whats preventing Mr K from changing  his mortgage, or borrowing more  money for 
consumer spending,  is that other lenders are put off by his adverse credit  file. This shows 
other lenders that Mr K didnt pay his mortgage  and still has arrears. Lenders and other 
account providers  check credit files to help them decide whether  or not they want to do 
business with a customer. Its their choice whether to lend or not.
Mr K says he believes hes a low risk because hes paid on time since he was ordered to do 
so by the court. But thats not the case as Mr K still has mortgage arrears,  and until those 
are repaid  in full Mr K wouldnt be classed as low risk, and his credit file needs to reflect that. 
Consumers dont have  a right to unlimited credit regardless of what other debts  they have. 
All lenders can choose whether or not to lend. When making that decision,  theyre  likely to 
take into account any evidence that a customer hasnt paid another  lender what  they owe. 
Its not RBSs fault if other lenders have decided not to lend to Mr K because he still has 
mortgage arrears which  he hasnt paid off. 
RBS agreed to pay £100 for the poor customer service (relating to the contact when Mr K 
complained in 2018) and thats  a fair offer.  Mr K has recently referred to the offer as being 
£150 but I can only see that £100  was offered as part of our complaint process  and thats the 
amount I consider  fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  but only insofar as I consider  the offer of £100 is fair and reasonable. 
In full and final settlement  I order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay £100  to Mr K.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
Ref: DRN52385993of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my 
decision before  9 January 2020. 
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5238599