K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a mortgage. Miss H says The Co-operative  Bank  Plc, Britannia  at the time, mis-
sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss H says she cant remember  what  happened  at the time of sale  I think this is 
understandable considering the PPI was sold around 22 years  ago. So Ive carefully 
considered all the evidence available and from what Ive seen I think The Co-op made  it 
clear that Miss H didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. I say this 
having seen a copy of her mortgage application which  included  a section for PPI. In this 
there were equally prominent  yes and no options to state  whether Miss H was interested in 
the cover  and wanted to complete a separate PPI application form  and the yes box has 
been ticked. Ive also seen a copy of the separate  PPI application  form and it shows  that 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover was selected and the amount of monthly 
benefit required was entered in the form. Miss H signed this application  form so I think  it 
reflected what she wanted at the time. 
The Co-op didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss H got the information  she needed to decide  if 
it was right for her. 
Miss H says she wasnt given any information about the cost of the policy at the time of sale. 
Ive seen a copy  of a welcome letter that was sent after the policy was set up and this 
outlined the cost of the first premium and the monthly cost of the policy  going forward. But I 
agree this information wasnt clear at the time Miss H chose to take out the cover. However  I 
dont think Miss H wouldve made a different decision about  taking out the cover had she 
been given the full cost information earlier. I say this because  the unemployment cover was 
free for the first 12 months and the accident  and sickness cover costed £4.15 per month.  
Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid out £139 per month for up to 12 months  in 
the event Miss H was suddenly unable to work.  
Miss H says she was entitled  to redundancy pay and up to 12 months worth of sick pay from 
her employer at the time. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of her redundancy and sick 
pay, so these funds  couldve been used for other  expenses. And Miss H had other financial 
commitments at the time with a limited  amount  of savings. Even though  she says her family 
couldve supported  her, help from others  cant always be relied upon as their circumstances 
can also change over time. So as Miss H was solely responsible  for her mortgage 
repayments I think the PPI wouldve been useful for her and I dont think better information 
about the cost of the PPI wouldve put her off taking  it out. I also think that if Miss H didnt 
think the PPI was good value for money she wouldve cancelled it when she received  the 
welcome letter with the initial costs set out.  
Ref: DRN57259262Miss H says that as she was in secure  employment  and had sufficient sick pay she didnt 
need the PPI. But this was a non-advised sale, so The Co-op didnt need to assess  her 
circumstances and make a recommendation about  whether the policy  was suitable  for her. 
This means  it was up to Miss H to decide  if she felt like she needed the policy.  The PPI 
section of the mortgage application clearly reads:
For peace of mind this cover provides  you against  risk of Accident, Sickness  or 
Unemployment. Should the unexpected happen  the monthly benefit will provide you with the 
ability to pay your mortgage
As explained above, the yes box was ticked indicating Miss H wanted this type of cover  and 
a separate PPI application form was completed. And so I think Miss H knew  what  the policy  
was designed  to cover and she chose  to take it out, knowing what  benefits she had from her 
employer at the time.
Its also possible some  of the other information The Co-op gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
So overall I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. This means The Co-op doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. But The Co-op will pay back some  of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss H because: 
The Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  The Co-op didnt  tell 
Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, The Co-op has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
The Co-op has to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. The Co-op  should also pay back  to Miss H any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
The Co-op should pay back to Miss H the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. The Co-op should 
also pay Miss H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
Ref: DRN57259263But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5725926