K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C says Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) gave  her unsuitable advice about switching her 
personal pension  fund into a Self-invested Personal Pension with unregulated investments, 
which caused her to suffer a loss.
background
In April 2014 Mrs C took a phone call which led to her agreeing  to meet  up with an adviser  to 
discuss her personal pension. Mrs C has told us that the adviser who attended her home 
said he worked for Abana.  Shes given us a copy of the business  card and referral material 
he left with her, which has Abanas details on it.
Mrs C was persuaded by the advisor to switch her fund with Scottish Life to a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  with Avalon Investment Services  Limited  (Avalon). She was given 
paperwork to sign in order to complete  the transaction  during  the same  meeting at her home.
Mrs C transferred around £33,000  into the SIPP and this was invested in two unregulated 
funds through  a business called ePortfolio Solutions . These were the Brighton SPC - Kijani  
Commodity Fund (Kijani) and the Swiss  Asset Micro Assist Inc Fund (SAMAIF).
In June 2015 she began to think there might be problems with her SIPP arrangements. For 
example, she tried to access a tax-free cash sum but kept hitting barriers. And in August 
2015 she was informed by Avalon that one of her funds had been suspended and that 
requests from customers for redemption  of other funds within the same  portfolio were on 
hold while the platform administrator was trying resolve the issue with the Kijani  fund.
 
I understand the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  became  involved with Abana when it 
became aware  the firm may have  been  operating in the UK outside  of its permissions. At the 
relevant time, Abana was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under the 
insurance mediation directive (IMD). However,  it appeared  to be providing services  in the 
UK, namely  giving advice  and making  arrangements in relation to pensions, without the 
required top-up  permissions it required from the FCA.
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether the advice had been  suitable, and if 
not, to assess any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy service specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out this review.
In October  2015 Mrs C was asked  by the consultancy to complete a questionnaire related to 
the switch of her personal pension. Following the submission of her information, it wrote to 
her on 2 February 2016 with its conclusions. It said the advice shed been given to switch to 
the SIPP and invest in unregulated funds had been unsuitable. And it set out what steps 
Abana should take to put her back in the position she wouldve been  in had the switch of her 
pension not taken place.
Abana wrote to Mrs C about the outcome of the review on 15 February 2016. It noted that 
the individual it regarded as being responsible  for providing her with services related to her 
pension was a UK based advisor  whom  Ill refer to in this decision as Mr F. It said it would 
pay her redress.  And that it expected final calculations to be available  by March 2016.
Ref: DRN52597302By May 2016  thered  been no substantive progress and so Mrs C brought  her complaint to 
this Service. She had various concerns  about  what had happened. Shed  been given poor 
advice and she wanted her pension funds  back with interest. She also wanted compensation 
for the trouble and upset  shed been through.
Initially, Abana confirmed  Mrs C had accepted the offer of redress detailed  in the review 
carried out by the regulatory compliance consultancy. It said the matter was being  dealt with 
by its professional indemnity insurer. But later it changed its position and argued  it wasnt  
responsible for the advice Mrs C received, so it wouldnt  pay her compensation.
Abana submits  that the individuals  involved in this transaction with Mrs C werent its 
appointed representatives (ARs), or its agents. It says those  responsible had entered  into 
business arrangements  with Avalon  without  its approval. So Abana says its not responsible  
for the acts or omissions in this case and challenged our jurisdiction  to consider Mrs Cs 
complaint against  it.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mrs Cs complaint. And after considering  
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters  raised by 
Abana in responding  to the investigators opinion.
Abana has said Avalon, as the SIPP provider, was regulated and allegedly  accepted 
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. It says Avalon had a responsibility to carry  out due diligence.
Further, Abana suggests the problems identified in Mrs Cs case  also rest at the door of 
another SIPP provider which it says had a relationship with Mr F. It also cites a fund 
management company  as having  responsibility. And it goes on to question  actions  taken by 
the FCA in 2015 which  it says couldve had a material impact on the losses Mrs C and 
others suffered.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated firms  and 
individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties  here. Mrs C has 
brought her complaint  against Abana and thats what  I need to address.
Abana has also said that in a meeting it held with another SIPP provider and Mr F in May 
2013, it was told some SIPP products were insurance based and therefore compliant under 
IMD permissions. Its not clear to me if Abana is saying it was misled by other  parties into 
thinking it could  carry on the activities that are the subject  of this complaint. Whatever the 
case, as a regulated firm its responsible  for its own regulatory compliance  and its own acts 
and omissions.
Abana hasnt  provided much information and evidence from the time of the events 
complained about.  But it has offered arguments in support of its position at various  points 
over the past few years. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the arguments  it has 
posed. Thats deliberate; ours is an informal  service  for resolving disputes between  financial 
businesses and their customers. While I have taken account and considered all of Abanas 
submissions, Ive concentrated my findings  on what I think  is relevant and at the heart of this 
complaint.
So, Ill now turn to whether this Service has jurisdiction in this case.
Ref: DRN52597303my findings
the parties involved in this case
Before I decide  whether  this Service has jurisdiction to consider Mrs Cs complaint against 
Abana, I thought it would be helpful  to set out some of what  we know about  the parties who 
may have  been  involved  in the transaction leading to this complaint.
There were several entities and individuals who could potentially  have been  involved, and 
the relationships  between  them arent entirely  clear. Some  information is missing. Some 
firms no longer exist as a going concern. So, in this regard, and given the passage  of time, 
the case is difficult to get to the bottom  of.
However, weve been provided  with some helpful  documents by the organisation which took 
on the administration of Mrs Cs SIPP scheme. And these documents  have been used to 
help us build  a picture of the key relationships  between the various parties.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the IMD on a branch passport. So, at the relevant  time,  it was an EEA authorised firm. 
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register)).
Mr F
Mr F is a central figure in this complaint. As Ill set out later in this decision,  it is Mr F who 
appears to have arranged for Mrs Cs pension to be switched to the SIPP with Avalon (and 
to invest in the unregulated Kijani and SAMAIF  funds). One of the matters  I will need to 
establish is whether  in conducting those activities, Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana 
(either as its AR or its agent).
Mr F isnt listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana. However, this isnt a requirement 
under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  so its not 
determinative of whether  or not he was acting as Abanas AR. I will examine the relationship 
between Abana and Mr F in more detail below.
New Beginnings  (Financial Solutions)  Limited (New Beginnings)
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana  from 11 March  2014 until 
6 February 2015.  Mr F was a minority shareholder  of this firm.
Ref: DRN52597304We have been  provided with a copy of the AR agreement between  Abana and New 
Beginnings which is dated 7 March 2014. The recitals of the agreement set out the following:
WHEREAS:
(1)The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  
with limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  
and authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
(2)The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  
shall  authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  
between  the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We were not provided with a copy of the Schedule  referred to in the agreement. 
[Mr F] Associates
[Mr F] Associates isnt a legal entity or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading 
name Mr F began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain  point in time.
At the end of May 2014, Mr F told Avalon that he was in the process of getting  his own FCA 
authorisation (we understand he had previously been submitting business to Avalon using 
Abanas authorisation number). He made an application for new terms of business  and this 
was acknowledged  by Avalon, which noted internally that he was leaving Abana.
In June 2014 Mr F and Avalon were  trying to finalise the arrangements for Mr F to be 
submitting business  to them on his own account. For example, the parties  discussed  
ensuring appropriate letters of authority for Mr Fs clients were in place and were in the 
process of agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
Mr Fs FCA authorisation hadnt  been received by July 2014, so he agreed with Avalon  that 
in the interim, business would be conducted through New Beginnings, with [Mr F] Associates 
acting as part of that network.
Ref: DRN52597305Mr W
Mr W was the advisor who met with Mrs C and gave her the advice to switch her pension pot 
to a SIPP with Avalon.  Like Mr F, he was also a minority shareholder  of New Beginnings. 
Given testimony weve had from other  consumers  with complaints against Abana, it seems  
likely Mr W also had a role working for [Mr F] Associates during 2014. Mr W did not have his 
own FCA authorisation.
Avalon Investment Services  Limited
Avalon was a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA. Amongst 
other activities, it was authorised to arrange deals  in investments and to establish,  operate  
and wind up a pension  scheme. Mrs C is unhappy about the SIPP  arrangements,  including  
the unregulated  investments it facilitated.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. I 
understand the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently  considering 
claims against the firm (see https://www.fscs.org.uk/failed-firms/avalon/).
can our Service consider  Mrs Cs complaint against Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint (bolding  is my emphasis) and sets out that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mrs C complains done in the carrying on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana responsible  for those acts?
were the acts Mrs C complained  about done  in carrying on a regulated  activity?
Mrs C has complained about Abanas role in her receiving unsuitable pension and 
investment advice. And the subsequent arrangements made on her behalf to switch  her 
personal pension  to a SIPP with Avalon and make  investments in the Kijani  and SAMAIF  
funds. Mrs C says she hasnt been  compensated despite Abana previously agreeing to 
provide redress.
Ref: DRN52597306Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes  any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means  specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity.
Mrs Cs Scottish  Life pension  plan had been  in her name since  the late 1990s.  Shes  told us 
she wasnt actively looking to change her arrangements. It appears she only took action after 
being cold called in April 2014. Mrs C says Mr W gave  her the impression he worked for 
Abana and the business card and other  materials he left her confirmed this.
Weve not been provided  with a fact find, risk appetite assessment, suitability report  or 
recommendation letter  all we have is the testimony from Mrs C about  what Mr W told her 
when he visited her home. 
Nevertheless, I think its highly unlikely Mrs C wouldve embarked on a high-risk  investment 
strategy using her only retirement funds without this course of action being  recommended to 
her. Shed been invested in the Scottish Life pension for many years, and it seems more  
likely than not she wouldve received advice that motivated her to make the switch.
So, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr W did provide advice  to Mrs C to switch out of her 
personal pension  scheme  and invest  in a SIPP with Avalon.  And I believe that he told Mrs C 
that the unregulated investments would perform better than her Scottish  Life pension plan 
which is why she was persuaded to make the switch.
In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
Ref: DRN52597307The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
Mr F completed Mrs Cs application to open  a SIPP using  Abanas FCA authorisation details. 
He transmitted the necessary applications. In doing  so, he led Avalon to believe that he was 
introducing the application  with Abanas authority.  
PERG 12.3 makes it clear that the circumstances in which rights under  a personal pension  
scheme may be bought or sold include  when  the member first joins the scheme and 
acquires all the rights that the scheme  provides to its members (since  he has bought  those 
rights). 
Mr F authorised the paperwork submitted to Avalon  which facilitated Mrs C opening the 
Avalon SIPP  and the investment in the unregulated funds. Im satisfied that this constitutes 
the regulated  activity  of arranging the pension scheme with Avalon. And, Im satisfied that 
the actions of Mr F constitute  making  arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment  under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Abana says its taken  advice about the regulations. It asserts  that it can rely on certain  
exclusions in the RAO  (which, if applicable,  would bring the activities  outside  the scope of 
Article 25). For example, it says that the exclusion at Article  29 applies because  Mr F was an 
unauthorised arranger.
However, for the exclusion at article 29 to apply, its necessary that, in return for making the 
arrangements, Mr F didnt receive  from any person - other than Mrs C  payment or other 
reward arising out of their making the arrangements. But we know from what Avalon has told 
us it was making commission payments to Abana and that Mr F received payment via this 
route. And Im satisfied he wouldve received payment for arranging Mrs Cs SIPP. So, the 
exclusion at article 29 does not apply.
Abana also refers  to the exclusion set out at article 33 and says that an independent fund 
manager was appointed  to manage  the assets of the SIPP.  I disagree.  Ive seen no evidence  
that Mr F or Avalon were  introducing Mrs C to an appropriate party  under this provision, and 
where any said party was to provide independent advice or the independent  exercise of 
discretion in relation to investments generally or in relation to any class of investments  to 
which the arrangements relate. So, the exclusion at article  33 does not apply. 
Ref: DRN52597308Im satisfied that this complaint involves regulated activities  giving advice on switching  from 
a personal pension to a SIPP with Avalon and investing in unregulated funds (Mr W) and 
making arrangements to give effect to these  matters (Mr F).
was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of Mr W and/or Mr F?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
Mr W and/or  Mr F. As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says (bolding is my 
emphasis):
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  (given by Mr W) and the arrangements (facilitated by Mr F).  
Ref: DRN52597309The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So in the alternative, I will need to consider whether either  Mr W or Mr F 
were acting as Abanas agents in relation to the acts complained about, and whether it is 
therefore responsible for Mrs Cs complaint  on that basis.
Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds  sets out the following  about apparent  authority [chapter 8, article 
72]:
Ref: DRN525973010Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principal's business with other persons. By so doing the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principal's business has usually 
"actual" authority to enter into.
So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed Mr W and/or 
Mr F (the agents) to act on its behalf  in relation to conducting the activities  Mrs C has 
complained about.  And whether this was done  with the express  or implied  agreement  of 
Abana (actual authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mrs C relied  on a representation 
made by Abana (or that Abana allowed  to be made) that Mr W and/or Mr F had its authority  
to carry out the acts complained about. 
The advice given  by Mr W
Mrs C says she thought  that Mr W was working for Abana. Shes given  us a copy of the 
business card and referral  material he left with her, which has Abanas name on it. Ive no 
reason to doubt her testimony  - which has been consistent since she approached this 
Service in 2016  - that Mr W held himself  out as working for Abana. 
But I havent seen  any evidence that there was an AR agreement  or any other written 
agreement between Mr W and Abana. And he was never listed  as an appointed 
representative of Abana  on the FCAs register. In fact, Ive seen no evidence of any direct 
relationship between Mr W and Abana. 
Mr W was a shareholder of New Beginnings, which was an AR of Abana  at the relevant time. 
So, there may have  been a relationship between Mr W and Abana  through the entity  New 
Beginnings. But theres no evidence he was acting on behalf  of New Beginnings when 
dealing with Mrs C.
For example, Mrs C didnt mention New Beginnings when she brought  her complaint to us. 
She doesnt recall  Mr W mentioning that firm being involved. And weve  not seen any 
communications such as emails, business cards  or other promotional  materials which relate  
to, or refer to New Beginnings being  involved in this transaction.
Mr W being a shareholder in New Beginnings is not in itself enough  to make Abana  
responsible for Mr Ws acts or omissions.  Being a shareholder  in a firm does not prevent Mr 
W from conducting activities on his own behalf  or through an entirely  different  entity.
Ref: DRN525973011So, after carefully  considering all the available  evidence, I conclude  the following:
-There is no evidence of a contract between Abana and Mr W where Abana permits or 
requires Mr W to carry on business  of a prescribed description and accepts 
responsibility for the same in writing.  Mr W is therefore not an AR of Abana  for the 
purposes of section 39(3) of FSMA;
-There is no evidence that Mr W was acting  as an agent of Abana, that is: (1) theres 
no evidence he had Abanas express  or implied authority to carry on any activities  on 
its behalf; and (2) theres no evidence that Abana represented to Mrs C that Mr W 
had authority to act on its behalf  and that she relied on this representation. I have 
thought carefully  about the business  cards and other documents that Mr W provided 
to Mrs C bearing Abanas name, but theres  no evidence  that these documents were 
provided by Abana for Mr W to use.
-Theres not enough evidence for me to conclude  that Mr W was acting on behalf  of 
New Beginnings  in this transaction and Abana can therefore not be held responsible  
for Mr Ws acts on the basis of the AR agreement it had with New Beginnings at the 
relevant time.
As such,  we dont  have jurisdiction to consider a complaint against Abana  about the advice  
Mr W gave to Mrs C.
The arrangements  made  by Mr F
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Fs dealings with Mrs C were either (1) in his 
capacity as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity  (i.e. as [Mr F] 
Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
The arrangements,  including  the authorisation and transmission of Mrs Cs application for a 
SIPP with Avalon, and the authorisation and transmission of her application to ePortfolio 
Solutions and effecting the investment in unregulated funds, were all signed by and 
submitted to Avalon by Mr F.
Having reviewed the evidence, I think the arrangements  in Mrs Cs introduction  to Avalon 
were conducted by Mr F on behalf  of Abana because:
-The key arrangements were made by Mr F in April 2014  this is before he told 
Avalon he was leaving Abana and provided  new terms of business  at the end of May 
2014. Before this time Mr F had been  submitting business to Avalon in his capacity 
as an agent of Abana and using  that firms authorisation details.
-Further to the above, where  Mrs Cs application paperwork required identification of 
the Financial  Adviser Firm Name, Mr F filled this in with Abana Lda. And he 
provided its FCA firm reference number on the associated  documents.
So, Im satisfied Mr F arranged Mrs Cs SIPP  with Avalon while  he was still an agent of 
Abana (and not in his capacity as an unregulated introducer when he was purporting to seek  
direct authorisation for [Mr F] Associates, or as part of the New Beginnings Network).
Ref: DRN525973012did Abana accept responsibility for these arrangements under section 39(3)  FSMA?
I now need to consider  whether Mr F did in fact have authority to act on behalf of Abana in 
arranging Mrs Cs SIPP with Avalon. We have been provided with an agreement  between 
Abana and Mr F which purports to be an appointed representative  agreement.  This was 
provided by Abana when we first became involved  in this case  in February 2016. The 
agreement states  the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [Mr F] (a person) of [specified address] ("the  Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so I have taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
I agree  with the conclusion of the investigator here. The arrangements made  in connection 
with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mrs C didnt constitute insurance mediation 
activities or life assurance business   both of which relate to contracts  of insurance. So, 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied the terms  of the AR agreement didnt 
authorise Mr F to conduct the arrangements that he carried  out for her. 
Ref: DRN525973013As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for Mr F to arrange this transaction in his capacity  as an AR of 
Abana. And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of Mr F in this case  on the basis of section 39 
FSMA.
In its response to the investigators opinion, Abana suggests the AR agreement is a fraud.  It 
noted the font on the final signed page was different from the rest of document. It says the 
agreement weve relied on didnt have Mr Fs original (wet) signature on it. It says the 
agreement wasnt enforceable because it didnt  have all the elements required to be a valid 
contract. And that because  it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register and therefore 
Mr F didnt  become a regulated AR of Abana.
Ive carefully considered  Abanas submission which has some merit. For example, I can see 
that the last page of the agreement  which contains the signatures  of the parties - is in a 
different font from the rest of the document.  And as Ive already acknowledged Mr F was 
never listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  itself which provided the copy of the agreement  to us that it 
now asserts  is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about 
Mr Fs role with Abana,  it told us We have  not been able to locate a written agreement with 
[Mr F] as an individual. To this it attached the agreement. Later it explained it had meant it 
couldnt find a document  with his original  signature.
I dont find Abanas argument persuasive. When it first sent the AR agreement to us, it made 
no comment on its veracity or that what it was forwarding  to us was a fraud. And it didnt  say 
the document hadnt been signed by the parties. I wouldve expected  Abana  to have 
provided this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and Mr F. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana  has told us about  its 
connection with him and the emails Ive seen between Abana and Mr F, and between Abana 
and Avalon which I set out in more detail  below.
Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  Mr F authority to conduct  pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by Mr F acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities Mr 
F carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for Mr F to carry  on those activities on its behalf?).
Leaving aside the AR agreement, there are several  other batches  of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements Mr F was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that Mr F was involved with pension  activities when it entered  
into a relationship with him. In 2016  it told us:
Ref: DRN525973014The relationship was that [Mr F] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [another advice firm] with [a SIPP operator] products. These clients  were 
transferred to Abana and he would  continue to assist those clients.  Abana obtained a [sic] 
agency with [the SIPP  operator] and provided  a home for his clients.  [Mr F] paid us £5880  
annually for this temporary  service as he said he was going  to be directly  authorised.  This 
agreement was superseded when  [Mr F] introduced New Beginnings Ltd who became an AR 
of Abana.
This demonstrates  that Abana expected Mr F to carry on pensions activities  and facilitated 
this by entering into an agency  agreement with a SIPP operator. Further, theres  a pattern of 
contemporaneous evidence which bolsters  my finding that Abana  knew Mr F had a 
significant and ongoing involvement in pension activities, acting on its behalf.
For example, Ive seen  a letter dated  November 2013 from Abana to one of Avalons 
competitor SIPP providers  relating to bank  details for the payment  of commission to each of 
Abanas appointed representative / sub-agency - Mr F is identified as one of these. Abana 
says this was provided in preparation for the fees generated by the existing SIPP client 
base.
Theres an email exchange in early March 2014  between the same parties, in which the 
SIPP provider requests an urgent meeting with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [Mr F] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with Mr F but he is leaving  on two weeks holiday 
from Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [Mr Fs] clients are from referrals. All case  
fact finds and notes  are uploaded to our secure  client portal to be reviewed  by our 
compliance and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  Mr F transferred from other advisory  
firms. However,  I think the exchange  shows the SIPP provider understood the relationship  to 
be that Mr F was working on behalf  of Abana and it was attributing  the business Mr F was 
submitting to it as being business  done  on behalf  of Abana as principal.  
Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions Mr F was making  on its behalf. And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Interestingly, theres correspondence between Abana and Mr F in April 2014 about  the 
nature of the services he was providing.  Abana says this appears to be in relation to a 
suitability report of an existing transferred  SIPP. Its Director says this was a personal  email, 
and Mr F appears to want feedback because he mayve provided  similar  opinions  for Mr F 
when he worked  at a former company.
Ref: DRN525973015In the email Abanas Director tells Mr F (my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  Mr F guidance on how he should  
be constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively its clients,  following a review 
by its compliance team.  Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent 
relationship.
The advice from Abanas compliance function to Mr F focusses on investment funds. There  
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements Mr F was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
1.The written agreement between  Abana and Mr F shows that there  was a relationship 
between the parties under which they anticipated that Mr F would carry out certain  
activities on behalf of Abana.
2.Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and Mr F could agree in a more 
informal way that Mr F had authority to conduct  pensions business on behalf of 
Abana, such as through the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied  based  on the 
evidence that Abana  was aware  of, and consented  to, Mr F carrying  on these  
pension activities on its behalf  and that consensual agreement  to conduct these 
activities can be gleaned from the dealings between the parties.
3.Mr F was not directly authorised by the FCA. The communications  between Abana 
and Mr F that I have set out above  show that Abana entered  into a relationship with 
Mr F so that he could continue to provide  advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas 
authorisation (they would become Abanas  clients  who Mr F would continue  to assist 
with). And it shows that Abana knew Mr F was providing advice to consumers to 
open SIPPs, in fact it entered into terms of business with a SIPP  operator  so that Mr 
F could provide  the same for clients.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F did have Abanas actual authority to undertake pension activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf. 
payments made by Avalon  for business  generated by Mr F
Avalon told us its records showed that commission payments for business  introduced  by Mr 
F before the end of May 2014  were  paid directly to Abana. Ive seen paperwork to this effect,  
with the charge for Mrs Cs SIPP appearing on the May 2014 statement. Abana  is shown as 
the introducer and the total payment (which included  charges for multiple clients)  was due to 
it. But unfortunately, its not that straightforward.
I can also see that from April 2014  Mr F was liaising with Avalon to clarify what commission  
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients. 
Ref: DRN525973016Mr F asked  Avalon for more information about  the transactions.  He says the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  Mr F and Avalon continued through  May and June  2014  and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [Mr F] Associates.  And then when this didnt work  out, there were  discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  Mr F an opportunity  to get his clients to sign letters of authority 
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency. In Mrs Cs 
case, I can see theres a letter on file. It says:
This letter confirms my wishes  to keep any business I have with yourselves with [Mr F] and 
his Associates, as such I only authorise you to accept instruction on my behalf and to only 
give out information directly to Mr F
The form has Mrs Cs details and its dated  22 May 2014. The form is annotated by Avalon 
to say the instruction was actioned on its SIPP database in June  2014.  But there are 
significant problems  with the LOA. 
Mrs C is adamant she never  signed  such a form. I can see Avalon  wrote to her in October 
2014 to tell her it had received an LOA to change her agency  from Abana to Mr F. It 
enclosed a copy. When it didnt hear back from her it made the assumption things were ok. 
While Mrs C thought this was a bit odd she doesnt  seem to have followed it up at the time. 
She simply  assumed the new arrangement would take effect from that point onwards. 
Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony when it says it never received payments  from Avalon in respect of the transaction 
with Mrs C. I think the following email  from Avalon to Mr F from September  2014 is 
instructive:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter.  As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA 
from you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult  position with regards  to 
payment on these. Can I have your thoughts.  We will have  little choice other  than to make 
payment to them if we cant have the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  Consistent with what  Ive set-out elsewhere, 
I think this information  supports  my finding  that Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana until the 
end of May 2014,  even though he appears to be hatching plans to work  on his own account 
prior to this. I think  Abana was expecting payments to flow back  to it for this business, as it 
had done with other transactions,  and when it didnt it queried  the position  with Avalon.
Again, I think  this demonstrates  that Mr F was given actual authority to undertake pension 
activities on behalf of Abana as it expected to be paid for introductions that Mr F was making 
to Avalon. 
Ref: DRN525973017the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana  
When Abana wrote to Mrs C in February  2016  about the outcome of an independent  review  
into the arrangements made by Mr F, it acknowledged hed been responsible  for the pension  
services shed received.  It agreed  to pay her redress and reverted to its professional 
indemnity insurer on the matter. It appeared to accept responsibility  for the things  Mr F had 
done wrong on its behalf.
But Abana now says that its initial offer to pay Mrs C redress  wasnt an admission that it had 
got something wrong. It says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention.  It 
said the review work conducted by the regulatory compliance consultancy  was flawed. It 
makes various allegations, including that the review relied on incomplete  and false  
information provided by Avalon.
Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
Actually, from what Ive seen I think its more likely Abanas later retraction of the offer had 
more to do with its professional indemnity  insurer rejecting its claim to cover  the 
compensation costs.  I note in December 2017  it wrote to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [Mr F] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims  
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities Mr F was undertaking.  Even if it didnt realise what  he was doing would have the 
effect of nullifying its insurance cover  because the activities  fell outside the scope of Abanas 
permissions, it should have realised this.
So, I think Abanas initial acceptance of the review process and the redress proposals is 
significant and is another  indication that it had in fact given Mr F authority to act on its behalf 
in arranging SIPPs, such as Mrs Cs.  
Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time appears  to have  shown  Mr F listed as a pensions/financial 
adviser and part of The Abana Team.  It includes a photo of an individual that purports to 
be him. We obtained this information from an online resource.  Mr Fs details remained on the 
Abana website  until at least  December 2014.
Abana disputes these matters. For example, it says the historic website pages  referenced 
were draft. It says Mr Fs description is incomplete and this shows  he didnt make  it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of Mr F wasnt actually him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
web site wasnt Mr F. And I dont know whether Mr Fs details were  published  externally  or 
as Abana  suggests the pages were just draft.
Ref: DRN525973018However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that Mr F was acting with Abanas  actual  
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.  
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a weight  of evidence and argument here. And Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
Mr F was undertaking, including making arrangements for SIPPs. I think  Mr F had its actual 
authority to do this on its behalf. So, I think Abana is responsible  for Mr Fs acts and 
omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   Mr F also made 
arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond  and unregulated investments, for example 
signing Mrs Cs application form and liaising with that business on her behalf.  But, even if 
Abana didnt give its actual  authority  for Mr F to conduct these matters (and only intended 
him to be carrying on pension business), theres  well established case law that if theres  one 
act that was authorised by the principal, we may be able to look at other acts linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice could not be confined to one part of an overall transaction  
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  I agree  with the investigator  when he says this 
case is analogous.  The arrangement of the SIPP and the subsequent investments in 
unregulated funds were  so closely connected that they were  intrinsically linked   part of the 
same transaction.
So, I think Abana can be held responsible for the arrangement of the switch of Mrs Cs 
personal pension,  her SIPP and the investments in unregulated funds, which  together  
ultimately resulted  in the financial loss shes suffered.
My conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude that this is a complaint that this Service is able to consider. In summary this is 
because: 
-Mrs Cs complaint is about both the advice and the arrangements  for the switch of 
her personal pension fund to the Avalon SIPP and the investments made therein. So, 
its a complaint about regulated activities.
-We dont have  jurisdiction to consider her complaint about the advice she received 
from Mr W because  theres not enough evidence that he provided this advice on 
behalf of Abana either as an appointed  representative or agent.
-We can consider Mrs Cs complaint  about  the arrangements made by Mr F. This is 
because Im satisfied that he arranged Mrs Cs switch to a SIPP with Avalon and the 
investments in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds as an agent with the actual authority of 
Abana. Im therefore satisfied that Abana is responsible for his acts and omissions in 
this regard.
Ref: DRN525973019considering the merits of Mrs Cs complaint 
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mrs Cs complaint about  Abana in 
relation to the arrangements made by Mr F, Ive gone on to consider all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. And, after careful consideration,  Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The documentation  I have  from around the time of the events is incomplete. Abana  provided 
very little information about Mrs Cs case.  For example, Ive not seen a fact find covering her 
circumstances, nor a record of her objectives for her pension arrangements. Theres  no 
document which captures Mrs Cs attitude to risk. And I havent seen a recommendations 
report.
Mrs C has provided us with a detailed chronology of events, which  largely covers what  
happened after the switch of her pension from Scottish Life into the Avalon SIPP  had taken 
place. 
For reasons I can understand, several of Abanas former customers  who have found 
themselves in a similar situation to Mrs C have formed an informal  group for communicating  
progress. Ive not seen anything that concerns me about this development.
Nevertheless, as I wouldve done in any event,  I generally give more  weight to testimony 
which is more contemporaneous  with the events complained about. Thats because it tends 
to give a more  accurate  account of events  given the effect of the passage of time and the 
potential for the benefit of hindsight to colour  matters.
Fortunately, weve been able to obtain  some relevant paperwork from other sources,  
including the firm which took over as Mrs Cs SIPP provider. As previously established, this 
has been important  in evidencing the role Mr F played on behalf of Abana in bringing about 
the switch of her pension.
While there s conflicting  information about  what happened in 2014 and many gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.  
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mrs Cs case? 
The first thing I want to consider in relation to Mrs Cs complaint is the extensive  regulation  
around transactions like those performed  by Mr F who Im satisfied was acting as Abanas  
agent. The FCA Handbook  contains  eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
Ref: DRN525973020In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of Mr F, adhere to the regulatory requirements  
placed on it in effecting the switch of Mrs C personal  pension into a SIPP?
In short,  I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says shes spent much  of her life looking after family,  so she hadnt  built up significant 
personal pension  provisions.  Her Scottish  Life plan was established in her name as part of a 
divorce settlement  with her former husband  in around 1998. And shes  told us that this small 
plan was the only pension she had.
Mrs C didn't know what her Scottish Life plan was invested in. She didn't make any further 
contributions to it. She thought it would  be a useful pot for when she retired,  which  she was 
planning to do when she reached  60.
In April 2014 Mrs C, who was then 54, took a call which led to her agreeing to meet  up with 
an adviser to discuss her personal  pension. Mrs C has said that the adviser, Mr W, told her 
that her Scottish Life plan wasn't performing  effectively it was sat there  doing  nothing. 
He said shed achieve guaranteed growth for her pot by switching it to the SIPP  with Avalon. 
She doesnt recall  him saying where funds would be invested,  but she is sure he didnt 
mention anything about overseas funds.
Ref: DRN525973021Mrs C was persuaded to switch around £33,000  into the SIPP and this was invested in two 
unregulated funds through a business called ePortfolio Solutions. These were  the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds Ive already mentioned.
By June  2015  she began to think there  might  be problems  with her SIPP arrangements. For 
example, she tried to access a tax-free cash sum but kept hitting barriers. And in August 
2015 she was informed by Avalon that one of her funds had been suspended and that 
requests from customers for redemption  of other funds within the same  portfolio were on 
hold while the platform administrator was trying resolve the issue with the Kijani  fund.
Abana told us that following the intervention of the FCA a consultancy service  specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out a review of the suitability of certain 
pension advice and arrangements it had been associated with. This included Mrs Cs case.
Mrs C provided  the regulatory compliance consultancy  with information in October  2015. It 
wrote to her on 2 February  2016 with its conclusions.  It said the advice shed been given to 
switch to the SIPP and invest in unregulated funds had been unsuitable. And it set out what  
steps Abana needed to take to put things right.
Abana wrote to Mrs C about the outcome of the review on 15 February 2016. It noted that 
the individual it regarded as being responsible  for providing her with services related to her 
pension was Mr F. It said it would pay her redress. And that it expected final calculations to 
be available by March  2016. By May 2016  thered been no substantive progress and so Mrs 
C brought her complaint  to this Service. 
Mrs C has told us that she never met Mr F. It wasnt until October  2014,  when  she received 
a letter  about  the transfer of the oversight  of her pension affairs  from Abana  to [Mr F] 
Associates, that she became aware of him.
Ive found Mrs Cs testimony to have  been  plausible and persuasive throughout.
For the reasons  I set out earlier in this decision,  theres not enough evidence to conclude  
that Mr W provided the advice to Mrs C on behalf  of Abana, so Im unable to say its 
responsible to her for the advice.
However, I think Mr F had a close association with Mr W. Not only were  they both 
shareholders in New Beginnings,  testimony weve had from other consumers with 
complaints against  Abana suggest Mr W worked for [Mr F] Associates during 2014.  
From what  Mrs C has explained,  it seems Mr W was passing the applications hed prepared 
with her at her home,  to Mr F for finalising. Mrs Cs applications  were then sent to Avalon 
with Mr Fs signature and Abanas details to open  the SIPP and arrange the investments in 
the funds. 
Given this close working relationship, I think Mr F wouldve,  or at the very least shouldve, 
known that Mr W wasnt  covered by the same agency arrangement he had with Abana. So, 
Mrs C was being exposed  to the risks associated with receiving unregulated advice. Not 
least a lack of access  to effective dispute  resolution and redress.
Ref: DRN525973022Theres nothing to show Mr F made  enquiries about  the advice Mrs C had received from Mr 
W concerning the switch  of her personal  pension,  the establishment  of her SIPP  or the 
underlying funds she was investing  in. Before proceeding  with the arrangements, I wouldve 
expected him to have satisfied himself on these  matters. 
Mr F mustve been aware that Mrs C received no documents in relation the advice she was 
given by Mr W. It appears he made  no enquiries  at all to satisfy himself that the switch was 
in fact suitable for Mrs C before arranging it. 
So, he wasnt acting with due skill, care or diligence when  he effected Mrs Cs switch of 
pension from Scottish  Life into her Avalon SIPP and the unregulated funds. He was in 
breach of Principle  2 and therefore so was Abana.
Abanas response to this Service  has largely focussed on why it wasnt  responsible  for what  
had happened, and how it was the fault of others.  Its failed to engage with the merits of this 
case, despite clear  evidence  of the relationship it had with Mr F. I wont rehearse the 
arguments already  made in my decision,  but Ive concluded that Mr F was acting as an 
agent of Abana with its actual authority to arrange SIPPs.  
In permitting Mr F to conduct  pensions  business Abana wouldve known or at the very least 
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Theres no evidence Mrs C was an experienced or sophisticated investor. Indeed,  as Ive set 
out, quite the reverse  given  what we know about  her circumstances at the time. A small 
amount of due diligence wouldve exposed  the arrangements  being made for her as 
inappropriate.
Mr F made arrangements  for the switch of Mrs Cs only personal pension plan into a SIPP,  
which would be dealing in unregulated  investments. He completed  her application to open a 
SIPP using Abanas  FCA authorisation  details. He transmitted the necessary applications.  In 
doing so, he led Avalon  to believe Mrs C had been advised on the transaction and that this 
activity was done with Abanas  authority.
In doing all this, Mr F wouldve been aware  Mrs C was being exposed to significant risks in 
the investments  he was facilitating. He wouldve known unregulated funds could be Illiquid, 
meaning Mrs C might  have difficulty getting access to her money. The funds were  highly  
specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And they were subject to 
valuation uncertainty.  
So, Im satisfied that Mr F didnt act honestly, fairly and professionally, and in accordance  
with Mrs Cs best interests, in relation to designated investment  business  he was carrying  
out. He breached Principle 6 and COBS  2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible for his acts and 
omissions.
Ref: DRN525973023So, to conclude I dont  think  the switch of Mrs Cs personal pension with Scottish Life into the 
Avalon SIPP  and the unregulated investments with the Kijani  and SAMAIF funds could 
sensibly be regarded as fair to Mrs C. As such I think Mr F, as Abanas  agent, failed to meet 
the regulatory requirements I have set out when making these arrangements.  So, taking all 
the circumstances of the case into account, it is fair and reasonable to uphold  this complaint 
against Abana, and for Abana to put things  right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Cs case. So, she needs  to be returned to the position she wouldve  been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably  possible  had it not been for the failures which  I 
hold Abana  responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mrs C wouldve switched her Scottish 
Life funds into an Avalon SIPP, and so she wouldnt have suffered the financial loss shes 
experienced. I think she wouldve left her pension where it was.
So, Abana needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs C has suffered as a result of making the switch
Abana must  obtain the notional value of Mrs Cs previous personal pension  plan with 
Scottish Life, as at the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt  been switched to the Avalon 
SIPP.
If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investors  
Income Total Return Index (and prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index) should be used as a reasonable proxy  for the type of return  that couldve 
been achieved  if Mrs Cs pension had remained invested in her Scottish  Life pension plan.
Abana should then find the current value of Mrs Cs SIPP, including  investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation  here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
My understanding is that Mrs C hasnt taken any tax-free cash or drawdowns  nor has she 
made any additional contributions. If it materialises there have been, then the value Abana 
obtains or the calculations Abana makes can assume these  would still have occurred and on 
the same  dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mrs Cs 
former pension plan and the current value of her SIPP will be her basic  financial loss that 
Abana needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mrs Cs SIPP and avoid  ongoing  fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Abana should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept as 
a commercial value for the investments and Abana can then pay this to take ownership  of 
them.
Ref: DRN525973024If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance Abana may ask Mrs C to 
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP  may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and 
charges on the amount she may receive from the investment and any eventual sums  she 
would be able to access from the SIPP.
Abana will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mrs Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted  for 
tax 
If compensation is paid into Mrs Cs SIPP, payment should allow  for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief, so that she is in the same  position as if shed stayed in her 
original Scottish Life personal  pension  plan. 
If paying compensation into Mrs Cs SIPP would conflict  with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Abana takes on her investments, then it should pay 
her compensation as a cash sum. 
Because Mrs Cs SIPP wouldve been used to buy a taxable income any compensation paid 
in cash should  be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been due. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Cs marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
For example, if Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional 
allowance would reduce the amount payable (after any allowance for tax-free cash),  
equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. So, if Mrs C is entitled  to 25% tax free cash  from 
her fund, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount of 
compensation.
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mrs Cs SIPP, and it remains open after 
compensation has been paid, Abana should  pay her an amount equivalent to five years  of 
future fees.  This should  allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mrs C should  then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mrs C has been caused  upset as a result  of Abanas actions. The sudden loss of 
a substantial element  of her pension fund would have  come as a shock  to her and has 
clearly had a significant  impact.  In recognition of this it should pay her £500 for the trouble 
and upset shes experienced.  
Ref: DRN525973025my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I require Abana 
Unipessoal Lda to pay compensation to her as Ive indicated in the section putting things 
right. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of Mrs Cs acceptance of my final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5259730