K821x#15complaint
Miss W says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Miss W between     
February 2009 and March  2010.  Miss Ws lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 taken in February  2009 for £150.  This loan was rolled  over on one occasion.
Loan 2 taken in April 2009  for £175 this loan was rolled over on three occasions.
Loan 3 taken in October  2009 for £350.  This loan was rolled  over on two occasions.
Loan 4 taken in March  2010  for £550. An outstanding balance remained on this loan 
at the time of Miss Ws complaint.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ws complaint and thought the loans from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN50555452Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Miss W 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG)  defines in 
a sustainable  manner as being  without undue difficulties and in particular without incurring or 
increasing problem  indebtedness,  over the life of the credit  agreement and out of income 
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss W, I think  that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss W was unlikely to have been  able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan three.  I say 
this because:
By this stage, Miss W was into her eighth  consecutive month  of owing Quick Quid 
money. In my view,  Miss Ws four rollovers  (over  the course of her first two loans) 
was in itself a clear  demonstration of Miss Ws inability to settle  her loans over the life 
of the credit agreement.  
Loan three was provided only three  days after Miss W eventually  managed  to repay  
loan two. And she was borrowing double the amount her repayment  record indicates  
she was struggling  to repay. So Quick Quid ought to have realised it was more  likely 
than not Miss W was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole the eventual  
repayment of her previous loan left in her finances and that Miss Ws indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Miss W was provided with loan four on the day that she eventually settled loan three. 
And she was again borrowing substantially more.  So not only was she not making 
any real inroads to the amount she owed Quick Quid her indebtedness was 
increasing. Loan four was provided  almost 14 months after Miss Ws first. And it was 
for a larger amount.  Miss W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service 
an increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss W lost out because  Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 
three onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
Ref: DRN50555453the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss Ws ability  to access  
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans three and four and Quick Quid should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loans  three  and four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss W owed  Quick Quid money means that any information  still 
recorded about loan four is adverse. So all entries  about loans four should be 
removed from Miss Ws credit file.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance remains on loan four. Quick  Quid can deduct this 
outstanding balance from the compensation it now needs to pay Miss W.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ws complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5055545