K821x#15complaint 
Ms W has complained that Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) has unfairly  increased  the amount 
she has to pay towards  each claim made under her pet insurance  from 25% to 45%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms W took out, will continue  to cover any medical  
conditions claimed  for in previous years, provided  the policy is renewed each year. These 
are sometimes referred to as lifetime  policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal.
Ms W says that when she took out her policy  she agreed to pay 25% of any claim.  As her 
policy is a lifetime policy she expected her contribution to remain the same  throughout the 
lifetime of her policy and it wasnt made clear that this would change as her pet got older.
Allianz has said the terms and conditions of its policy allow  it to make changes to the 
contribution Ms W is expected to pay towards claims.
Allianz has gone on to say that it now tells customers at the renewal prior to their pet 
reaching an age milestone  that the terms will change at the next renewal, giving customers  
12 months notice. While this wasnt its stance at the time, Allianz has agreed to honour the 
25% contribution for a further year, reassessing  previous  claims.
When our investigator considered Ms Ws complaint she didnt think  the renewal 
documentation sent to Ms W highlighted the change, and that Ms W wasnt aware  of the 
increase until she made a claim under the policy. She thought Allianz should also pay Ms W 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused  her. 
Ive looked at the renewal documentation sent to Ms W and I dont think it highlights the 
change in claim contribution Ms W would  have to make towards any claim.  This is a 
significant change  almost doubling the contribution Ms W has to make  towards  any claim. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  the excesses and contributions it applies to its policies, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what to set these at, or not to change  them  at 
renewal. I would be, in effect, determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and 
thats not my role. So I cant  tell Allianz to reduce Ms Ws claims contribution  moving 
forwards.
While Allianz is entitled  to change the contribution amount expected from its customers at 
renewal, I think this could  have been brought to Ms Ws attention sooner. I think  this would 
have been a shock to Ms W when  she made  a claim under the policy.  
Ms W has told us shes not happy  with this outcome suggested by our investigator. She 
agreed to a lifetime  policy with set terms, she feels the increase is a way of Allianz offloading 
the risk associated with the insurance  and is fundamentally unfair. 
Ref: DRN54389662While Ms W is now expected to pay an increased  amount  towards any claim made  under her 
policy, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest Allianz has treated  her differently to how it 
would have treated  any other policyholder in the same position. 
I understand Ms W wasnt expecting this change to her contribution  amount but the thing 
Allianz did wrong was not giving clearer information about this. I think the offer made by 
Allianz to honour  the lower contribution amount for a further  year, and our investigators 
suggestion that Allianz should also pay Ms W £100 compensation recognises the trouble 
and upset this has caused and is a fair way to resolve her complaint.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Allianz Insurance Plc has honoured Ms Ws claims  contribution at 25% for a further year. In 
addition to this I require Allianz Insurance  Plc to pay Ms W £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  it has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5438966