K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain, through a claims management company (CMC),  that they were 
given unsuitable  investment advice  by Santander UK Plc
background
Mr and Mrs M saw an adviser for Abbey  National (now Santander) in 2007 and based  on the 
advice they were given  they invested a total of £1 million in one of Santanders Premium 
Investment (Inscape) portfolios  the Preserve Real Wealth portfolio - with each paying 
£7,000 into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and the remaining £986,000 being paid on a 
joint basis into an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC).
In 2017 they complained to Santander about  the suitability of the portfolio investments and it 
upheld their complaint.  It said that the funds  they were invested in carried  too much risk and 
offered £29,585  by way of redress to put them in the position  they wouldve been  in if they 
had invested in lower risk funds.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the offer from Santander and referred  their complaint to us. I 
issued a provisional decision on the complaint a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this decision. In short I made the following findings:
Mr and Mrs M shouldve invested  in lower risk funds as the parties have agreed.
Santander had recalculated the redress due taking account  of withdrawals it hadnt 
taken into account in its original calculations which meant no redress  was due for 
being invested in funds with too much  risk.
If Mr and Mrs M want to challenge  this they need to provide some  evidence the 
calculations are wrong.
I didnt think the adviser was wrong to recommend  they go ahead with the investment 
of £ 1million given  he recommended  they hold back 40% of their money and it was 
Mr and Mrs M who said they didnt want to hold this as cash.
I wasnt persuaded it is unreasonable to expect  the adviser to have discussed how 
they could actually utilise their CGT  allowances.
Given that Mr and Mrs M were interested in tax efficiency  I think that if the reviews 
had gone ahead one of the things that is more likely  than not to have been talked 
about is CGT. And I think this is likely  to have led them  into doing something about 
this and making sure that they did use their allowances.
Mr and Mrs Ms expert IFA report calculates  their investment couldve been worth 
£31,000 more  if they had utilised  their CGT allowance and I had seen nothing to 
suggest this is unreasonable so Santander  should pay this.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision. The CMC 
responded and said that Mr and Mrs M had nothing further to add and didnt dispute 
Santanders calculations  showing  no loss had been  suffered   as a result of them  being  
invested in funds with too much risk. But they pointed out that two of the withdrawals from 
their account  had been to pay Santander  fees and werent made  by them.
Santander didnt  agree with my provisional decision.  In summary it made the following  
points:
It agreed to pay the trouble and upset  payment of £300 I said it should pay on the 
basis it had originally  miscalculated the redress due.
Ref: DRN53468122It didnt agree that Mr and Mrs M had paid CGT  they would not otherwise have had to 
pay.
It agreed there is a responsibility to consider the tax consequences of the 
recommended investment  and discuss how customers use their tax allowances.
It contends that this was done  as an integral  part of the Premium Investments 
proposition.
This is evidenced by use of the auto-ISA wrapping facility  ensuring that the customer 
benefits from this at the commencement of each  tax year.
It doesnt agree with Mr and Mrs Ms IFA expert  that it is better to utilise the 
allowance at the end of the tax year for CGT  purposes.
The Premium  Investments proposition inherently makes use of customers  CGT 
allowances on an ongoing basis  as the portfolio rebalancing process may trigger  
gains which are detailed to the customer in their CGT reporting.
The adviser has the responsibility to ensure that appropriate tax wrappers are used 
but financial advisers arent tax advisers  so arent responsible  for discussing future 
tax events.
The adviser discussed tax to a reasonable degree given her role as a financial 
adviser, and she made  clear  her limitations and recommended specialist tax advice.
The ombudsman has indicated that all financial advisers advising clients with a 
certain level of wealth should be reasonably expected to provide potentially complex 
tax advice. This is well in excess of any regulation and is extremely  subjective  given 
there are no specified limits as to what a large investment might be within  the 
industry.
The ombudsman is setting a precedent  which runs contrary  to regulation.
The ombudsman has formed the view that the adviser shouldve gone  further  than 
just bringing to Mr and Mrs Ms attention they could use their CGT allowance and 
discussed with them how they might actually  use their CGT  allowances.
Nowhere in the Premium Investment proposition  does it suggest that Santander  will 
discuss how customers can utilise their CGT  allowance.
The FCA raised concerns that customers with the Premium Investments service 
hadnt had annual reviews and they were required to refund 38.9% of the fees paid 
for these missed reviews.
Mr and Mrs M complain they could have saved  some  CGT  if the reviews had taken 
place but they accepted just over £30,000  for reviews that hadnt taken place, which  
is close to the amount  of CGT their IFA calculated couldve been saved.
The FCA raised no concerns about customers not being  advised about how to use 
their CGT allowance.
Having been  made aware of the possibility of CGT and the existence  of the CGT 
allowances Mr and Mrs M could have  sought  advice from an accountant or taxation 
expert how they could  utilise these.
High net worth individuals could be utilising their CGT allowances by selling other 
assets outside the Premium Investments portfolio without Santander knowing, which  
is why how the CGT allowance is used should be down  to specialist tax advisers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53468123I have noted the detailed  comments made by Santander in response to my provisional  
decision. Santander has suggested  I am setting a precedent  in saying there  was an 
obligation on the adviser to help Mr and Mrs M to utilise their CGT allowance.
I asked Santander  to explain on what basis it thought I was setting  a precedent  when Mr and 
Mrs M had produced an expert report from an IFA that indicated that the adviser  hadnt  done 
what he shouldve done with regard to their CGT allowances.
Santander said that it thought that if I issued  a final decision that states advisers  should  be 
actively discussing with customers the use of their CGT allowance - which is something the 
FCA didnt suggest  in its review of the Premium Investment service  - this would contradict 
the requirements of the FCA.
I dont agree that my decision in contradicts the regulators requirements either in what it said 
in the review or more generally.  Given  the regulator made  no mention of tax  other than to 
refer briefly to the automatic ISA wrapping  service  in its review, I dont think  what I have 
said can be contradictory to the review.  I dont think the regulator  being silent on any specific  
failing in relation to discussions about tax is the same as the regulator saying there  is never 
any need for an adviser to discuss tax. 
In terms of what the regulator expects more generally, I accept that the adviser wasnt a tax 
adviser with responsibility  for considering all of Mr and Mrs Ms assets  and advising on what  
they should do with those  assets so far as tax is concerned.  But Santander accepts that an 
adviser does have responsibility  for discussing the use of tax allowances with clients. So it 
seems to me the only issue  is how far that duty extends. 
The adviser only had responsibility for the Premium Investment portfolio so could only 
discuss this with them. But this was a large part of their overall available  assets.  And I dont 
think it is unreasonable to expect  the adviser  to have discussed making use of their CGT 
allowances each year.  And if she had done so I think it is more likely  than not that they 
wouldve made use of those allowances.
 
This is in line with the conclusions in the expert  IFA report Mr and Mrs M provided in support  
of their complaint  - which Santander has had the opportunity of considering and commenting  
upon.
I note that Santander has referred  to the Premium  Investments portfolio inherently making 
use of the CGT allowances because the rebalancing process that was carried out as part of 
the investment  could  trigger gains. I acknowledge that the rebalancing process could do this 
but it doesnt change my findings about  what  I think  the adviser shouldve  done.
I note that Santander has referred  to the amount  it paid back to Mr and Mrs M in fees which  
is close to the amount  the expert IFA has calculated they couldve saved through  use of their 
CGT allowances. But Im not persuaded this means  Mr and Mrs F shouldnt  get any more 
than the amount that has been repaid  by Santander  for failing to provide the review service. I 
think it is reasonable for Santander to also pay the losses arising from Mr and Mrs M not 
utilising their CGT allowances because Santander  didnt  discuss this with them.
What Santander  should  do to put things right.
Santander calculated  that no redress is due for Mr and Mrs M having being  advised to invest  
in funds with too much  risk having previously  calculated there was a loss. The CMC has 
Ref: DRN53468124confirmed it doesnt  disagree with this and I have seen no evidence  that Santander has got 
this wrong. So I dont think any redress is due for Mr and Mrs M being in funds that were  too 
risky.
The expert IFA has calculated that Mr and Mrs Ms portfolio couldve been worth  £31,000  
more when they ended it in 2017 if they had been advised about using their CGT  
allowances. He has provided a detailed explanation as to how he arrived at that figure and I 
have seen nothing  to make me think this is unreasonable.  Santander has not provided  any 
evidence that shows that the experts calculation is wrong. In the circumstances I think  it 
should pay the £31,000 together  with simple interest at 8% per annum on this amount from 
the date of surrender to the date of payment.
I also think Mr and Mrs M have been caused  some  trouble and upset both because  they 
were invested in investments that carried too much risk and because they have paid CGT 
they didnt need to. I think an award of £300  is appropriate for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Santander  UK Plc has to pay the 
redress I have set out above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53468125COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain,  through a claims management company (CMC), that they were give 
unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK Plc
background
Mr and Mrs M saw an adviser  for Abbey National (now Santander) in 2007 and based on the advice 
they were given they invested a total of £1 million in one of Santanders  Premium  Investment 
(Inscape) portfolios  the Preserve  Real Wealth portfolio - with each paying £7,000 into an Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) and the remaining £986,000 being  paid on a joint basis into an Open Ended 
Investment Company (OEIC).
In 2017 they complained  to Santander about the suitability of the portfolio  investments and it upheld 
their complaint. It said that the funds  they were  invested in carried too much risk and offered £29,585 
by way of redress to put them in the position they wouldve  been in if they had invested in lower risk 
funds.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept  the offer from Santander and referred  their complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators considered the complaint. He agreed with Santander that the funds  they were  advised  to 
invest in were too risky for them. But he also thought they had been advised to invest too much of 
their capital in a risk based  investment and should only have invested £500,000  in this way. He set 
out the way Santander  should calculate the redress payable to Mr and Mrs M.
Santander agreed with the adjudicator but the redress calculation showed that nothing was payable.  
The CMC didnt agree  with the adjudicator. It referred to an expert report  prepared  by an independent 
financial adviser (IFA) on behalf of Mr and Mrs M. The main issue raised by the report is that Mr and 
Mrs M werent  advised to utilise their capital gains tax allowance (CGT) each year they had unrealised 
gains. The IFA calculates  that Mr and Mrs M wouldve  been around £31,000 better off if the adviser  
had taken appropriate steps with regard  to CGT mitigation.
The report also referred to Mr and Mrs M having  been advised to hold 40% of their available capital 
on deposit but that they decided  they didnt  want to have  so much on deposit and wanted to invest  
more. This changed the adjudicators view as to redress being calculated on the basis that only 
£500,000 was invested  as he now thought Mr and Mrs M wouldve invested more than this. He 
indicated that redress should instead be the amount  Santander had originally calculated  was due  
namely £29,585. But he wasnt persuaded that Santander should  also pay an additional amount  for 
the CGT  that couldve been saved.
Santander didnt agree with this revised opinion.  It said it still thought  that the adjudicators original 
opinion, that Mr and Mrs M should only have  invested  £500,000, was right. But it said even if redress 
was calculated as it originally set out in its response to the complaint,  Mr and Mrs M would not be due 
anything. It explained that it had miscalculated what was due to them as it hadnt taken account of 
withdrawals they made. And when these were taken into account they werent due anything. So 
whichever way redress is calculated Santander said nothing  is payable.  
The CMC said it wanted the expert to consider the withdrawals figures  Santander  had referred to but 
hasnt provided any further evidence on this point. it didnt agree with the adjudicator  that Santander 
shouldnt pay the £31,000 the IFA had calculated couldve been saved in CGT.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53468126Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs M shouldve  invested in lower risk funds  so this isnt an issue I 
need to decide. But as this is a provisional  decision  and its possible  a party  may change its view on 
this I will comment  briefly  on this.
I agree that they shouldve invested  in funds with less risk. Although the risk profile questionnaire  
shows Mr M was perhaps  prepared to take the sort of risk associated with the recommended funds, 
Mrs Ms risk profile was more cautious. 
The IFAs  report  also points  out that the money invested was a compensation payment resulting from 
a personal injury claim. I agree with the IFA that because of this the adviser shouldve considered 
investments with more capital protection and the recommended investment was beyond their capacity 
for risk.
There has been no issue raised with the benchmark used by both Santander  and the adjudicator to 
calculate any redress  due. But Santander has now recalculated redress taking account  of withdrawals 
which were  not part of its original calculation.  It has said as a result of this nothing  is due by way of 
redress. If Mr and Mrs M want to contest this they will need to provide some evidence that Santander 
has got this wrong.
There are two outstanding issues I do need to make findings on. Firstly, how much should Mr and Mrs 
M have invested? Secondly, should Santander have done anything  with regard to them using  their 
CGT allowances?
How much should Mr and Mrs M invested?
Santander has said the adjudicators original opinion,  that Mr and Mrs M should only have  invested 
£500,000, is right but I dont agree. It is clear from the evidence I have seen that the adviser did 
recommend they hold back  40% of the money  available  and it was Mr and Mrs M who decided they 
didnt want to keep that much in cash. In the circumstances I dont think the adviser  was wrong to 
proceed with investment of £ 1million.
Did Santander have any responsibility to ensure Mr and Mrs M used their CGT allowance? 
Santander has said that it wasnt providing tax advice. But Im not persuaded  that it had no 
responsibility to consider  the tax consequences of the recommended investment  or discuss  how they 
used their tax allowances. It was responsible for managing £1 million of Mr and Mrs Ms money  and 
given this I think Mr and Mrs M were entitled to a better service than they got with regard  to the advice 
they got when it came  to the tax consequences.
If the adviser didnt consider  she had any responsibility  to discuss  tax with Mr and Mrs M then I 
wouldnt expect there to be any reference to tax within her recommendation report, as there is.
Instead there are various references to investing through ISAs to get the tax benefits of doing  so, and 
other references to capital  gains  and Inheritance Tax (IHT) within  the recommendation report 
completed by the adviser. 
Under the heading summary of our discussion one of the reasons  she has put for Inscape being the 
most appropriate investment  is:
The ability to manage/use your capital  gains tax allowance.
In a section  called background to my recommendations  under the heading Tax Efficient Savings the 
adviser states:
Ref: DRN53468127When considering appropriate investments I recommend that eligible clients,  currently or potentially  
liable to pay income  of capital gains tax take advantage of appropriate tax efficient  savings 
opportunities such as Pensions and ISAs.
So whilst the adviser may not have been giving tax advice, tax was a consideration for her. She goes 
on to recommend that Mr and Mrs M take advantage of the facility within Inscape to automatically 
ISA wrap non ISA investments to ensure your ISA allowance is fully utilised.
So the adviser is telling Mr and Mrs M what to do about  making use of one allowance because  of the 
tax benefits of doing  so but Santander suggest there was no obligation to advise them  about  how they 
should utilise  another allowance   the CGT allowance.
In the notes  within the fact find it states  that Mr and Mrs M like the Inscape proposition and then 
explains what  the benefits of this were,  one of which is stated to be use of CGT allowances.
The adviser  states within  her recommendations that:
We also talked about how Capital  Gains Taxation could affect you when you decide  to cash in some 
or all of your investment and how by utilising  your Capital Gains Tax (CGT) allowance and taper  relief 
if may be possible  to reduce  or even  mitigate any CGT liability.
So the adviser was clearly talking about tax with Mr and Mrs M and what  they might do about this. But 
instead of suggesting the possibility of them actually cashing in some of their investments to utilise  
their CGT allowances, she simply  says that when they decided to cash in some investments they 
could make use of the allowance. I dont think it is unreasonable in the circumstances, given the 
adviser was obviously discussing the CGT allowance with them  
Having gone as far as she had in discussing the CGT allowances Im not persuaded  it is 
unreasonable to expect the adviser to have  discussed  how they could actually utilise  their CGT 
allowances. I dont think this was beyond what could  be expected of an adviser responsible for 
advising a customer about investment of a £1 million portfolio.
Im also mindful  that Mr and Mrs M shouldve had regular reviews of their portfolio which it appears 
Santander failed to provide  - it repaid them around £30,000 in fees that they had paid for reviews 
which hadnt taken place. Given  that Mr and Mrs M were  interested in tax efficiency I think  it is more 
likely than not that if the reviews had gone ahead one of the things  that is more likely than not to have 
been talked about is CGT. And I think this is likely  to have led them into doing something about  this 
and making  sure that they did use these.
What Santander  should do to put things  right.
Santander has said it has calculated that no redress is due for Mr and Mrs M having  being  advised to 
invest in funds  with too much risk. It compared the performance of their actual investments with what 
they wouldve got based on average returns from fixed rate bonds for 50% of their money  and the 
performance of the WMA Stock Market  Income Total  Return  Index for the other 50%. This is the same 
benchmark as the adjudicator used and is in line with our normal approach in a case  like this. 
But taking into account  the withdrawals  made  Santander  has now calculated that no redress is due 
having previously said that around £29,000 was due. Im not aware that it has provided its 
calculations for this to Mr and Mrs M and it should now do so. If Mr and Mrs M provide evidence  that 
Santander has got its calculations wrong I will set out how redress should  be calculated in full in my 
subsequent final decision. 
The IFA has calculated that Mr and Mrs Ms portfolio couldve  been worth £31,000 more  when they 
ended it in 2017 if they had been advised  about  using their CGT allowances. He has provided a 
detailed explanation as to how he arrived  at that figure and I have seen nothing to make me think  this 
Ref: DRN53468128is unreasonable. I think Santander should  pay this together with simple interest at 8% on this amount 
form the date of surrender to the date of payment.
I also think  Mr and Mrs M have been  caused  some trouble and upset both because  they were 
invested in investments  that carried too much risk and because they have paid CGT they didnt need 
to. I think  an award  of £300 is appropriate for this.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Santander  UK Plc has to pay the redress I 
have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5346812