K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) responded to a claim 
on his landlord  insurance  policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr B made a claim on his landlord insurance policy. He said his tenant had 
moved out and had caused a significant amount of damage to the property. Mr B has also 
said the tenant was growing and selling illegal substances.
Great Lakes appointed a third-party  company  to manage the claim on its behalf but for the 
purposes of this decision, I will refer only to Great  Lakes. Great  Lakes accepted the claim 
but ultimately said most of the damage  wasnt covered under the insurance policy.  Great  
Lakes said that Mr B doesnt have cover for the contents in the home  but that he does have 
cover for malicious damage.  It has agreed to cover  the cost of a cracked  window, less the 
£250 excess. But it says there is no evidence that the rest of the claim was the result  of 
malicious damage.
Mr B disagreed. He said there have been holes drilled into doors, damage to the flooring and 
significant other damage. Mr B doesnt  believe this was the result of wear and tear and he 
believes that Great Lakes  accepted that this was malicious damage at one point  and appear  
to have changed its stance.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that she 
hadnt seen any evidence of malicious damage  that made her think  Great  Lakes had made a 
mistake in declining the claim. Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Theres no dispute that Mr B has had to undertake a great  deal of work  to rectify the damage 
caused to the property  by his previous tenants.  But Mr Bs policy  only provides cover for 
malicious damage so I must consider whether Great Lakes decision to decline  this claim on 
the basis that the damage wasnt malicious was fair.
Great Lakes has already agreed  to consider the costs of replacing a cracked  window, so I 
have considered the other items Mr B is claiming  for.
Mr Bs policy  doesnt define malicious damage,  which isnt unusual, but I would consider 
this to mean that the tenant damaged  the property intending to do harm. This is different to 
the tenant acting neglectfully,  accidental  damage or wear and tear.
Having reviewed the evidence sent to Great Lakes, its clear  that the tenants left the property  
in a poor state of repair and caused significant  damage to it over and above  what a landlord  
would consider normal wear and tear. But I havent seen any evidence  that the damage  
caused was malicious.  And while Mr B has made comments that the tenant was growing 
illegal substances on the property, he hasnt provided any evidence to us or Great  Lakes 
Ref: DRN58343772proving thats  the case. And Ive seen call notes from a conversation  Mr B had with Great 
Lakes that suggest this is something he suspected, rather than having seen any evidence of 
it. So based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im not satisfied that the damage caused to the 
property was malicious. So it follows that I dont  think Great Lakes acted  unfairly in declining  
this claim.
Mr B has specifically  mentioned the drill holes in the back door and that fact that this door 
appears to have been forced. I dont doubt  thats  the case  but there isnt any evidence that 
this was malicious rather than the actions of a tenant concerned about security.  And as Mr B 
doesnt have accidental damage cover  as part of his policy, I dont think  Great  Lakes has 
acted unfairly in declining this item.
Mr B has also said that Great Lakes accepted the claim then later appears to have changed  
its stance. But I dont  think thats  the case. Great Lakes has requested information from Mr B 
in order to make a decision on the claim,  but there  isnt anything  in the wording of the emails 
that suggests it will definitely pay the claim. So I cant agree Great  Lakes agreed to pay the 
claim at any time.
So taking everything into account, while I agree with Mr B that the damage was significant  
and due to the unreasonable  actions of the tenant,  Im not satisfied that the damage  was 
caused maliciously. Therefore, I dont think the damage is covered under  this policy.  And I 
dont think Great Lakes  acted unfairly  in declining  the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5834377