K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage Finance 
in November 2017. The car was more than eight years old and it had been  driven  for about 
68,000 miles. Mr C complained about  a squeaking  noise in January 2018  which Advantage 
Finance says was fixed as a gesture of goodwill. And he then complained  about  a rattling 
noise in May 2018 and the car was sent for a diagnostic  test. Advantage Finance paid for 
half of the cost of the test. The report stated that the engineer  was unable to hear a noise but 
replaced the fuel filter and noted that a bleed nipple was missing. The dealer  agreed to 
replace the bleed nipple.  
Mr C then complained  to Advantage Finance in June 2018 and said that he wanted to reject  
the car because there was a gearbox problem. It arranged for the car to be inspected  by an 
independent expert  who said that there  was differential noise that would require further 
investigation  but he concluded that the issue wasnt inherent when the car was supplied  to 
Mr C. So Advantage  Finance  didnt accept Mr Cs rejection of the car. He wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
reasonably say that there was an inherent  defect with the car at the time that it was supplied 
to Mr C  so she couldnt reasonably say that Advantage Finance needed to do anything 
further.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that the noise  problem  was never  solved  (and wasnt  caused  by a missing  wheel nut), he 
also had several  break-downs in the car and hes provided copies of his e-mail exchanges 
with Advantage  Finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that the car was 
of satisfactory quality. That will depend on a number of factors,  including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr C was 
more than eight  years old, had been driven for about  68,000 miles and had a cash  price of 
£9,490. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr C in November 2018 and about two months  later he complained 
about a squeaking noise.  Advantage  Finance says that the issue  was fixed  as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr C then complained about  a rattling  noise in May 2018 and the car was sent for a 
diagnostic test - with Advantage Finance paying  for half of the cost of the test. The report 
said that the engineer was unable to hear a noise  but the fuel filter was replaced and it was 
noted that a bleed  nipple  was missing. The dealer agreed to replace the bleed  nipple. 
Ref: DRN56850432Mr C says that the noise  issue has never been  resolved  but hes complained  about  two 
different noises and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there  
continues to be a noise issue with car that was present when the car was supplied to him  
or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of a noise issue.
Mr C then complained  to Advantage Finance in June 2018 about a gearbox problem. That 
was about seven months after the car had been supplied to him and Ive seen no evidence  
to show that hed complained about  a gearbox problem before then. Advantage Finance 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert later that month. The 
inspection report records the cars  mileage  as being 75,942 miles   so Mr C had been able 
to use the car to drive nearly 8,000  miles before he complained about a gearbox problem.
The inspection report concluded:  
 there is an adverse noise from the rear, which requires  a more detailed  
investigation; and: "It is the engineers  opinion  that the rear differential noise is 
recent and therefore  in the engineers opinion not inherent at the point of purchase.  
The engineers opinion of the vehicle is that it is Fit for Purpose  and would have 
been at the point of purchase. Therefore, the [noise now] being  experienced is a 
service issue and the claimant is responsible  for all repair costs.
Mr C hasnt provided any evidence to show that the car had a gearbox  problem when  it was 
supplied to him in November  2017.  And Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at that time. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Advantage Finance to allow Mr C to reject the car or to pay for 
the gearbox problem  to be repaired.
Advantage Finance has provided evidence  to show that it paid 50% of the cost of the 
diagnostic report to Mr C in May 2018  and that it paid for the car to be inspected. I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay any other money  to Mr C or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5685043