K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mrs N says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
HSBC has said Mrs N applied for a credit card during a telephone call. This was followed up 
with a credit  agreement sent to Mrs N directly in the post which was signed  and returned.  
HSBC no longer has the call recording which is unsurprising  considering how long its been,  
but it has provided a copy of the credit agreement  Mrs N signed. Mrs N is sure the sale took 
place in branch.  However, based  on the evidence Ive been  provided I dont agree that it did.
I can see the credit agreement is printed with all of Mrs Ns details. It also says return this 
copy on the top right of the agreement which I think indicates it was posted to Mrs N. So I 
think the credit agreement would have been completed in Mrs Ns own time without the 
involvement of an adviser from HSBC.  
Mrs N has said she was told the policy was compulsory  and wasnt given an option.  From  
looking at the credit agreement, I can see PPI has been ticked for and Mrs N has signed 
separately from the credit for it to indicate she wanted the cover.  As Mrs N was agreeing to 
additional credit, I would have expected  her to have read the agreement carefully before 
signing in agreement to the purchase of PPI. So if she didnt want  PPI, she could have left 
the section blank. Having taken everything  in to consideration, I think  HSBC made it clear 
that Mrs N didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
Ive noted Mrs Ns allegations of fraud against  HSBC. I wont be commenting on the specific 
allegations made about fraud in this decision.  Mrs N has the option  of pursuing these 
allegations through the relevant authorities  if she wishes  to take them further  which I 
understand she has already done.  
HSBC says it didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs N but Mrs N says she was given advice 
about the policy. From what weve been  told by HSBC, the application  form for the PPI would 
have been sent to Mrs N for her to complete. And so I think its unlikely HSBC recommended  
the policy to her which means it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to 
make sure Mrs N got the information she needed to decide for herself  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN58905602From looking  at the application record HSBC  has provided, it says Mrs N was self-employed.  
However, in the PPI Questionnaire Mrs N has said she was employed. Our adjudicator 
asked for clarification on Mrs Ns circumstances and she confirmed that she was employed 
on a fixed term contract  and that her employment  continued after the contract ended. Based 
on what Mrs N has said about her employment  circumstances, I think  its unlikely Mrs N 
would have received the sick pay shes said she would  have  got in the PPI Questionnaire. 
Nevertheless this policy  would cover 10% of the outstanding balance  of her account  for up to 
12 months if she was too sick to work  or she lost her job. So I still think  the PPI would have 
been useful.
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N. But HSBC  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs N any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mrs N any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs N the difference between  
what Mrs N owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mrs N 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs N can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs N any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5890560