K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He says that he should  have been 
allowed to reject the car.
background
Mr M entered into a HPA with Black Horse  in December 2017.  He says he experienced 
issues with the car shortly  after acquisition and told the dealer and Black  Horse within  the 
first 14 days  that he wanted  to reject the car. He says he was told he couldnt do this at that 
time and that the dealer  needed  to have  an opportunity to carry out repairs. Mr M says that 
an inspection report was carried  out but the car was not driven as part of this and that had it 
been the issues would have been  identified. 
Mr M says that he was without the car for 12 of the first 28 days and so he complained  again 
and was told by that the dealer had agreed he could  unwind his HPA. He says that based  on 
this he arranged to get another car. 
Black Horse  says that Mr M contacted  it on 10 January 2018 about issues  with the tyres, 
brakes and satellite navigation  system but he did not want to log a complaint at that time as 
he planned to discuss the issues with the dealer. Mr M then called on 19 February noting 
issues with the engine management light (EML) and a sensor  but again said he would 
discuss these with the dealer. On 20 February it says Mr M raised a complaint about 
potential issues with the EML meaning  a sensor  needed  to be replaced,  the satellite 
navigation system and the tyres.  It says he then raised a further  potential  issue  with the 
gears.
Black Horse  says that it upheld Mr Ms complaint in regard to the EML, sensor and satellite 
navigation system but said that repairs had been  successfully  completed and confirmed by 
an independent inspection. It says there was no evidence that the tyres  were defective at the 
point of supply  but that these were replaced by the dealer as a gesture of goodwill. And 
there was no evidence that there  was a fault with the gears. It says the HPA was closed  in 
April 2018 and that its offer of £219.51  was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator concluded that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
She noted the 30 day right to reject  but said that Mr M accepted repairs  and that these 
seemed to resolve the issues identified. She said that the issue  with the gears had not been  
confirmed and as Mr M no longer had the car this couldnt be investigated further. 
Our investigator said that the dealership was acting as agent for Black Horse  when the HPA 
was agreed but that after this it was acting  in its own right. She did not think that Black Horse  
was responsible for the actions of the dealer in regard to saying the agreement  would be 
unwound and then saying this would  not happen.
In regard to the compensation  offered by Black  Horse for loss of use and distress and 
inconvenience our investigator thought this was reasonable.
Mr M asked  that his complaint be referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN50509842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr M entered into a HPA with Black Horse  to acquire a used car. Under the regulations 
Black Horse  can be held liable if the car provided  was not of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory 
quality takes into account factors such as the cars  age and mileage. At the time the car was 
just over a year old and had been driven  around 9,300 miles. 
Mr M experienced issues with the car shortly after acquisition.  The first issue he had was 
with the tyres, one of which he said was punctured. Tyres are considered wear and tear 
items and the state of the tyres should have been visible at the point of delivery. However as 
the dealer replaced the three tyres that Mr M had raised concerns  about I find this a 
reasonable remedy.
Around a month after acquisition,  Mr M reported the engine management light (EML) coming 
on. He says he contacted Black Horse about  this and was told to get in touch with the 
dealer. Black  Horse  says that Mr M contacted it in January  about  issues and again in 
February and that both time he said he would contact the dealer.  
It is not clear  whether  Mr M was told to contact  the dealer about the issues  or whether he 
decided to do this himself. However  it is clear that there  were  issues with the car. I accept  
that it was reasonable for the car to be returned  to the dealer  for the faults to be confirmed. 
This happened. Given the age and mileage of the car at acquisition,  the type of issues,  and 
when these arose, I find it more likely than not that the car had faults  present or developing 
at the point of supply.  Because  of this it is reasonable  to expect Black Horse to ensure a 
remedy was provided.
While I understand that Mr M says he wanted  to reject the car due to the issues, based on 
what I have seen it appears that he accepted  that repairs  could take place. Given  the issues  
that were raised  I think repairs were  a reasonable remedy. 
An independent inspection report was undertaken on 19 March. This confirmed that a sensor 
had been replaced and that no other faults were present  at that time.  It further  noted  that the 
EML would have  come on due to the issue with the sensor that had now been  replaced. It 
also said that Mr M confirmed that the issues had not been present since the repairs.
Based on the above, I accept that the issues with the sensor,  EML and satellite navigation 
system had been  resolved.
Mr M says that the issue with the gears was ongoing. This was not replicated in the 
inspection but I note Mr Ms comments about the car not being driven. I cant  say whether 
there was an ongoing  issue with the gears and as Mr M no longer has the car I cannot  say 
that this should be investigated  further.  
Overall it appears that Mr M accepted  repairs and that these were  successful. I do not have 
sufficient evidence to say that there was an ongoing issue  with the gears  that was due to a 
Ref: DRN50509843fault present at the point  of supply. Because of this I do not find that I can say Mr M should 
have been allowed to reject the car.
Mr M was inconvenienced by the issues he experienced.  He was without his car for periods 
of time and was not provided with a courtesy car on all occasions. Black  Horse said in its 
final response letter that it would pay Mr M 12 days for the loss of use and a further £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience  he had suffered. I can see that Mr M did have use of the car 
apart from the times  when it was in for repair and based on the information  I have seen, I 
find this reasonable.
I understand that Mr M is upset about  the information he received about being able to 
unwind his agreement. However, while Black  Horse can be held responsible for the 
information provided by the dealer as part of the HPA discussions, it cannot  be held 
responsible for the ongoing  service  provided by the dealer.
I can understand why Mr M is upset  that the car he acquired experienced issues  so soon 
after acquisition. However in this case I do not find that Black  Horse is required to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050984