K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has blocked  her online account 
without giving her a clear  reason, and is insisting  that she visits a branch to provide 
identification before it allows her access again.  Shes also unhappy about the service  shes  
received from the bank.  
background
Mrs M says in November 2018  she attempted to access her online  banking through  her work 
laptop and received a warning to contact  RBSs fraud team.  Information  on RBSs website 
suggested contacting it through their webchat  service, which  she did. Mrs M says she spent 
almost an hour using the webchat service only to be told that the web advisor  couldnt  help 
and shed have  to call the fraud team.  
Mrs M then called the fraud team and was advised  the laptop  she had used presented a high 
risk to her online banking details because it had been used for multiple historical log ins. So 
her online account  had been blocked. She was advised she would need to visit a branch and 
provide photo  identification in order to unblock  it. Mrs M asked for the details of her preferred  
branch, which  the fraud team gave her. But when she travelled to it, she found it had been 
closed down. She then called  RBSs  fraud  team again who would not speak with her further 
because she was not calling from in-branch.
Mrs M refused to visit another  branch and complained to RBS.  The bank said that when 
Mrs M first called the fraud team she had failed the security checks, preventing her from 
being able to unblock her account over the phone. So thats  why it told her she would have 
to attend a branch to sort things out. 
RBS says it has acted  correctly in blocking Mrs Ms online  account  and has a duty to protect  
customers accounts from potential  fraud  risks.  It has also re-confirmed that she will need to 
attend a branch with her photo  identification  in order for her online account to be unblocked. 
RBS accepted that its information in relation to Mrs Ms preferred branch had been  out of 
date so it apologised for the inconvenience  of sending Mrs M to a closed branch. It 
compensated her £25 in recognition of this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  that RBS had acted reasonably by 
blocking Mrs Ms online account access.  She thought the payment it offered for the mix-up 
regarding Mrs Ms visit to the branch was fair. Mrs M disagreed and so her complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.   
Having listened  to both of the telephone calls that Mrs M made to RBS, the ombudsman  
didnt agree that she failed the security  questions.  So he asked RBS to comment  on this. 
RBS confirmed that she didnt fail security  but that the reason the telephone agent  couldnt 
unblock her online account over the phone was because of the security  alert.  
Mrs M was informed  of this. She said that she hadnt done anything  wrong and she used her 
work laptop for her own online banking purposes only.  She said that she had been the only 
one who had made any attempt to resolve  this issue.
provisional decision
The ombudsman issued  a provisional  decision as follows:
Ref: DRN59687582Ive read RBSs current account terms and conditions.  Part 5.3 confirms the bank may 
suspend access to Mrs Ms account for a number of reasons, including if the bank believe 
its appropriate in order to protect  your account . Given this term, and the fact that Mrs Ms 
account was blocked because of multiple  log ins, I dont think  it was unreasonable  of RBS to 
block Mrs Ms on-line  account in order to protect her interests. 
Mrs M has said that she didnt do anything wrong. I completely agree and I cant  see that 
RBS has suggested  that she ever did. But having  applied the block,  for valid reasons, RBS 
then had to follow its procedure for unblocking the account. So Ive thought about whether 
that procedure  went as smoothly  as it couldve done.
Mrs M has asked  why RBS did not contact  her about a potential fraud attempt or to resolve 
the issue. Part 5.3 of the terms and conditions  also say that RBS would usually tell you 
before or immediately  after  it has taken steps to block access.  However, I note that Mrs M 
contacted RBS on the morning of the day her access was blocked and I think its likely she 
contacted the bank  before they had a chance  to get in touch with her. 
Ive first considered the webchat facility.  Having looked at the records  of the webchat RBS 
provided, its clear that Mrs M was given the fraud  teams number to contact to resolve the 
issue of her account being  blocked. I appreciate that the webchat advisor may not have 
been able to access the reasons for the block so they no doubt genuinely believed that the 
fraud team would be able to unblock Mrs Ms account over the phone. But this didnt turn out 
to be the case  and its clear from RBSs  explanation  that Mrs M was never going to be able 
to unblock her account over the phone. So I accept that the webchat service not only took far 
too long but also misdirected Mrs M  wasting her time and leaving her understandably  
frustrated.
Regarding the first call that Mrs M then made to the fraud team,  having  listened to the call 
its clear to me that she did pass the security  checks. Thats because after asking her a 
series of security questions, the agent  then went onto discuss her account with her  which 
they wouldnt have  been permitted to do if shed failed the questions. So the reason RBS 
initially gave  in its final response letter for asking  Mrs M to attend a branch wasnt  accurate. 
And it understandably left Mrs M frustrated and confused because  RBSs explanation didnt 
make sense to her.  
So Ive considered RBSs comments that the real reason for asking Mrs M to visit a branch 
was because that was the only way to unblock her account due to the high risk nature  of the 
alert. I think this is a reasonable explanation given the high nature  of the alert so Mrs M was 
always going to have to visit a branch, despite the misinformation around the reasons for 
that.
So for all of these  reasons, although I think RBS was right to block Mrs Ms on-line account 
and to ask her to visit a branch, it has caused  her unnecessary  frustration and confusion  
along the way. And she was also inconvenienced by the unnecessary trip to the closed 
branch. So RBS should pay Mrs M an additional  £50 in recognition  of all of this.
I recognise how strongly Mrs M feels about  the situation. She says that although shes  able 
to visit another  branch, shes choosing not to out of principle. I can understand why she feels 
this way but it wouldnt be fair of me to ask RBS to waive its usual procedure for this reason. 
So Im afraid  that Mrs M will still need  to visit a branch if she wishes  to unblock  her on-line 
account. 
Ref: DRN59687583the response to the provisional decision 
RBS has agreed to the provisional findings  and increase in compensation.
Mrs M says she refuses to believe that the only option is for her to visit a branch. This is a 
procedure that is no longer fit for purpose as it doesnt take account  of customers 
vulnerability. She has made alternative  suggestions such as RBS visiting  her at home  or 
asking the joint account holder to verify her identity. Or it could allow  her to re-register for 
digital banking in the same way a new customer would. If RBS cant  offer an alternative  
solution then Mrs M says that shell close all of her accounts. 
Mrs M would  also like to know if RBS believes  shes not the genuine account holder and if 
her account  is at risk of fraud.
In relation to the suggested  level of compensation, Mrs M says that her complaint has never  
been about getting compensation. But in any event, the proposed  amount isnt enough given 
that she has been unable to access her online account for over five months now.
my findings
This matter has been passed onto me to make a final decision.  Ive considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  My provisional findings align with those already provided  by the first 
ombudsman, for the reasons given. So Ive gone  onto consider Mrs Ms response to those 
findings.
For the reasons  already outlined in the provisional  findings, RBS had valid concerns about 
the security of Mrs Ms online account. And no further evidence  has been provided  to 
change my mind on that. So the decision to block Mrs Ms account  was a reasonable one. 
And, having done that, I think its reasonable for RBS to want  to carry out certain checks 
before removing that block. So Ive gone  onto consider  how RBS should  do that. 
RBS says that Mrs M will have to attend a branch to verify her identity.  This is neither 
unusual nor unreasonable. RBS is entitled to check  the identification of their customers in 
person. And a branch  visit tends to be the securest,  quickest and cheapest option. As 
opposed to, for example, a customer having  to pay to have their identification and relevant 
documents verified independently. So I dont agree that RBSs procedure  is unfit for 
purpose.
Of course there  will be occasions where  a customer genuinely cant  visit a branch, in which  
case alternative options might have  to be explored.  Mrs M has mentioned vulnerable  
customers as an example. But I have to consider  the particular facts of this complaint. Mrs M 
is able to visit a branch  but is choosing not to out of principle. Theres  no other reason, 
vulnerability or otherwise, that prevents  her from visiting a branch.
I think itd be disproportionate  to ask RBS to depart from its usual procedure  based solely  on 
a matter of principle. Mrs M has undeniably been caused inconvenience  by the trip to the 
closed branch. And she now faces  a second trip through  no fault of her own.  But ultimately  
shes able to visit a branch  should  she wish to. Shes well within her rights  to continue to 
refuse but it wouldnt be fair to hold RBS responsible for that choice. What  I can hold RBS 
responsible for is the inconvenience to Mrs M. So I think  that the fairer  and more  
Ref: DRN59687584proportionate remedy is to address that inconvenience with a compensation award, 
notwithstanding what Mrs M has said about  this complaint not being about the money.
For all of these reasons, and the reasons given in the provisional findings,  I dont think  RBS 
has acted unreasonably in blocking Mrs Ms account. And I also dont think its being  
unreasonable in continuing  to require her to re-visit a branch in line with its security  
procedures. But it has undoubtedly caused Mrs M material distress and inconvenience,  as 
outlined above  and the provisional findings, for which it should pay her a total of £75. 
As an aside,  Ive noted Mrs Ms question about  whether  RBS is suggesting shes not the 
genuine account holder.  I dont think this is something that has to be answered. The fact 
remains that the block was reasonable. So its reasonable  that a security  procedure must 
now follow. And, for the reasons  already  given,  Mrs Ms personal circumstances dont justify  
departing from RBSs usual procedure for unblocking the account.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay Mrs M a total of £75 for her material distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5968758