K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about poor administration of his current and credit  card accounts by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. He is also unhappy that Lloyds has closed his accounts.
background 
Whats happened  can be summarised briefly. 
In early 2019 Mr A had current and credit card accounts with Lloyds. Hed been the victim of 
fraud and on 31 January  2019 he spoke to Lloyds about this. Mr As understanding was that 
his cards on both accounts  would be blocked. Once he returned  from abroad,  hed be able to 
attend a branch of the bank with his ID so that new cards could be ordered.
Unfortunately Lloyds didnt do this. It only cancelled  the credit cards, not the current  account 
cards, which  the fraudsters were able to use. Lloyds has acknowledged  that this was its 
mistake.
Lloyds has confirmed that it refunded all the fraudulent transactions.  But Lloyds has also 
closed Mr As accounts, after giving him notice of its intention to do this.
Mr A complained to Lloyds. The bank apologised for its mistakes. Mr A wasnt happy with 
this and complained to us. An investigator  looked  at the complaint. Having done so, she 
thought Lloyds actions in failing to block the cards  had caused Mr A trouble and upset  for 
which he should be compensated. She asked Lloyds to pay £200, which it agreed to do. The 
investigator was satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to close  Mr As accounts.
The investigator also noted that Mr A was disputing that hed been  refunded  for all the 
fraudulent transactions. Shed asked him to identify which transactions  he was still disputing,  
but he had not done  so. The investigator  explained to Mr A that if he was able to highlight  on 
his statements which transactions he was disputing,  this would need to be the subject of a 
fresh complaint. But until he did so, there  was nothing  further  she could do about this.
Mr A disagreed that £200 was adequate compensation. Mr A also said that there were  
disputed transactions  of £500, but he didnt identify which these were on his statements.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive listened to all the calls and 
reviewed everything Mr A and Lloyds  have provided.
Whats happened  isnt in dispute:  Lloyds acknowledges  that it made a mistaken when it only 
cancelled Mr As credit cards, not his current account cards. The banks explained that this is 
because, when Mr A spoke to Lloyds initially about  this, he called Lloyds credit card division. 
The customer service agent  could only see the credit card account, not Mr As current 
account, but Mr A wasnt aware of this (and I wouldnt  expect him to be). So Mr A naturally 
assumed that when  he was told the cards  would be blocked, he assumed this was on all his 
accounts. 
Ref: DRN57236002Lloyds has acknowledged  its error  and has offered £200 compensation. Im satisfied this is 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr A has said he wants the cost of his phone calls from abroad to be reimbursed too, but 
hes provided no information about how much  he was charged for calling the bank.  In the 
circumstances, Im unable to order Lloyds to compensate Mr A for this.
Lloyds closed Mr As accounts after giving him 65 days notice.  Im satisfied Lloyds is 
allowed to do this. Although Mr A disputes he received notice,  Lloyds computerised account 
notes show that notice was issued.
Lloyds says its refunded  all the fraudulent  transactions, but Mr A says the bank hasnt and 
that hes still owed  £500. Disputed  transactions dont form part of this complaint. Im only 
looking at Lloyds account administration in relation to its failure to block  the cards, and the 
account closures. But I see that the investigator  has sent Mr A his statements four times 
asking him to identify  the disputed transactions, but he hasnt done so. If Mr A maintains  that 
he is still out of pocket, hell need  to raise this as a fresh complaint, providing evidence in 
support.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Lloyds Bank  PLC must pay 
Mr A compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience. I make no other order  or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5723600