K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave him loans irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
January 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in part. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has confirmed  to us that he has nothing  further  to add and is happy to accept my 
provisional decision. Uncle Buck hasnt responded to my provisional decision. 
So, in these circumstances,  I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions that I reached in 
my provisional decision. It follows that I partially  uphold Mr Ms complaint and Uncle Buck  
needs to pay him some  compensation.
Putting things  right
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  shouldve agreed to provide loan six to Mr M and so, to put 
things right, it should:
 
refund  all interest and charges paid by Mr M on loan six;
add simple interest at 8% per annum to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about this 
loan is negative. So, all entries about loan six should  be removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take tax off this interest. Uncle  Buck must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
partially uphold  Mr Ms complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right as 
detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Richard France
Ref: DRN56625022Ombudsman
Ref: DRN56625023EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Background
This complaint relates to six loans given  by Uncle Buck, as follows:
Loan No Amount Date Repaid
1 £300 16.5.14 6.6.14
2 £250 16.7.14 7.8.14
3 £500 12.8.14 6.9.14
4 £200 15.9.14 5.12.14
5 £400 13.4.15 7.7.15
6 £800 7.7.15 5.10.16
Loans one to four were single-repayment payday loans, and the last two loans were  each repayable 
by three monthly  instalments. 
Mr M believes that Uncle Buck didnt  carry out sufficient checks before giving him these loans and 
that, had it done so, it wouldve seen that he was experiencing financial  difficulties.
Uncle Buck feels that it did undertake adequate checks before offering each loan.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Uncle Buck had been wrong to provide loans one and two, but he did 
conclude that loans three to six shouldnt  have been given.
Uncle Buck didnt agree;  but it did offer £250 to Mr M as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M didnt  accept  this 
and, as both parties arent in agreement, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr M could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle  Buck should fairly  
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN56625024I think  its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mr M 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Uncle Buck has shown  us that, before  it lent to Mr M, it asked him for details of his income  and 
expenditure, it verified his salary information and it carried out credit checks. 
Having considered  the circumstances behind  the initial  lending I agree with our adjudicator that Uncle 
Buck did nothing wrong in providing loans one and two.
Loans three and four
Loan three was provided very shortly after loan two had been repaid. And it was for a higher  amount. 
The adjudicator felt that the amount required to repay  loan three (£675) represented  a significant  
proportion of Mr Ms monthly income  and, as such, there was a risk that Mr M wouldnt have been 
able to meet  his existing commitments without borrowing further. 
This view was based upon:
the adjudicators  opinion that, given  the circumstances of this loan, proportionate checks  for Uncle 
Buck to undertake  wouldve been to independently  verify Mr Ms financial  circumstances by, for 
example, reviewing his bank statements;
the adjudicators  understanding that Mr Ms monthly income was £1,674 and not £2,100 as 
declared to Uncle  Buck by Mr M.
But, having reviewed Uncle Bucks business files and the bank statements provided  to us by Mr M, I 
can see that his income was actually around £2,100 as hed declared to Uncle  Buck when applying 
for the loan. Its apparent  that this comprised two regular elements of income; firstly his main salary of 
£1,674 and also approximately  £350 per month from a second job.
So, whilst I acknowledge that a loan repayment of £675 is not insignificant,  I dont think that this 
constitutes such a proportion of Mr Ms combined income as would lead to an immediate  conclusion 
that he would, most likely,  find it difficult to meet his commitments. 
I dont believe it wouldve been proportionate, at this point, for Uncle Buck  to ask for sight  of Mr Ms 
bank statements. But I dont think that the checks Uncle  Buck did carry  out before lending  went far 
enough. Given the value  of this loan I think that it shouldve asked Mr M specifically  for details of any 
other short  term loans so that these could be taken into account in its affordability assessment. I cant 
see that it did so.
However, having reviewed Mr Ms bank statements, I can see evidence of other short  term loans 
outstanding at this time - but not to the extent that Id consider this loan shouldnt have been given. 
So, I think that even if Uncle Buck had carried  out what I consider to be proportionate checks, it would 
Ref: DRN56625025most likely have still considered its loan to be affordable. In these circumstances I dont think  Uncle 
Buck was wrong to provide loan three to Mr M.
Loan four was given just over a week after loan three had been repaid. It was for a lower amount and 
was repayable by one payment of £270. As with loan three, I dont think  that the checks  undertaken 
by the lender went far enough but, equally, I dont see anything that I think wouldve indicated to 
Uncle Buck that the loan shouldnt be given. It follows  that I dont think it was wrong to give loan four.
Loan five
A couple of weeks after loan four had been provided Mr M contacted Uncle Buck  to ask for an 
extension of the loan because his wifes  working  hours had been  reduced and so there was less 
household income available. Uncle Buck agreed to extend the loan and put in place a repayment  plan 
whereby it was repaid over three months. The loan was ultimately cleared on 5 December, rather than 
the originally  agreed repayment date of 7 October.
Loan five was an instalment  loan - whereas all the previous  loans had been payday loans. This meant 
that the required  monthly  loan repayments were actually  less than the prior payday loan repayments;  
I dont agree with Uncle Buck that the break in lending  of four months is sufficient  to justify  its 
argument that it should  be viewed as the start of a separate loan chain. But I do accept that its not 
unreasonable for it to have  taken some reassurance  from such a period of no borrowing  in 
considering whether Mr M was dependent upon short term lending at this point;
Mr M evidently had difficulty in repaying  loan four within  the terms of the original agreement. In the 
light of this knowledge  Id have expected Uncle  Buck  to make additional  enquiries of Mr M about the 
prevailing state of his household income prior to agreeing  to give loan five. There  are a number of 
ways in which  it couldve done this  such as asking  for sight  of his bank statements. I cant see that it 
did so. 
However, Ive reviewed Mr Ms bank statements  from the time and I dont  see any obvious signs of 
financial distress that mightve warned Uncle Buck that Mr M would most  likely have been unable to 
meet his financial commitments at that time;
For these  reasons I dont think that Uncle Buck was wrong to provide loan five.
Loan six
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Uncle  Bucks lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which it should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.  Given the particular circumstances  of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was 
reached by loan six. I say this because:
loan six was the highest amount borrowed and was given on the same day that loan five was 
repaid;
by the time of loan six, Mr M had been borrowing from Uncle  Buck for around 10 months of the 
previous 14 months;
I think that such a pattern of lending by this stage, when coupled  with the evident repayment 
difficulties experienced previously, were indications that Mr M was struggling to manage his 
finances. And I think that Uncle  Buck ought  to have realised that it was more  likely  than not Mr M 
was having to borrow  further to cover the hole in his finances  created by repaying  prior loans.
I think  that the overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing suggests that, by the time of loan six, hed become 
persistently reliant on short term loans.
Ref: DRN5662502