K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  the finance agreement supplied  by Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance  through which she acquired a vehicle was 
misrepresented. She wants to end the agreement  and have her payments refunded along 
with compensation.  Ms B is represented by her son but for ease of reading  Ill mostly refer to 
her.
background
Ms B tells us in early 2016  she acquired  a vehicle  from a dealer Ill refer to as P, a 
company. But when, in 2018, she wanted to trade it in for a larger  model a discrepancy  was 
found between  the information  contained  in the finance agreement and that held on BPFs 
internal systems. BPF had recorded  a different model variant  which had resulted in a higher 
final balloon payment  being required. Ms B feels shes been the victim of fraud and has 
suffered a financial loss.
BPF told us it didnt think Ms B had suffered any loss and the vehicle with which Ms B had 
been supplied  was that referred to in the finance agreement. But during  the course of the 
complaint enquiry it did offer to make various  gestures of goodwill - without admission of 
liability. The last offer would allow Ms B to end the agreement and return the vehicle without 
any further payments  being required. And to pay £100 for trouble and upset on top of £75 
which had been  paid earlier.
The adjudicator felt the latest offer by the business was fair. He said he wasnt convinced  
any loss had been incurred. He said there was no guarantee  that a vehicle will always be 
worth more than the outstanding finance.  And he felt Ms B had the use of the car and had 
been paying less than should have been the case.
Mr B, on behalf of his mother, didnt agree. He felt all the payments made  should  be 
refunded along  with compensation for the stress.  As its not been possible  to resolve the 
complaint an ombudsman has been asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Ms B has had the worry and upset of discovering there was a discrepancy in 
the recording of the financing of this vehicle. And the time spent  in trying to get it sorted out 
also adds to the concern.
This is a complex situation and theres been  a substantial amount of evidence and 
submissions provided by the parties. Where  evidence  is unclear, incomplete or inconsistent  - 
as some of it is here - I have to make  a decision on the balance of probabilities.  Thats what  I 
think is most likely  to have occurred. And if I dont refer to all the individual  issues that have 
been raised thats not because I havent taken them on board. Its simply that I dont need to 
refer to them separately to reach what I think is the correct outcome.
Ref: DRN51832442I should also explain the limitations  of my role. Theres been  an allegation that the 
agreement has been subject of fraud. This service  doesnt directly investigate  such  
allegations - thats  a matter for the police. And I understand a report has been made. My 
task is to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable resolution  of this complaint.
Ms B believes the financial agreement  was misrepresented and that as a result shes 
suffered a loss. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces a customer  to 
act upon it. And under  present legislation BPF is liable if there was a misrepresentation 
when the finance agreement was taken out. So if I thought  thered  been misrepresentation 
Id expect BPF to do something about it. If a misrepresentation has occurred  wed normally  
try to put the customer back  in the same  position  as immediately  before it took place.
Ms Bs agreement is a Personal Contract  Purchase (PCP) - a type of hire purchase 
agreement. Typically this sort of agreement involves  a smaller monthly  payment  and a larger  
balloon payment  at the end. The balloon payment is linked to the predicted value of the 
vehicle - known as the guaranteed minimum future value (GMFV). A customer  has the 
choice at the end of the agreement of paying the balloon payment or handing the vehicle 
back. Because of the GMFV they wont be charged more - even if the value has dropped 
below what was predicted.
What seems to have happened in this case is that the balloon payment is higher than it 
should be as it apparently  relates  to a higher  vehicle  specification.  Im not able to say if this 
is due to a deliberate (fraudulent) act or merely an administrative error. But I dont think this 
affects my final decision and Ill explain why.
If a financial loss has been incurred the amount  of the loss is not affected  by the loss being 
brought about by fraud or innocent error. As an example, if a bank system error results in 
£500 being taken from an account the loss is the same as if that sum had been obtained 
fraudulently. The cause is different the loss is the same. So if Ms B has suffered any loss the 
actual amount is not altered by whether or not it was fraud.
As it happens I dont  think shes suffered any overall financial loss. Ms B entered  into a 
financial agreement which related to the acquisition of a vehicle at an agreed cost.  As far as 
Im aware the vehicle  delivered was what shed  seen and at the price she agreed.  
If the recording of the agreement  on BPFs systems has been either mistakenly  entered or 
subsequently altered  - that would  not be a misrepresentation.  In order to amount to a 
misrepresentation a false statement of fact has to be acted upon. Clearly  Ms B wasnt aware 
of the issue until recently  - so anything thats occurred since she acquired the vehicle cant 
have affected  her decision to go ahead with the agreement.
The adjudicator has obtained a comparison between the agreement which Ms B entered  and 
the details of the agreement which would probably have been offered if the vehicle 
specification had been entered correctly. This cant be said to be exact as theres no way of 
knowing if Ms B would have accepted the altered  terms. The 47 monthly payments would 
have been around £80 more. The final payment  would have been about £3,700 less. But the 
overall cost would have been identical.
Im aware Ms Bs representative  feels theres  a loss as he says the vehicle is in negative 
equity. I take that to mean he feels the car is worth less than the sum outstanding on the 
loan. Even  if this were  so - without selling the vehicle theres no way of knowing - BPFs offer 
would eliminate this - at least as far as it affected Ms B.
Ref: DRN51832443And where  a consumer  alleges  loss due to some  breach of contract or other error by the 
supplier of the vehicle  theres a duty to mitigate  any loss. This means the consumer must 
take reasonable steps to keep that loss to as little as possible.  BPFs offer results  in Ms B 
not being required to make any more  payments than are due when the vehicle is returned.  
So if the vehicle  is sold then any loss incurred would fall on BPF.
In those circumstances I consider the latest  offer from BPF to be fair and reasonable and I 
shant be asking it do anymore.
Im not going  to recommend BPF refunds the payments made to date as nothing which has 
occurred has prevented Ms B from using the vehicle.  If the payments had been structured in 
accordance with the calculations above  shed have  made around £2,500 more in payments  
to date. So by allowing  her to end the agreement, without further cost to Ms B, BPF is 
accepting this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint.
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance has already 
made an offer to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable. 
So my decision is that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance should:
1.Arrange collection/return of the vehicle at no cost to Ms B.
2.End the agreement on the date of collection/  return of vehicle with nothing further for 
Ms B to pay. For clarity, this means  Ms B must make any payments due up to the 
date of collection/return including any arrears.
3.Arrange for Ms Bs credit file to reflect the agreement has been ended early  and 
settled. This need not be done until all payments due including arrears have been 
paid.
4.Pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183244