K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained about a money  transfer carried  out for her by SimbaPay Ltd 
(Simba). The transfer failed but Mrs S has not been reimbursed by Simba.
background
In March 2019 Mrs S wanted to transfer £2,300  to Ghana. She instructed Simba,  a money 
transfer company,  to do this for her and paid the £2,300 via her credit  card.  Mrs S provided 
Simba with details of her online Pockit account  as her bank account. The transfer  was made 
via a correspondent bank  in the UK (NatWest) to the bank in Ghana.
Mrs S didnt pass the Know Your Customer checks and so the money was transferred 
back from the Ghanaian bank to NatWest  on28 March 2019.  It should then have been 
refunded by Simba to Mrs S (less  a £12 fee). 
This is where things  went wrong. Mrs S says she hasnt  received the refund because  her 
Pockit account has a limit of credits  of £1,500. NatWest  says it sent the funds to an account 
with Barclays, which is Pockits bank on 2 April 2019. Pockit  says it has no record of 
receiving the funds.
Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman  Service that she hadnt  received her refund. 
An investigator carried out a detailed investigation.  He was satisfied that the issue had 
arisen due to the limitations on Mrs Ss Pockit  account. It appeared  that NatWest  had sent 
the funds to Barclays (Pockits bank) but Pockit hadnt been able to trace  the funds.
But the investigator also noted  that the terms and conditions of Simbas contract with Mrs S 
stated that Simba  would provide a refund if it refused to process any transfer. The situation  
that had arisen  was not of Mrs Ss doing, and she had been fully co-operative in providing all 
information required to try to trace the funds.
The investigator said Simba should refund the full £2,300, together  with interest  at 8% 
simple per annum from the original date of return (28 March  2019) to the date of settlement. 
He also thought Simba should  pay £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Simba said it would pay Mrs S £2,287.50  at the end of April 2020, once it had again 
attempted to recover the money from the other payment service  provides involved, and in 
particular the Ghanaian bank. But Simba didnt think it should have to pay interest or 
compensation to Mrs S.
Because the matter is unresolved, it now falls to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Its clear something went wrong with the refund due to Mrs S. Simba places  the blame with 
the Ghanaian bank. Im not sure this is correct, because it seems  the problem might  lie with 
NatWest transferring the money to Barclays  without  ensuring that it could be linked to Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN59984532It may well be sitting in a suspense account at Barclays. But whatevers gone  wrong,  none of 
it is the fault of Mrs S. 
I think this matter needs to be resolved by Simba, through its own bank. I dont think  its fair 
that Mrs S has still not received her refund  after more than a year.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Simba  to reimburse  
Mrs S for this transaction. I also think its fair, given the length of time shes  been without her 
money, that Simba pays interest at 8% per annum  simple  on this from the date of the original 
refund to the date of settlement. Im also satisfied  that a payment for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs S is warranted.  I think £100  is a fair and reasonable amount.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I require 
SimbaPay Limited  to do the following:
reimburse Mrs S with the full amount of £2,300;
pay interest on the £2,300 at 8% per annum simple* from the date of the original return  
(28 March  2019) to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs S compensation  of £100 for trouble and upset.
Payment must be made in full within 28 days of the date SimbaPay Limited  receives Mrs Ss 
signed acceptance form. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
*If SimbaPay Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from any interest,  it should  tell Mrs S how much  it has taken off. SimbaPay 
Limited should also give Mrs S a tax deduction  certificate if requested, so the tax can be 
reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5998453