K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a PPI policy.  
background 
Mr and Mrs L were  sold a PPI policy alongside  their mortgage in 1992.  The policy provided 
Mr L with cover in the event of accident,  sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were led to believe the policy was a condition of their mortgage so 
they had no choice but to take it out.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2018. Having reviewed all of the 
information available to me, I wasnt  persuaded that Nationwide had mis-sold the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs L. I thought it was more likely that Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the PPI, 
knowing it was an optional product. And while I accepted that Nationwide  couldve given 
them clearer  information about the policy, taking into account  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances 
at the time, I didnt  think better information  wouldve stopped them from taking out the cover. 
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision to say it remains of the view that the policy  
was not mis-sold. It confirmed it didnt have any further information to add. 
Mr and Mrs L responded to say they were disappointed with the outcome of my provisional 
decision. Theyve asked  that I reconsider and made several points as to why they believe 
the policy was mis-sold.  Ive summarised these below:
Mr and Mrs L say the inclusion of a section about PPI on the main mortgage  
application implies  that the policy was an integral part of the mortgage process  
rather than an optional  policy  which ought  to have been set out on separate 
documents with an accompanying  booklet  of terms and conditions;
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage offer has a section for special conditions   essentially 
requirements of the mortgage. I commented that the absence  of PPI being  
mentioned in this section went  some way to support my finding that the policy was 
most likely presented as an optional  product.  Mr and Mrs L disagree and say this 
doesnt relate to what they were told at the time nor the pressure they were  put 
under;
Mr and Mrs L believe it was Nationwides responsibility to make sure the PPI was fit 
for purpose and in not disclosing sufficient information about the policy, Nationwide  
was negligent  in this duty
As both parties have  now responded, it is appropriate for me to issue  my final decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.  
Ref: DRN59265382Having carefully considered this case,  I dont  uphold it for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Nationwide set out information about its PPI policy in a separate section of Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage application form. The form gave them the option to either decline cover entirely or 
choose who they would like to be covered by the insurance and how the benefit should  be 
split. Taking this into account, and what I know of Nationwides sales practices at the time, 
Im satisfied Nationwide did enough  to make  Mr and Mrs L aware  that the PPI policy was an 
optional product. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the PPI policy shouldve been set out on a separate application form to 
reinforce its optional nature. Theyve also said the contents of the mortgage offer fail to shed 
light on the pressure  they were  put under at the time and what they were told. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed  in 1992  as the sale took place in a meeting over 20 
years ago. And I accept  its possible that the Nationwide representative may have said 
something to make  Mr and Mrs L think they needed  to take the PPI and thats  why they 
completed the paperwork as they did. But its just as likely that they were told it was 
something it would be good to have  to protect their repayments  rather  than they had to 
have it. In addition  to this, I can see Mr and Mrs L were given the option to decline  PPI on 
their mortgage application  form  this isnt an option  I would expect to see had the policy  
been presented  as a condition of their lending. 
So, having  carefully reviewed the comments and information submitted by both parties, I do 
not consider that there is sufficiently persuasive  evidence that would  lead me to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs L were pressured into taking  the policy out. 
Mr and Mrs L say it was Nationwides  responsibility to ensure the policy was fit for purpose.  
But this isnt quite  right. I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide  recommended 
the policy to Mr and Mrs L  which wouldve required it to check that the policy was right for 
them. Instead, the evidence suggests the policy was sold in whats known as an information 
only or non-advised basis. Essentially this means Nationwide  just had to provide clear,  fair 
and not misleading information about  the policy rather than check  if it was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs L. 
 
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs L all of the information it shouldve on what  
the policy did and didnt cover and how much  it would  cost. But this doesnt mean the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Instead,  I need to decide if Mr and Mrs L wouldve done 
something different   and not taken  the policy had better information been  provided. 
The application form set out that the policy provided  cover in the event of accident,  sickness 
and unemployment.  Having this information, Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover.  And  having taken into account what  I know of 
Mr Ls circumstances, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover  so I dont think better information about the policys  key terms and 
conditions wouldve made Mr and Mrs L change their mind  about taking out the cover. It also 
looks as though the policy couldve been useful for them and was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the policy wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs L from taking it out.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs L that I have looked at all the information  I have about their 
complaint. But having  done so, I dont think Nationwide  mis-sold  the MPPI policy.
Ref: DRN59265383This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. 
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about  that. Because  Nationwide  
didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case. 
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was
more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each  month because  the
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should
also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  which means  
Nationwide Building  Society doesnt  have to pay back the entire  cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs L. 
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Lucy Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5926538