K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited (AXA) failed to tell him how much  
the ongoing treatment he was claiming for under  his health insurance policy was going to 
cost him once he had exceeded his annual out-patient allowance.
background
Mr W has a private  medical insurance policy with AXA which provides cover for him and his 
family. Last year Mr Ws daughter, Miss W, became unwell  and claimed under the policy. 
During this time Miss W needed to see a number of different consultants and have  various 
tests and scans done in order to find out what the cause of her condition.  Each  time it was 
necessary to arrange a new appointment or have  additional test done, either Mr W or his 
daughter, would phone AXA to discuss the proposed treatment and confirm  whether or not it 
was covered under Mr Ws policy.
Unfortunately it took the medical team working with Miss W some time to find out what the 
root cause of her condition was, and while she was still receiving treatment Mr W was told by 
the AXA representatives he spoke to that Miss W had used her £600 out-patient annual 
allowance. This meant that Mr W would  become  liable for the costs associated  with any out-
patient procedures  the doctors wanted  Miss W to have if she continued  to receive  private 
medical care.
Mr W says at no point did anyone from AXA explain how much  these sorts of tests  or 
procedures could cost him. He says that while he accepts he was told they had exceeded 
the allowance for his daughter, this was a particularly difficult  time and he didnt question  
what the financial implications might be, as he was focused on supporting his daughter who 
was unwell. 
Mr W has said that there should be a legal obligation on either private  health  insurance 
companies, or medical practitioners, to give patients  clear information on the actual costs  
they are likely to incur if they continue receiving private health care without being covered by 
an insurance policy. M W has said he has been left in a position where he is unable to afford 
the bills he now owes for his daughters treatment. He has told us that if he had understood 
what the costs were going to be they would  have reverted  back  to the NHS and waited 
longer for the treatment.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  already.  He didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint as he believed AXA had done enough. Mr W disagreed with his findings  and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint and so it has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint  and Id like to explain why.
Mr W has said he doesnt deny being told about the £600 outpatient limit, or the fact that it 
was exceeded  during  the claim for Miss Ws treatment. He has said that this was a difficult  
time and that AXA took advantage of his vulnerability as a concerned parent. He was 
Ref: DRN57580652focused on his daughter,  who was in a lot of pain at the time, and the insurance company 
knew this. 
AXA sent us copies of all the calls Mr and Miss W made relating to this claim Ive listened to 
18 calls in total and in the majority of those  calls, the advisers explain to Mr W (or Miss W) 
that there  is a £600 limit for outpatient treatment,  what kinds of things are considered 
outpatient treatment,  and how much of the current allowance is left. 
When the allowance was eventually used the representative speaks to Miss W explains the 
limit has been reached. Miss W then passed  the phone to Mr W so he could speak to the 
representative and they explain to Mr W what kind of tests  he may now be liable  for and 
what is still covered under  his policy. They asked Mr W does that all make sense?  and 
Mr W responded yes. 
Having reviewed all of the calls I dont think there  was any more  AXA could have done to 
ensure that Mr W and his daughter understood what the outpatient allowance  was for, how 
much it was for or that they were actively using it throughout  the claim. Its mentioned in 
most of the calls Ive heard and Mr W is told what the outstanding amount left is in a number 
of the calls. And once it was used in full the representative took time to explain what kinds of 
procedures were no longer covered under the claim.  
Mr W has said someone from the insurance  company should give patients  and their family 
an indication  of the amount of money they may have to pay for treatment if its carried  out 
privately without medical insurance. I understand his concern. The Competitions  and 
Markets Authority (CMA) published  a final report in 2017 regarding who is required to inform 
patients of their ongoing medical costs in these sorts  of circumstances. The report clearly 
states that the onus is on the medical consultants to provide the information of possible  
costs to patients in all circumstances. So I cant say AXA failed to provide Mr W with this 
information. 
And given  the information provided to Mr W and his daughter in their calls with the various 
representatives they spoke to, I dont think AXA could  have  done  anymore to alert Mr W to 
the fact that he was likely  to incur additional  costs  if he continued seeking private health care 
for his daughter.  So Im not going  to ask AXA to do any more  in regards to this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5758065