K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from Close  
Brothers Limited.
background
In October  2018 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional  sale agreement 
with Close  Brothers.
In November 2018 Mr M noticed a burning smell coming from the car. He contacted  the 
supplying dealer and was advised to arrange  a repair under his warranty.
A garage  attempted  repairs  by replacing the nearside cam cover but Mr M says the smell 
persisted. He took the car back to the repairing  garage, who advised him that it would need 
to strip the car to find out what the issue was. A diagnostic showed that there were  faults 
with the offside cam cover and the flexi exhaust.
Mr M reported the issue to Close Brothers.  Close Brothers spoke to the repairing garage and 
said the previous  repairs  had included  an inspection of both cam covers and the offside cam 
was in perfect working condition. It said the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. It also 
said it had asked Mr M to obtain  a diagnostic but that he had arranged for the car to be 
stripped without its knowledge or authority. Close Brothers offered to contribute £200 
towards the costs  of repairs  as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M wasnt happy with the response 
and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said there was no documentary  evidence to 
support the assertion that the offside  cam cover and flexi exhaust were  checked at the time 
when the first repair was attempted.  She said there was evidence of a pre existing  oil leak.  
The investigator felt that the fault suggested a lack of durability and recommended that Mr M 
be allowed to reject the car.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said the repairing garage was best placed to say whether the 
fault was present or developing  at the point of supply.  It also said that best practice dictated 
that both cams wouldve  been checked  when the car was first repaired.  Close  Brothers said 
the communication between the garage  and the expert showed that the fault was a new and 
sudden failure. It said its position was that there had been a fault shortly after purchase 
which was successfully repaired  but  that the fault reported two months later was unrelated  
and wasnt present at the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car, the 
price paid, fitness for purpose and safety and durability.
Ref: DRN59583092Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault arises within the first 6 months, its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt at 
repair. If the repair isnt successful the consumer  can reject  the car.
Mr M and Close  Brothers disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need  to look at the available evidence and determine on the 
balance of probabilities whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
There hasnt been an independent inspection of the car, although  this is something which  I 
wouldve expected  Close Brothers to arrange  given that Mr M reported the fault within the 
first 6 months.  In the absence of an independent report Ive based my decision on the 
available evidence.
Mr M reported the smell to the supplying dealer within the first 6 months and was advised  to 
arrange a repair.  The repairing garage replaced the nearside cam cover. Close  Brothers has 
said that this repair  was successful. But I dont agree. Mr M has said that the smell persisted 
following the repair. He reported the smell to Close Brothers in December 2018. Based on 
what Ive seen, Mr M was reporting the same issue as hed experienced before (a burning 
smell). Given that there had already been one attempt at repair, I think Mr M shouldve been 
allowed to reject the car at this point.
Close Brothers has replied on the testimony  of the repairing garage.  It says the garage has 
confirmed that it checked  both cam covers when  it carried out repairs. Theres  no 
documentary evidence  to show  what checks were carried out by the garage. Id expect a 
garage to keep a record of what checks  were carried out. Because of this I cant be certain  
that the other cam cover  was checked.
Ive had regard  to a conversation between the repairing garage and this service, in which  the 
repairing garage said it was possible that the fault with the offside  cam cover and flexi 
exhaust couldve been developing at the point of supply and that there wouldnt necessarily 
be any prior indication of a problem.  This would suggest that the fault couldve been present 
or developing at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the communications between the garage and the expert which  suggests  that 
the fault occurred suddenly.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think  there  is a clear consensus 
of opinion.
At the point of supply the car was 8 years old and had coved 100,000 miles. Id expect  a car 
which has covered  significant  mileage to show signs of wear and tear. But I havent  seen  
anything to suggest that this fault is a wear and tear issue  or a serviceable item. I dont think  
a reasonable person would expect  a fault of this type to occur so soon after being  supplied 
with a car. Its a high specification car which cost over £22,000. A reasonable person would 
expect several months trouble free motoring. Because  of this, I dont think the car was 
durable or of satisfactory quality. 
Taking everything into account,  Im persuaded that there was a fault which was present of 
developing at the point of supply. The attempted repair wasnt  successful and I cant  be 
certain that both cam covers were  checked.  The opinion of the garage  as expressed to this 
service suggests that the fault couldve been developing at the point of supply yet still appear 
to be a sudden  fault without any prior visible signs. Based on what  Ive seen I think Mr M 
should be allowed  to reject the car.
Ref: DRN59583093my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Close Brothers Limited  must:
Allow Mr M to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr M
Refund the deposit paid together with simple interest at 8% from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Refund all of Mr Ms monthly payments to date together with simple interest at 8% 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement, save for the payments made in 
October 2018 and November  2018 to reflect fair usage
Pay compensation of £250 for loss of enjoyment  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5958309