K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains the uplift to his pension plan Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
in respect of the buy-out  of his Guaranteed Annuity policy was less than he was expecting.
background
Since 1988 Mr S had a pension plan with another provider Ill call S, which became the 
responsibility of Royal  London. His policy had a Guaranteed  Annuity Rate (GAR).
Mr Ss retirement date was November  2019 (aged 71). As hed chosen to delay taking his 
benefits beyond  age 65 his GAR had an age-related annual increase, which at age 70 would 
be £116.92 per £1,000  of the plan value. 
In 2018 Royal London decided to offer the 33,000 former S plan holders with GARs the 
option to exchange their GAR for an uplift in the value of their plans through a legal  process 
known as a Part 26 (of the Companies  Act 2006) scheme arrangement. This gave them the 
choice of opting out and keeping their GAR or giving up the GAR  in exchange for an 
increase in their retirement savings.
In July 2018 Royal London  wrote  to the eligible  plan holders with details of their personalised 
offer, based on their policy  value on 4 June 2018. The offer said their plan would be revalued  
and the percentage increase recalculated  shortly  before the scheme was implemented.  
Mr Ss personalised offer gave him an uplift of 56% from the current value of around 
£112,400 to £175,300.  Mr S decided to accept the offer,  as did the majority of plan holders  
and the scheme  was implemented. The buy-out  completed in December 2018  and Mr Ss 
fund was revalued at around £108,700 then uplifted  to around £166,400, the voting rights 
element had reduced by around £5,300 to £57,600.  
Mr S thought  the offer had been misleading, so he asked Royal  London to explain the 
reduction. He provided Royal London  with spreadsheets  showing his own calculations and 
research. Royal London explained that the offer had been recalculated in line with the 
scheme conditions, which  were approved by the court and checked by an independent 
actuary. It said the offer pack had made it clear the offer wasnt  guaranteed, as his fund 
would be revalued,  and the uplift would  be recalculated based on best estimates of future 
long-term interest rates, longevity trends  and other assumptions at the time. It said the 
calculations were done to be fair to all plan holders and had to meet  the fairness  criteria  set 
by the independent  actuary. Mr S had been  told the uplift wouldnt be lower than 40.4% and 
he received 53% which is significantly higher than the minimum. So it didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr S disagreed saying  Royal London  should have flagged up the consequences  of changes  
between the offer and the voting closing period. He thought it hadnt been  sufficiently 
transparent, or answered all his complaint points, so he wanted  a clear explanation  in 
laymans terms, and for his fund to be credited with £5,300 for his loss. So in April 2019 he 
complained to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied 
Royal London had made it clear  the value of the uplift wasnt guaranteed and could be less 
than was quoted in the offer letter, which was an illustration. She thought Royal  London had 
explained the factors which could affect the calculation and that Mr S had received more 
than the minimum of 40.4%. She thought  Royal Londons Plan  holder circular B issued with 
Ref: DRN56901672the offer explained the percentage increase calculated in April 2018 would be reviewed after 
the sanction hearing. In terms of his final complaint point she said Royal  London had 
explained the increase  would be applied proportionately across the investments in his plan,  
not 100%  in the With Profits Fund. So overall she thought  Royal London had given  Mr S 
enough information to make an informed  choice and she wasnt  going to ask them to do 
more. 
However she did ask Royal London  to respond to Mr Ss detailed  questions which it hadnt 
addressed in its final response  letter.  Royal London  did so, but Mr S was still dissatisfied  as 
he doesnt think the explanations are clear enough.  Hes no longer complaining about the 
reduction in the uplift percentage as he understood that. But he didnt think Royal  London 
had explained  the impact  of a minor fall in interest rates, and he didnt accept their point 
about rising standard annuity  rates which he believes are actually worse  than 12-18 months 
ago. He felt our investigator had been  biased  by accepting information  provided by Royal 
London over his own. So its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Its clear Mr S has gone to a lot of trouble carrying out his own extensive research and 
calculations to try and understand the implications of the offer, both before the 
implementation of the scheme  and in support of his complaint. He acknowledged delaying  
retiring until 71 was probably unusual and thought the scheme was likely to be aimed at 
policyholders below age 65. He was aware  his GAR was a valuable benefit  particularly with 
the age-related annual increases, so he had to consider his choice carefully.  
I think the significance  of the decision is why Royal London gave plan holders almost  three  
months in which  to consider their options  before voting.  It provided a telephone information  
service for queries and offered assistance with the cost of financial advice, which  only 
around 5% of eligible members accepted. It also reassured members that as a mutual  
society it gained no benefit  from the exercise, which was a response  to the changes in the 
way people were  taking their retirement benefits  following  the Pensions Freedoms  
legislation. People  were choosing to take a lower  proportion  of their pension  savings as an 
annuity so were transferring away, even if it meant losing their GAR.  So this way they could  
take their benefits  flexibly without needing  to transfer. And it helped  Royal  London manage 
the risks of the S fund as it reduced over time.  
Royal London has a responsibility to all its members, including those whose  policies dont 
come with GARs, so any uplift  had to be fair and affordable, which  is why it the scheme was 
subject to a fairness  test by an independent actuary. 
Mr S says he doesnt dispute the reduction in the uplift percentage so I wont  replicate the 
points made  by our investigator where she was satisfied it had been made clear this was an 
illustration and could  change. He also says he understood his fund value could fall given its 
80% unit based and open  to market variances. But Mr S remains unhappy the precise 
methodology Royal London  used  isnt in the public domain and he doesnt accept or 
understand the impact of the factors it said affected  the final calculations. His research 
involved comparing information  from online annuity  comparison tools from various providers 
which he says show different results to the ones used by Royal  London. So he doesnt think 
he was given sufficiently  detailed information  to make an informed  financial  decision. 
Ref: DRN56901673Mr S has set out the assumptions he made when evaluating the offer, and in its 
supplementary response to his complaint Royal London has explained  its calculations  were 
based on different  assumptions.  Ive seen the report on the offer from Royal  Londons chief 
actuary from May 2018  which  assesses the impact  on Royal London  members  overall as 
well as S plan holders,  and spends  several pages  explaining the scheme assumptions. The 
report of its With Profits  actuary from June 2018 assessed the scheme and explained  the 
high-level methodology. While he supported the scheme being put to eligible members,  he 
acknowledged it would be possible  to refine  the scheme further by assessing  factors 
affecting individuals circumstances  such as longevity. But doing  so would be expensive  and 
time consuming and may not be in the best interests  of the members  themselves. So he 
concluded the scheme was fair and the communications to plan holders fair, balanced and 
capable of being understood. Mr S says the information Royal London provided  in its 
supplementary response to his complaint wasnt apparent from his personalised offer. I 
appreciate hed probably have liked a greater level of technical  detail  but given the 
complexity I think this would risk the communications not being widely understood. 
Ive also seen the report of the independent actuary  dated 11 June 2018. While  it concluded  
the offer had met the four policy  holder  fairness tests, it did say I believe the Offer is a fair 
offer to make overall but not likely to be favourable to every  individual plan holder given that 
there will be differences in their individual circumstances. Mr S understood from the outset 
he wasnt the average  policy holder, (who for example unlike him intended to take 25% tax-
free cash). So he could have sought guidance from the helpline  or taken financial advice, 
rather than simply  relying on his own research. 
The chief  actuarys  supplementary report from October 2018 confirmed the scheme  would 
go ahead  as 98.8% of eligible plan holders  had voted  in favour. It also explained the 
recalculation due to future longevity improvements and movements in interest rates.  I take 
Mr Ss point  that he was only told after the vote that hed get less than he was expecting, but 
I dont agree the offer was designed  to deliberately confuse the policyholder as Mr S 
claims, as Royal London  explained the recalculation would take place. Its not the role of this 
service to replicate  or check complex actuarial  calculations. But I cant reasonably  say that 
because Mr S has performed his own calculations which have come out differently that his 
are correct and Royal Londons are wrong.
I understand Mr S fears hes worse  off giving up his GAR  with the age-related  increase. But 
he could have retained it if he wanted.  The choice  wasnt imposed on him, only those  who 
didnt respond  either way were assumed to have opted in. Im satisfied the scheme 
methodology was approved by the court and assessed by an independent  actuary. The 
information was presented  in a way which balanced  providing enough detail with ensuring it 
was relatively easy to understand, and additional  information such  as the actuaries reports 
were in the public  domain. Royal London provided a means for plan holders to raise queries, 
offered subsidised financial advice and gave  members  enough  time in which  to do so, all of 
which I think was fair. And Im satisfied Royal London has responded to Mr Ss additional 
queries in detail  although  I appreciate he doesnt  agree. Taking  everything  into 
consideration, Ive seen  nothing which makes me think Royal London should make a further 
contribution to his fund.  
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr S but I dont uphold  the complaint  and dont require 
Royal London to do more. 
Ref: DRN56901674my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5690167