K821x#15complaint
Ms V complains  because  Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has paid only part of a claim for 
medical expenses  under her travel insurance policy. 
background
Ms V held a travel insurance policy, provided  by IPA. The policy  was bought  online,  through
an agent of IPA.
Unfortunately, in July 2017, Ms V fell ill while on holiday and was admitted to hospital. Ms V
was discharged the following day and her medical report shows  her diagnosis as Collapse
under investigation  Acute Gastritis.
Ms V made a claim with IPA for the cost of her medical treatment, as well as for her taxi
fares to and from the hospital.
IPA wrote to Ms V in May 2018 saying it would only be paying 81.94% of her claim. IPA said
this was because  Ms V hadnt told it about a urinary tract infection, varicose veins  and
superficial thrombophlebitis when  she bought  the policy. IPA said Ms V had therefore only
paid 81.94% of the premium she should  have.
Unhappy, Ms V complained to IPA, who sent her a final response letter saying its decision to
pay only part of her claim was correct. But IPA said it would send Ms V £150 compensation
for its delays  in dealing  with the claim.
Following further correspondence between Ms V and IPA which  failed to resolve the matter
to Ms Vs satisfaction, she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms V didnt agree, so the case  was passed  to 
me. I made a provisional decision about Ms Vs complaint earlier  this month.  In it, I said:
IPA says Ms V misrepresented facts about  her medical history to it when she took out this
policy.
I think the principles set out in the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosures  and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply them to this
situation. CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers  get the appropriate
remedy if a policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be taken into account  in deciding whether a
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is the clarity and specificity  of the questions asked by
the insurer.
If a consumer makes a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurers remedies are set out
under CIDRA. One such remedy is for the insurer to reduce the amount to be paid on the
claim, proportionate  to the higher premium the consumer  should have paid had they not
made a qualifying misrepresentation. This is the remedy which  IPA is seeking to apply here.
But, in order  for IPA to apply this remedy, I need  to be satisfied that Ms V made a qualifying
Ref: DRN53467582misrepresentation. I dont  think  she did, based  on the circumstances of her specific  case,
and Ill explain why.
When Ms V bought  her policy online,  she was asked a number of questions.  One of these
said:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered any
medical condition,  (medical  or psychological  disease, sickness,  condition,  illness  or
injury) that has required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery,  tests
or investigations?
Ms V answered no and, so, was directed to a range  of policies which  included a silver
policy which  she purchased for £13.75.
However, IPA says Ms V should  have answered yes to the above question  because shed
had a recent test for a urinary  tract infection. If shed  answered yes, shed then have been
directed to a further sub-set of questions, which  included the following;
Has anyone  you wish to insure  on this policy:
A: Ever received  treatment, for:
1. A cardiovascular condition (any condition relating to the heart, arteries, veins  or
   blood pressure) .
IPA says Ms V should also have answered  yes to this question  because she had varicose
veins and superficial thrombophlebitis in her past medical history, as a result of which she
would then have  been directed to a select  silver  policy at a cost of £16.78.
I think the questions  IPA asked are both clear and specific. But I dont think Ms V failed to
take reasonable care when answering the first 5 year question.
This policy was purchased on 10 July 2017.  Around  three weeks  before buying the policy,
Ms V had visited her doctor. She was tested for a urinary tract infection, the results of which
her medical records show came back as negative  on the same day.
Ms V says she wouldnt  have thought she needed  to declare a urinary  tract infection. Id
expect Ms V to answer IPAs questions  honestly, and with reasonable care, no matter  how
minor she might have considered any medical  condition to be. So, if Ms V had been
prescribed medication or received treatment for a urinary tract infection in the weeks before
buying the policy then I might  have expected  her to have answered this question  in a 
different way. 
But, while Ms V might  have suspected she had a urinary tract infection,  it was medically 
confirmed on the same day that she did not. So, I think as far as Ms V was concerned,  she 
hadnt had a medical condition which she needed  to tell IPA about.
I therefore dont  think it was unreasonable for Ms V to answer no to this question. I dont
think a negative test result in circumstances  such  as this is something  which  a reasonable
consumer would have  realised IPA would want to know about in response to the question
asked.
I think Ms V took reasonable care when answering  no to the first question, so she would
Ref: DRN53467583never have  been  taken  through to the second  set of questions. This means she would
never have  been  asked  questions about   or been required to declare - whether she had
ever suffered from cardiovascular conditions.
This means  I think  Ms Vs claim is covered under her policy,  and I dont think its fair or
reasonable for IPA to pay only part of her medical expenses. There is a discrepancy
between the amount which IPA says remains outstanding to the hospital  and the amount
which the hospital has told Ms V is still owing. Its up to IPA to communicate directly  with the
hospital about this to ensure the outstanding debt is paid in full.
As I understand it, Ms Vs claim for her taxi fares has now been paid by IPA, so I dont intend
to address this point  any further.
IPA hasnt sent us any information about  why there was a delay in making a decision about
Ms Vs claim but Im satisfied, based  on the evidence Ive seen, that communicating  a claims
decision took what I consider to be an excessive  amount of time. IPA says it has already
paid Ms V £150  by cheque in recognition of this. IPA also offered  to consider reimbursing
Ms V for some of her telephone calls if she sent her phone bills to them.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to pay Ms V increased  compensation for the
distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of the overall handling of this claim.
IPAs failure to accept  the claim in full when  I think it should have has resulted in Ms V being
chased for payment of the outstanding  bills directly on more than one occasion.
I intend to direct IPA to pay Ms V an additional  £200  compensation for the impact of its
actions on her.
Ms V replied to my provisional  decision and said she hadnt  received  a cheque for £150 from 
IPA for the compensation it offered  in its final response letter. 
IPA didnt accept  my provisional decision.  While it agreed Ms V didnt need to declare a 
urinary tract infection, it said Ms V had other medical conditions which hadnt been declared. 
In addition, IPA said Ms Vs policy doesnt  cover someone with medical conditions which 
means she paid a lower  premium than she should have done regardless. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed IPAs response to my provisional decision,  but I wont  be changing my findings. 
The other medical conditions which IPA says Ms V should have declared are varicose veins  
and superficial thrombophlebitis. Ms Vs medical  records show she consulted  a doctor about 
these conditions in 1989, 1994 and 2005.  These were all more than five years before  the 
policy was purchased  so Ms V didnt need  to disclose  them  in response to the first 5 year 
question which IPA asked  at the point  of sale. 
Ms V would  only have  needed to disclose varicose veins and superficial thrombophlebitis in 
response to the second question, which  asked has anyoneever received treatment for. 
Ref: DRN53467584But Ms V would only have  been directed to this second question  if she answered yes to the 
first 5 year question.  I think  Ms V took reasonable care when answering no to the first 5 
year question, so shed  never have been required to answer the second question. 
IPA says Ms Vs policy doesnt cover someone with medical conditions.  The terms and 
conditions of Ms Vs policy say:
PLEASE NOTE  THAT  THIS  POLICY  DOES  NOT COVER PRE-EXISTING 
MEDICAL CONDITIONS
This insurance is designed to cover you for unforeseen accidents and illnesses 
occurring during the period  of insurance . You must comply with the following 
conditions to make sure your cover is not affected. If you do not comply with these 
conditions we may cancel  the policy or refuse to deal with your claim or reduce the 
amount of any claim payment. 
1.At the time of taking  out this policy you will not be covered for any claim arising  
directly or indirectly from:
a)any medical condition you have,  or have had, for which  you are taking or 
have been taking prescribed medication;  and
b)any medical condition you have,  or have had, for which  you are waiting to 
receive, or have  received treatment  (including surgery, tests  or investigations) 
within the last 5 years. 
So, this policy covers  unforeseen  illnesses but doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ms V isnt claiming for a pre-existing  medical  condition and Ive already explained why I dont 
think Ms V had an existing medical  condition which she needed to tell IPA about in response  
to the question she was asked. Therefore, I dont  think Ms Vs claim is excluded under the 
terms and conditions of her policy.  
Ms V says she hasnt  received £150 compensation which IPA previously offered. IPA should  
check this, and if what Ms V says is correct, it should send this to Ms V with the additional 
compensation amount mentioned below. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Vs complaint. I direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A to do 
the following:
Pay the remainder  of Ms Vs medical bills, together with any interest  or charges that 
have accrued on these;
Provide written confirmation to Ms V when  these bills have been settled in full;
Pay Ms V a further £200 compensation, in addition  to the £150 already offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5346758