K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that NewDay  Ltd unfairly added  interest to her credit card account  which  
took it over its credit  limit.
background
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  on the 31 July 2019. A copy  of this is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out the background to this complaint. And I explained that I 
thought NewDay  had taken reasonable steps  to resolve it. Though I agreed they should pay 
the £20 compensation offered in a way that enabled  Mrs W to spend it as she wished.
NewDay didnt respond to my provisional decision.  But Mrs W did. In summary she said that:
She didnt feel Id taken into account the stress this issue  had caused her given her 
circumstances
It was very important for her to maintain a strong  credit  line and shed worked hard to 
do this
She doesnt believe NewDay amended her credit file as it declined an application she 
made for a loan
Shes unhappy with the action NewDay took after she complained
She asked for clarification as to how the interest  was calculated on her account
She said that she would like her compensation to be paid to her by cheque,  and she 
disputes that she should have  to pay back the credit NewDay  made  to her credit card 
account in order  to receive this.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to assure Mrs W that in reaching my decision I have taken everything shes told us 
into consideration. Im very sorry to hear of the difficult times shes  had. And I dont doubt  the 
degree of stress and concern  these incidents with her credit card account  have caused  her. I 
can see she feels very strongly about this complaint. So I hope shell feel this decision 
addresses the further points shes made.
In my provisional decision I said I felt the interest payments NewDay  had calculated  had 
been applied  fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of her account. But I noted there 
was a delay in NewDay refunding this interest after they said they would do so in January 
2019. And I said that I agreed they hadnt  provided  the best service in this respect. I also 
explained why I didnt feel NewDay ought  to reasonably have concluded 
Mrs W was in financial difficulties at this time.
Neither party has put forward any new information  or arguments that change my view on 
these points. So, whilst I know Mrs W will be disappointed, overall Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN51253432Mrs W has said that shes still unclear as to how the interest she was charged in December 
2018 was calculated. NewDay has provided  some  further clarification:
The statement dated 23 November 2018  detailed a balance  of £1987.09 with a minimum 
payment due of £22.57 due to reach  the account by the due date of 12 December 2018.  
The only way to avoid  interest being  charged is to clear the balance  in full by the due date.  
A payment of £6.93 was received on 3 December 2018 and a further  payment of £693.07 on 
12 December 2018; however, these  payments (totalling £699.93)  did not clear the balance in 
full that was detailed on the previous statement  (£1987.09) and as such  accrued interest 
was applied to the account in line with the Terms and Conditions of the Credit  Agreement.  
Interest is charged  from the date the transaction is added until it is repaid in full. Interest is 
calculated on a daily basis  on the actual daily balance.
I understand the amount  of interest Mrs W was charged came as a shock to her. But this 
was due to the size of the balance  of her account versus  the size of the payments shed 
made to it. 
Its clear Mrs W has worked very hard to maintain a strong credit  rating.  And I can 
understand why shes so concerned about any impact the over limit fees she incurred here 
may have  had on her credit score. Shes  told us shes still worried these issues  have 
impacted her credit rating. So we asked NewDay  to provide us with further evidence to 
confirm that they havent reported  any negative information about these events in December 
2018 and January 2019 to credit  reference  agencies. 
NewDay has shown us copies of internal correspondence to this effect.  So Im still satisfied 
Mrs Ws credit file hasnt  been unfairly impacted here. I understand shes  disappointed 
NewDay have subsequently  declined an application  she made for a loan. But to be clear  I 
cant look specifically at the details of that here as the loan application wasnt  part of the 
initial complaint she brought  to our service.  
NewDay refunded  Mrs W the £126.99 in interest that was applied to her account in 
December 2018.  And the over limit fee she incurred as a result of this. They  also refunded  
the over limit fee she incurred in January 2019 as they recognised  this came about as a 
result of the delay in these earlier refunds being  applied. And they credited her account with 
£20 by way of additional compensation to apologise for this. I still think  that overall  these 
amounts were more  than fair.
However I explained in my provisional decision that I thought  Mrs W should have been able 
to choose how she received the additional  £20 compensation. And that I intended  to ask 
NewDay to pay it to her directly if this was still her preference. 
NewDay has told us that they can debit the £20 previously credited to Mrs Ws credit card 
account and pay this to her via BACS. And Mrs W has confirmed she can receive BACS  
payments. Though shes also previously said that she doesnt think  it would be fair for 
NewDay to debit the £20 from her credit card account in order  to make this payment.
We asked NewDay if, as a gesture of good will, they would  consider  paying her £20 in 
addition to the £20 previously credited to her credit card account. But they said they werent 
willing to increase the amount of compensation offered. And I dont think I can fairly compel 
them to in these  circumstances as Ive found their overall response to this complaint to be 
sufficient.
Ref: DRN51253433I understand Mrs W is frustrated about  the amount of time NewDay  took to issue  a full 
response to her complaint. But I can see they sent her a final response letter within the 
timescales businesses  are permitted to deal with complaints like this. So whilst I recognise  
the inconvenience Mrs W experienced  here, I havent found that NewDay  treated her unfairly 
in this respect.
I can see our investigator has previously advised Mrs W of some organisations that provide 
independent financial  advice, such as the Citizens  Advice  Bureau,  or StepChange. If she 
hasnt done so already, Mrs W may wish to contact them to see how they could assist her.  
my final decision
My final decision is that the refunds and compensation NewDay Ltd have paid are sufficient 
to resolve this complaint. But if Mrs W still wishes to receive her £20 compensation as a 
direct payment, NewDay Ltd should make a payment of £20 by BACS transfer to her 
preferred account.  NewDay Ltd will be entitled to debit the £20 they previously credited to 
her credit card account when they do this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51253434copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that NewDay Ltd unfairly  added interest to her credit card account  which took it over 
its credit limit.
background
In December 2018 NewDay added £126.99 in interest to Mrs Ws credit card account.  This took the 
account over its credit  limit, and she was charged a £12 fee. Mrs W complained to NewDay as shed 
been expecting a much lower amount of interest to be applied, in line with previous months. And she 
was concerned about  the impact this would have on her credit file. 
NewDay upheld her complaint. They refunded  the interest  and over limit fees applied. And credited  
her account  with £20 as an apology for the inconvenience caused. They  also confirmed theyd 
amended her credit  file.
 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint  to our service. Shes  upset with 
the length  of time it took NewDay to deal with her complaint. And shed like them to pay her more 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result. Shes  also told us she 
would like this to be paid to her directly rather than credited  to her account. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and didnt think NewDay had treated Mrs W fairly. He 
felt that there was evidence she was experiencing financial difficulties, and thought NewDay  shouldve 
picked up on this and taken steps to help her. So he asked NewDay to pay her a further £50 
compensation in addition to the £20 theyd already  paid here,  and £30 I understand they paid Mrs W 
in relation to a separate complaint.
NewDay didnt agree  this was fair. So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Mrs W will be disappointed, but I think  the compensation  
already offered by NewDay  is reasonable to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be asking it to increase 
this. Ill explain why.
Mrs W feels that the interest and charges NewDay applied to her account  in December  2018 were  
unfair. The interest payment  was a lot higher than shed  been charged in previous months.  And she 
says she didnt receive any warning about the large  increase,  meaning she wasnt given  the chance 
to make a payment to her account to avoid an over limit charge. 
NewDay have shown us that theres an estimated interest calculation on their statements. I can see 
Mrs Ws statement from November  2018 estimated that the interest applied in December 2018 would 
be £124.38. And this was close to the actual  amount  she was charged.  However NewDay accepted 
Mrs W hadnt anticipated this and was expecting to only be charged a few pounds  in line with 
previous months. And they refunded the December interest  payment in full, along  with the over limit 
fee she incurred. 
I cant  see that there was any mistake in the interest amount NewDay calculated  here. And they didnt  
have to refund it, as it was money Mrs W fairly  owed them. So I think  this was a generous thing  for 
them to do. 
Ref: DRN51253435Mrs W is unhappy  with the amount of time it took NewDay to process this refund and deal with her 
complaint. The December interest and charges werent refunded  until the 10 February  2019. And she 
incurred another over limit fee on 27 January  2019 as this money  hadnt yet been credited to her 
account as shed expected.  
I agree this wasnt the best service from NewDay.  Theyd promised her this refund several weeks 
before. But they credited  her account with £20 to apologise for the inconvenience caused, and 
refunded the second over limit fee on 20 March 2019. Theyve also confirmed they made  
amendments to Mrs Ws credit file to ensure  no adverse information shows as a result of these  
events. So Im satisfied this wont have influenced any subsequent decisions made  by themselves  or 
other lenders. And I think these actions were reasonable to put things right for Mrs W.  
Our investigator felt there was evidence Mrs W was experiencing financial difficulties at the time this 
complaint was made to NewDay. But NewDay  say they had no reason to suspect  there was a 
problem as shed been managing her account satisfactorily. This point wasnt  part of the original 
complaint Mrs W brought to our service. But NewDay have been  happy to provide us with evidence  
so that I can consider it further here. 
Our investigator said NewDay shouldve  picked up on the fact Mrs W was struggling during a call they 
had with her on 2 January  2019. Ive listened to the call and I can hear Mrs W told the advisor that 
she was shocked to see shed gone over her credit limit and didnt  understand why the amount of 
interest applied had been  so much higher  than she expected. She also said she didnt have any 
money until she got paid the following week, and made it clear shed been expecting  to be able to 
spend more on her credit card.
I appreciate why this call caused the investigator concern. But I can also hear that Mrs W went  on to 
explain how carefully  shed  been managing her account to ensure  no payments were missed and no 
fees were incurred.  And shes told us herself that she wasnt experiencing financial difficulties when 
she raised this complaint  with NewDay,  and shed  been making large  payments each  month for more 
than the minimum required.  So I dont  think  it would be fair for me to say that NewDay should have 
assumed she needed further help at this time based on this call alone. 
Our investigator also pointed out that Mrs Ws account exceeded its credit limit two months in a row in 
December 2018 and January 2019. But looking at her bank statements I can see this was as a result 
of the unexpected interest  payment, and then the delay  in this being refunded.  Mrs W got the account 
back within the credit limit in February 2019. And she made payments  for significantly more than the 
minimum required in all three of these months. 
I understand that Mrs W let NewDay  know  she was experiencing financial difficulties in April 2019. 
Shes also suggested to us that the increased  interest payments on her credit card have caused this. 
Im sorry to hear about her situation and the difficult time she has had over the last few years. But Ive 
already explained that I dont think NewDay calculated this interest incorrectly. And for the reasons  
Ive outlined above, based on what they knew at the time I dont think  it would be fair for me to say 
NewDay should  have  taken more action to assist her whilst dealing with this complaint.
Mrs W has told us shes unhappy that the compensation NewDay paid her was credited to her credit 
card account  rather than given  to her in cash or by cheque. I dont think  its unreasonable that 
NewDay refunded  the interest and charges  applied  in this way, because  they were putting her back in 
the position she wouldve been in if they hadnt  been applied. And if they didnt do this she would  have 
been charged  interest on these amounts, which  would  have meant she suffered further financial  loss. 
But I note that the £20 compensation was to apologise for any inconvenience Mrs W experienced as 
a result of NewDays actions. So I think its reasonable she should receive this payment in a way that 
is preferable to her. If she confirms she would  still like to receive it by cheque  as she suggested to our 
investigator previously  then I intend to ask NewDay  to make the £20 payment to her this way. Though 
this would  mean the £20 credit they made to her account previously being reversed. Id ask Mrs W to 
please let our investigator know what she decides in this respect.
Ref: DRN51253436my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the action NewDay  Ltd have taken to refund £126.99 interest and £24 
of charges, along with an offer of £20 compensation, is sufficient to resolve  this complaint.  But 
NewDay Ltd should pay Mrs W the £20 compensation directly rather  than in the form of a credit on 
her credit card account  if this is still her preference. Our investigator will liaise with the parties on this 
point.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125343