K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a mortgage. Ill refer to the business as Bank of 
Scotland (BoS)  in the rest of this decision.
background
Mr H took out a mortgage through BoS in 1996.  In 2001, he took out a further  mortgage  
advance and PPI was added to his account.  BoS says it cant say exactly  when the policy  
was sold, but that cover  commenced in September 2001. It says its records  show the policy 
was sold in branch.  Mr H isnt able to provide any more  information about the sale as he 
said he didnt know the policy  had been added.
The policy added was a Total Mortgage Payment Policy (TMPP). TMPP was a package of 
different types  of insurance, including mortgage repayment cover, which  is a form of PPI. 
Critical illness and life cover was also added at the same time. Im just dealing  with the PPI 
part of Mr Hs policy  here. PPI wouldve covered him for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment; for up to 24 months per successful claim.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr Hs complaint comes to me to decide. He said, in 
summary:
he didnt knowingly purchase  PPI;
he wouldnt have bought the policy even  if he had a need for it because  he knew 
these policies were  a waste of money;
the policy features  and limitations werent  explained to him; and
he didnt give his consent to add the cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr H cant say much about the sale as he says PPI wasnt  explained to him, he didnt 
knowingly consent to take it out and wouldnt have done so, even  if he needed it.
Ive considered carefully BoS system records from the time of sale.  Having done so, I think it 
likely that the TMPP was added to Mr Hs account  at some time in the branch between 31 
August 2001,  when  his further  mortgage  advance application was started, and the 13 
September 2001, when the PPI commenced. I can see that Mr H signed  his further advance 
paperwork on 7 September 2001,  in front of a BoS mortgage advisor. I think  these system  
records can reasonably  relied on as they were made at the time and before this complaint 
was known about.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr H took out the insurance. BoS no longer 
has a copy of all of Mr Hs paperwork from the time of sale.  Banks  often only keep records  
Ref: DRN55237402for six years, and Mr Hs mortgage account closed  in 2003. So, its not surprising  that BoS 
no longer has all Mr Hs records.  
In order  to uphold Mr Hs complaint, Id have  to find that its more  likely that he wasnt given 
a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to his mortgage account without his consent.
BoS has shown  us a copy of the paperwork that it was using at the time to sell these 
policies. The paperwork made it clear that PPI was an optional and separate  product and 
gave the customer  the option to decide whether they wanted to buy it. I cant know 
whether paperwork  like this was used in Mr Hs case. But, I havent seen anything  that 
leads me to conclude  that BoS was using a different sales process  when the policy  was 
sold to him. So, I think it more likely that paperwork like this wouldve been used, and that 
Mr H probably  opted to take out PPI. I think thats  why PPI was added to his mortgage 
account around the same time as he took out the further mortgage advance,  and 
increased his level of borrowing. I also think probably there  was some discussion about  
the benefit options, I say this because critical illness and life cover was added at the same  
time.
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mr H wasnt given enough information about 
the optional nature of PPI to make an informed  choice that he wanted it, or that it was 
added without his consent. 
BoS says it recommended PPI to Mr H. I have  proceeded  on that basis as that means  
BoS had the added responsibility of ensuring  that the policy it was recommending  to Mr H 
was suitable for his needs. Whether this was a recommended sale or not, BoS also had to 
give Mr H information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so that he could make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for him and he wanted to buy it.
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
 Mr H appeared eligible to take out the cover.
 Mr H said he wouldve  got around  three  months worth of sick pay if he was 
unable to work. He also said he had savings  worth less than three months 
worth of his pay. He said his family  wouldve provided support. But, I still think  
TMPP couldve provided him with useful  protection. It wouldve paid out for up 
to 24 months  per successful claim, so considerably longer  than his work 
benefits wouldve  covered him for. It wouldve  also have paid out if he was 
made involuntarily unemployed.
 Mr H couldve  made repeated claims under the policy. So TMPP gave him 
long term protection  for his mortgage,  protecting his home. It wouldve allowed 
him to use his savings  to meet  his other  household expenses  and paid his 
mortgage; which it might have been  difficult for him to do if he wasnt  working. I 
cant see that his other resources made this policy unsuitable for him. And 
whilst I accept that his family  wouldve wanted  to help, help of this kind cant  
always be guaranteed when the time comes.  So, I havent placed much 
reliance on this, particularly given the period of cover Mr H had through  the 
policy. 
 Mr H said the policy features and limitations werent explained to him. There  
were some things  the policy didnt cover, for example  pre-existing  medical 
Ref: DRN55237403conditions. But, I cant  see that Mr H was affected  by these. So, I dont think 
having more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
his decision to take out the policy.
 Mr H paid a monthly  premium for TMPP. He didnt have to pay interest on the 
premium and couldve stopped  the policy at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant see that it was unaffordable.  So, I cant see that this wouldve 
put him off taking  out the cover.  Mr H said he knew these policies were  a waste 
of money. But, given Mr Hs other  resources  including his extended  borrowing, I 
cant see that the policy was unsuitable. Also, Ive concluded that more likely 
than not he was given a choice  and decided to take out the cover.
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided him with useful protection to 
safeguard his home.
Its possible there may have been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold. 
But, I think Mr H still wouldve decided  to buy the policy even if he had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave him useful  protection in his circumstances. I 
cant see that hes lost out because of anything that BoS may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5523740