K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that she gave property deeds and a will to Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds Bank)  
for safe-keeping, and that these documents were lost. 
background
Mrs H stored  her parents  will and the deeds  to two properties belonging to them,  with Lloyds 
Bank. When Mrs H asked  Lloyds Bank  to return the documents to her, it said they couldnt 
be found, so Mrs H complained.
Lloyds Bank  said it had made attempts to find the documents, but apologised they were lost. 
Due to its mistake, Lloyds  Bank offered to pay the costs of replacing  all of the lost 
documents, plus £500 in compensation. 
Mrs H was dissatisfied with Lloyds Banks  response  and brought  her complaint to us. 
She said she thought  Lloyds  Bank  hadnt tried hard enough to find her documents.  And said 
she was advised  by her solicitor that redrafting one of the deeds  which  was for an 
unregistered property   would likely be very complicated and time consuming. 
Also, Mrs H said the issue had caused stress  and worry to both her and her parents who 
own the properties relating to the lost deeds.  Mrs H explained that her parents are elderly 
and in poor health. And she said the issues around  the lost documents  had an adverse 
effect on her mothers health.  
She said Lloyds Banks offer didnt put back in her original position as if the documents 
hadnt been lost. She said this was due to the efforts she and her parents would have to go 
to in getting the items replaced. And she said she thought £500 wasnt enough 
compensation for this. 
I asked Lloyds Bank for some additional evidence  of the efforts it had undertaken to locate 
the missing documents. Shortly after this, it found that an item in Mrs Hs previous name  had 
since been logged  onto its system. Lloyds Bank  contacted  Mrs H and arranged for her to go 
to a branch to collect the item.
Mrs H said when she inspected the package in branch, she found it contained the missing 
will and deeds. But she said the package had been previously opened  and the contents had 
been damaged  by water. She said it seemed someone had made an attempt to dry the 
documents  she said plastic  wallets had been used and some items had been photocopied.  
Mrs H also said she was very upset that other sentimental documents  which  she believes 
were in the package  (such as plans and drawings  of the properties) were  lost due to the 
water damage and cant be replaced.  
Lloyds Bank  apologised for what had happened  and said it wanted to reach a settlement 
with Mrs H. Our investigator put this to Mrs H. She suggested a large amount of 
compensation, but said she wanted Lloyds Bank to make an offer for her to consider. Lloyds 
Bank said it would  pay the £500  it had already offered and asked  for an ombudsman  to 
make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN55994092my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision which said:
the will 
Prior to the lost documents being  found,  Lloyds Bank agreed to cover the costs of arranging 
replacements for the missing items  including Mrs Hs parents will. 
Mrs H had already arranged for the will to be redrafted before the package was found.  She 
provided evidence  of the costs and has been reimbursed by Lloyds Bank. Changes and 
updates were made to the will when it was redrafted, and Lloyds Bank agreed to pay the full 
costs. So, Im satisfied that the matter of the will has been fairly resolved.
the deeds
Lloyds Bank  previously offered to cover  the costs of arranging replacements  for the missing  
deeds. It didnt  agree to pay any costs related to registering the unregistered property with 
HM Land  Registry. I think this was fair, as the cost of registering the unregistered property 
would always have  been incurred by the property owners at some point. 
Since the missing  deeds were located,  although  damaged, Mrs H said they could be used by 
her solicitor  and didnt need  to be replaced. She said the damaged  state of the deeds had 
caused a delay, but no extra costs.  So I dont think Lloyds  Bank  needs to pay anything  in 
relation to the deeds. 
the loss and damage of the package  left with Lloyds Bank for safe-keeping 
Mrs H said she didnt think Lloyds Bank had tried hard enough  to find her missing 
documents. Ive seen  customer records from Lloyds Bank which show it made several 
attempts to track down  the documents through its storage provider. However, the documents 
were later located and logged, independently of the complaint, but Mrs H wasnt  contacted. 
Lloyds Bank  also failed to contact Mrs H when her documents  were found to be water 
damaged. This leads  me to think that Lloyds Bank didnt take very good care of Mrs Hs 
documents, and I think it should have done more to locate them.  
I recognise Mrs H has been put to a lot of inconvenience by the loss and damage  of the 
documents, and I understand  this has caused  her worry and stress. Also,  I appreciate how 
upset Mrs H has said she is that other personal  and sentimental items within the package, 
such as detailed drawings  and plans of the properties, are unsalvageable.  
I sympathise with the stress caused  to Mrs Hs parents as the owners of the properties 
relating to the missing deeds, although  theyre  not Lloyds Banks customers.  When  we look 
at compensation,  we can only award  amounts to the complainant,  so in this case  Mrs H. But 
we can consider how an impact on others has affected the complainant. 
The stress experienced by Mrs Hs parents  has an impact on Mrs H herself. And I accept 
that it must  have been very upsetting  for Mrs H to see her parents going through this. So, 
I think Lloyds Bank  should pay compensation for the overall  distress  and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs H. 
Having looked  at all of the evidence,  I consider  Lloyds Banks original offer to pay Mrs H
Ref: DRN55994093£500 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to her, is fair and reasonable. 
The original  offer was based on the missing  documents  being replaced and the 
inconvenience and delays which would be linked to this. Since  the documents were found, 
things have been resolved more quickly and with less inconvenience than if the documents  
had to be recreated. But, in addition to the disappointment over the loss of the documents,  
Mrs H suffered the further disappointment  of finding out theyd been damaged  once they 
were found.  So, I think  the amount of distress  and inconvenience caused  is similar. 
£500 is a significant amount of compensation, and Im not persuaded that it would be right in 
these circumstances  for me to direct Lloyds  Bank  to pay more.  I know  Mrs H believes Lloyds 
Bank can afford to pay more, but this is not what we base decisions on. Our role is to resolve 
disputes between  businesses and consumers. And when somethings  not gone  right,  to put 
the consumer  as close as possible to the position  they would have been in if an error hadnt 
been made. Our role isnt to punish  a business for something its done wrong.  
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mrs H responded and accepted the decision. Although she said she was still extremely 
disappointed in the way Lloyds Bank  had handled her documents.  And she said she felt she 
still hadnt been put back in the position she was in originally, as damaged  original 
documents such as property drawings,  cannot  be replaced. 
Lloyds Bank  accepted the decision and had nothing  further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Hs comments about  the additional documents  which were destroyed  and 
cannot be replaced. This is something  which I had already taken into account  when  I 
reached my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN55994094As both parties accepted my provisional  decision and didnt raise  anything new,  my decision 
remains as set out above. 
my final decision
Im aware that Lloyds  Bank PLC has made  an offer to pay £500.  I conclude that this offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  
pay Mrs H £500. This is in addition to the amount its already paid to cover the replacement 
of the will. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5599409