K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Scottish  Equitable Plc failed to deduct  commission correctly  and 
so mis-represented  the value of their investments.
 
background
Mr and Mrs D set up an investment bond with Scottish Equitable in 2008. They made  the 
investment through their financial adviser.  Mr and Mrs D agreed that their adviser would 
receive annual  commission  of 0.75%, deducted from the value  of the bond.
When Mr and Mrs D received  their 2018  annual statement,  it showed a significant  reduction 
in the value of their bond since the 2017  statement. Mr and Mrs D queried this several times 
with Scottish Equitable  but didnt think theyd  been given a satisfactory explanation.
Mr and Mrs D, and their representative, decided to make a formal complaint. In response,  
Scottish Equitable  explained that theyd  not been  paying the annual adviser commission 
since 2012, when  the name of the adviser business changed. They said theyd made the 
outstanding payments, totalling over £16,000,  and this had reduced the value of the bond. 
     
Scottish Equitable  accepted that theyd made a mistake in failing to pay the adviser 
commission for some years, and not deducting it from the value of the bond. They agreed 
that they should have  been in touch  with Mr and Mrs D once theyd  realised what  had 
happened. And that their response to Mr and Mrs Ds enquiries had been poor. 
Scottish Equitable  offered  to pay Mr and Mrs D £500  in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  to them. 
Mr and Mrs D complain that Scottish  Equitable should do more to put things right. 
They would accept  £500 as compensation for the poor experience  theyve had since  the 
matter came to light. But they think Scottish Equitable should bear the full value of the fees 
deducted because  the value of the bond was overstated for so long.  
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.  She thought Scottish  Equitables offer 
of £500 in compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Mr and Mrs D 
disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute over what Scottish Equitable did wrong to give rise to this complaint.  
When Mr and Mrs D set up their investment, they agreed their adviser should be paid an 
annual commission that would be deducted from the value of the bond. But between  2012 
and 2018, Scottish  Equitable failed to deduct the commission or pay anything to the adviser. 
So the value  of the bond reported to Mr and Mrs D was higher than it should have been. 
When Scottish Equitable  were notified  of their mistake, they paid the adviser the commission 
of over £16,000 that hadnt been  paid. I know that Mr and Mrs D have made a separate  
complaint about  their advisers, but thats not something Im looking at in this decision. 
Ref: DRN52217342The key point I need to consider is whether Scottish  Equitable have done enough to put 
things right. Where  a mistake has been made,  we expect a business to try and put a 
consumer back in the position they would have been  in had nothing gone  wrong.     
In this case, Scottish Equitable have  deducted  the commission from Mr and Mrs Ds bond. 
And the fund has been reconstructed  to reflect the position it would have  been  if the 
commission had been paid on time.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D think they are therefore  
bearing the full impact  of Scottish  Equitables  mistake. But what  Scottish Equitable  have 
done is put the fund back  in the position  it would have been  in had nothing gone  wrong. 
Mr and Mrs D say theyve also lost out because they didnt know the true value of their 
investment. If they had, they might  have reviewed their investments and made  different  
decisions. 
Ive thought carefully about how likely it is Mr and Mrs D would have decided to invest their 
funds differently. The annual commission was set at 0.75%, and Mr and Mrs D were 
expecting it to be deducted from their funds value  each year. Although  thats not an 
insignificant amount, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs D would have acted differently if it 
had been deducted as expected from their fund value each year.  
I appreciate that the cumulative impact of Scottish  Equitables mistake meant the value of 
Mr and Mrs Ds investment  was overstated by more than £16,000  by 2018. But overall  Ive 
not seen enough evidence that Mr and Mrs D would have acted differently if the commission  
had been deducted each  year, when it should  have been. 
So I think Scottish Equitable have  put Mr and Mrs Ds fund back in the position it would have 
been had the commission been  deducted  correctly. And I dont  think it would be fair for me to 
ask Scottish Equitable  to reimburse  the commission thats now been  paid,  or do anything  
further in respect  of the value of the fund. 
Ive also looked  at Scottish Equitables  actions  once theyd corrected their mistake. 
They accept they should have contacted Mr and Mrs D and explained clearly what  had 
happened. Instead, it was only after making several  calls, and then a formal  complaint, that 
Mr and Mrs D received  a satisfactory  explanation. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has said theyre  vulnerable consumers and Scottish Equitable  
didnt take account of that. Hes also said Scottish Equitable  have breached a number of the 
FCAs principles for businesses by their mistakes and their failure  to put things  right. 
Ive looked at everything Mr and Mrs D (and their representative) have said, and thought 
carefully about whether Scottish  Equitable  should  do more  to compensate  them. Ive taken 
account of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  and the trouble  and upset caused to them.  
But overall I think Scottish Equitables offer of £500 in compensation is fair and reasonable.
I realise this wont be the decision Mr and Mrs D were hoping  for. But I wont be asking  
Scottish Equitable  to pay further compensation to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Scottish Equitable  Plcs  
offer of £500 in compensation to be fair and reasonable . 
Ref: DRN52217343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5221734