K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss A says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2002.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss A owed on her store card. The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss A couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss A that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ive been given a copy of the application  form 
completed at the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account 
Cover  the name used by FICL for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want 
to take out Account Cover. Miss A has signed  the section to confirm she wanted the cover.  If 
Miss A didnt want to take out the PPI she could  have  left this section blank. And Miss A has 
signed the overall application form which suggests  it reflected what she wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Miss A 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to 
Miss A. So it didnt  have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need to make 
sure it gave Miss A clear enough  information about  the policy to enable her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Miss A 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware. 
Ref: DRN50834722Miss A has told us that she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to 
work and she had some savings that she could have  used if she wasnt working.  But this 
policy would have paid out in addition to her sick pay, and potentially for longer. And it would 
have enabled  her to protect her savings for another purpose or use them  to cover other 
essential living expenses. So I think this could have  provided a useful benefit to her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Miss A has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
Miss A has also complained about the way FICL handled her complaint. She says she was 
initially told she didnt have PPI and was then incorrectly referred to a different company to 
make her complaint. I appreciate Miss A is unhappy about this and understand why this 
situation would have been quite  frustrating for her. But Im also conscious that it can 
sometimes be difficult to locate the details of sales which occurred such  a long time ago. 
FICL has accepted  it did make mistakes with Miss As complaint but Im pleased  to note that 
once she resubmitted  the complaint, this was handled within a reasonable timeframe.  So 
while I think it could have  handled things better I dont think FICL needs to do anything 
further to put things  right.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083472