K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out alongside a credit card in 1997. Mrs L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds doesnt  have any paperwork Mrs L would have completed  at the time but it has 
provided a sample  copy of the application  form Mrs L is likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy  
and then sign separately. Ive thought about what I know about how Lloyds sold these types 
of policies at the time, alongside  what Mrs L has told us. And having done this, I think  its 
unlikely Lloyds would have added the PPI without Mrs L indicating she wanted it. But I can 
understand why Miss L cant remember taking the policy now.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs L says she had sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. The PPI would  
have paid out in addition  to any employee  benefits  which would have meant she could have 
used her benefits to pay for other essential  costs. So she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Overall I dont think Mrs L has lost out by anything Lloyds might have done wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347836