K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr B payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. This isnt 
surprising or unreasonable as a business  wouldnt expect  to have to keep such documents 
for so many years after a mortgage  has ended. 
Also I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that happened  over 18 years 
ago when the application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr B says he wasnt aware of the PPI and says it was wrapped-up/bundled in and lost 
within the actual  product  that I had intended  to purchase  which  was just a loan. 
However it would  not be fair for me to conclude  that Lloyds acted wrongly  in this way, 
unless I had some supporting evidence that this happened. 
Lloyds probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Being  unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr B received any employer  sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have 
put off the time when he would need  to fall back on any savings. This all would have put 
Mr B in a more secure position, if he eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr B took the PPI.
Ref: DRN54048562Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr B would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely he was eligible for the 
policy, and hed be paying for it monthly, so he could  cancel it at any time without further  
cost if his situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404856