K821x#15complaint
Mrs B (a representative) on behalf  of the estate of Mr T complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited
trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge Finance) were irresponsible  in approving a hire
purchase agreement  for Mr T; as she says, at the time, he was terminally  ill, and the credit
agreement was unaffordable.
The estate  of Mr T at the beginning  of the complaint had a different representative, but for
simplicity, I refer to all submissions as though made  by or to Mrs B.
background
In March 2017, Mr T acquired  a used car which was financed using a hire purchase
agreement from Northridge Finance. The car had a total cash  price of approximately
£14,100. The total charge  for credit  was around £4,600, so the total amount payable was
approximately £18,700. Mr T paid a deposit of £500 making  the balance  payable around
£18,200. The monthly repayments  were  around £300 over a 60-month period.
Mr T passed away in February  2018,  when the car was recovered and, a few months  later,
sold at an auction  by Northridge Finance, there  was a deficit  of approximately £4,800 for the
estate of Mr T to pay.
Mrs B says that Mr T at the time of the car purchase could only walk a very short distance,
unsteadily, and could  only read with a strong  magnifying glass.  She says there  was no way
in which  Mr T was ever going  to be able to drive the car. She says that a third party (who I
will refer to as Mr X) accompanying Mr T was the one that would be driving the car. Mrs B
says that Mr X had no credit, so Mr T took out the finance in his name. Mrs B says that just
over a week after the sale Mr X became the cars  registered keeper with DVLA.  Mrs B says
that Mr T was only able to sustain  the payments of the hire purchase  agreement provided
that Mr X paid him the instalments due each  month, and when Mr T passed away, Mr X
simply dumped the car leaving the estate of Mr T responsible for the remainder of the
amount owing on the credit agreement; after the car was sold at the auction. Mrs B says that
had the dealership disclosed  Mr Ts dependency on Mr X to Northridge Finance, then further
enquiry into Mr Ts health would have been  made, and the application  for credit would have
been scrutinised  more  carefully. This, she says, would have highlighted that Mr T was so 
stretched that, unless  Mr X reimbursed him monthly, Mr T simply did not have the money  to 
meet the commitment without himself incurring further  debt.
Also, Mrs B says the checks done by Northridge Finance clearly did not reveal the true
extent of late Mr T's indebtedness to other parties.  She says that one of the obligations was
a substantial hire purchase  agreement already  running on another car, so Northridge surely
should have raised some  queries as to why Mr T was undertaking another  financially heavy
car commitment. Mrs B thinks that, given  that the hire purchase  agreement was for a
material sum of money, Northridge Finance should have done checks with Mr Ts bank.
Northridge Finance  in December 2018  responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They
said that they provide a functionality whereby when a dealership is submitting an application
for finance, the dealership  can alert them of potential change in circumstances of the
borrowers ability to repay during the life of the credit agreement. Northridge Finance say this
indicator was set to N, so they say they had no reason to ask additional  questions. They
also say Mr T was with his employer for 13 and half years, and his salary  was proposed to
be £5,200 per month. Northridge Finance  say Mr T also held a bank account with an
Ref: DRN51571682institution which only accepts clients once stringent financial requirements are met. So, they
said that, based on this information  and information from a credit  reference agency, Mr Ts
application for credit was approved. Northridge Finance  went on to say that they have not
acted in any way irresponsibly  based  on the information available to them.  However,
considering the difficult time this must have been for Mr Ts family,  they offered to reduce the
liability from around £4,800 to £3,000.
Mrs B was not happy with this outcome and thinks that Northridge Finance should  write off
the entire outstanding balance, so she referred  the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld.
Northridge Finance  disagreed  with the investigator.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2021, explaining 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In the provisional decision I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amongst other things, Ive considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
When looking at this type of a complaint, I need to consider two main questions  in order  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. The first question  
is:
1. Did Northridge Finance  complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that Mr T would be able to repay the borrowing  in a sustainable way?
a. If reasonable and proportionate checks were  completed,  did Northridge 
Finance make a fair lending decision bearing  in mind the information gathered 
and what they knew about Mr Ts circumstances?
b. If reasonable and proportionate checks werent  completed, would such 
checks have shown  that Mr T would be able to sustainably  repay  the 
borrowing?
The second  question I need to consider is:
2. Did Northridge Finance  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
And, if I think Mr T has been  disadvantaged in any way by Northridge Finances actions, Ill 
then consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did Northridge  Finance  complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  themselves 
that Mr T would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN51571683Northridge Finance  were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks of Mr 
Ts ability to repay the borrowing  in a sustainable  way. These sometimes called affordability 
checks needed to be borrower-focussed (considering Mr Ts specific circumstances), and in 
addition to a creditworthiness assessment, to see if he could have afforded to repay  the 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, Northridge Finance needed to consider the impact of 
any credit  payments on Mr T and not just the likelihood of getting  their money back.
There is no set list of checks  Northridge Finance needed to complete. But the checks should  
have been proportionate  to the circumstances, and what  is reasonable and proportionate will 
vary depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to:
-the amount  of credit;
-the duration (or likely duration)  of the credit;
-the frequency of the repayments;
-the amounts  of repayments;
-the total amount payable;
-the total charge for credit; and
-the consumers  individual circumstances.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable  and proportionate check  
ought to be.
Ive considered that the total amount  payable was approximately  £18,700, the monthly 
repayments were around £300 over a 60-month period. Considering this was a relatively 
long-term commitment, and considering  the size of the borrowing, I believe that the 
assessment of affordability  ought to have  been  relatively thorough.
Northridge Finance  say that Mr T was with his employer for 13 and half years and held a 
bank account  with an institution  which only accepts  clients  once stringent financial 
requirements are met. They say Mr T had a significant income  declared  at the time as 
£5,200 net monthly. He was able to service a mortgage account without issue of around 
£3,400 per month. A hire purchase agreement that he had for another car at the time of 
application was £1,420  per month, and the payment for the car he was taking  out under this 
hire purchase agreement would only be around £300 per month.  They said that based on 
this and information from a credit  reference  agency,  Mr Ts application for credit was 
approved.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit information Northridge Finance had and relied  on at the time of 
making the lending decision. It shows that Mr T had:
-A mortgage monthly payment  of approximately £3,400 with 252 payments remaining; 
-One credit facility with a credit limit of £12,000  and current  balance of around 
£10,100;
Ref: DRN51571684-One credit facility with a credit limit of £30,000  and current  balance of approximately 
£22,400;
-One credit facility with a current balance of approximately £500; and
-A hire purchase agreement with a monthly  payment of £1,420 with 37 payments 
remaining.
Most of these credit commitments were managed well, but the hire purchase agreement  and 
one of the credit facilities had some adverse information recorded  (recent  late payments). I 
think this should  have raised some  concerns for Northridge  Finance at the time and alerted it 
to do some further checks prior to agreeing to lend to Mr T. 
Also, if we add the mortgage payment of around  £3,400 to the £1,420 (existing hire 
purchase agreement), this would put Mr Ts monthly outgoings at around £4,820. 
Considering that his net monthly income declared on the credit  application  was £5,200,  this 
would leave him only about £380 for all other monthly outgoings. But the £4,820  figure also 
doesnt take into consideration a repayment amount towards three credit facilities which Mr T 
had access to at the time. These credit facilities had a total credit limit of around £42,000, so 
I think any reasonable estimate  of what a sustainable repayment on these, Mr T might have 
been required to make, would have been  around  £1,750. That would mean  that the 
expenditures of Mr T were higher than his income at the time; on a monthly basis leaving 
him with a around  £1,370  in the negative. So, based  on this information  I dont think 
Northridge Finance  were able to reasonably  conclude that Mr T was able to meet  a further 
£300 or so repayment commitment that he was signing up to.
I understand that Northridge  Finance  feels that the £1,420  existing hire purchase agreement 
for the other  car should not be included  in the above calculation  because,  they say, it is very 
unusual for a customer to need two cars, especially in light of Mr T's personal/family  status 
at the time (divorced,  with no dependants).  They say that normal practice  is that the existing 
hire purchase agreement would have been settled, and, they say, it is reasonable to 
determine that this new hire purchase  agreement was taken out to replace his existing hire 
purchase agreement.  However, on the credit  application there is no mention that the other  
hire purchase agreement was going  to be settled, or that Mr T was going to part exchange 
his other  car. So, I dont  think it would be reasonable for Northridge Finance to assume this 
without doing  further checks.  And even  if the £1,420 hire purchase agreement  was not 
included, which I dont  think  would  be reasonable without  doing further checks,  that would 
still only leave Mr T with only about £50 for all other  monthly outgoings.  So, I dont think  
Northridge Finance  were able to reasonably  conclude that he would be able to meet  a 
further £300 or so car commitment.
In addition, I think Northridge  Finance ought  to have done more  to understand Mr Ts other 
commitments and expenditures. I say this because outside of his credit  commitments,  
Northridge Finance  didnt know what other  committed expenditure Mr T had. On the credit 
application there isnt any mention of how much  he was spending  for things  such as car 
insurance, maintenance, road tax, petrol,  for his existing car or any mention of how much  he 
was spending  for food and other  living essential  items. So, I dont think Northridge Finance 
could reasonably conclude that the credit  agreement was affordable and sustainable for Mr 
T without this information. 
Overall, I dont  think Northridge Finance carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
As well as asking him about his committed expenditure, I think  it would have been 
Ref: DRN51571685reasonable for them to have also verified Mr Ts income, given how indebted he appeared to 
be with other  creditors. 
Northridge Finance  has mentioned  to our service that if Mr T did not have enough  
disposable income to maintain the hire purchase  agreement in question, it is reasonable to 
conclude he would not have been  able to maintain monthly repayments for nearly a year - 
until he unfortunately passed  away. But this does not absolve  Northridge Finance from the 
requirement to carry out a reasonable and proportionate checks  of Mr Ts ability to repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable way in the first place. And, it seems,  that the reason  why Mr T 
was able to keep up with the payments for almost  a year was because Mr X was reimbursing 
Mr T for the car payments; as evidenced on Mr Ts bank  statements provided by Mrs B. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr T could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I think it would have  been reasonable for Northridge  Finance to find out more  information 
about Mr Ts financial circumstances  at the time.  I cant  be certain what  evidence,  
information or what questions Northridge Finance would have asked and reviewed. 
However, Ive been provided with a copy of Mr Ts bank  statements from the time of 
borrowing, and Ive reviewed these, as well as Mr Ts credit  file, to get an understanding of 
what his commitments  were likely to be. In absence of anything else,  I think  the information 
available from the bank statements were a reasonable indicator of the substance of 
evidence or information Northridge Finance would have likely found out about Mr Ts income  
and expenditure,  had they completed  reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of 
borrowing.  
On the credit  application, Mr T had a net monthly  declared income  of £5,200  but, based on 
the name of the employer listed in the credit application, there is only one payment from this 
employer in December  on his bank statements. Also, this payment is only for about half of 
the £5,200 declared income  amount. I can see, from the bank statements, that there is 
another amount that is credited to his account  on a monthly basis from a similar type of an 
employer. This amount  is higher  than the £5,200 declared on the credit application as it is 
approximately £7,400. So, Mr Ts bank statements show his income was actually much 
higher than he declared on the application form  around £7,400 per month. However, it is 
not clear if this was net or gross of tax. So, it is possible  Mr Ts income was £5,200 per 
month. In any event, I dont think it matters  which monthly figure Northridge Finance would 
have used had they verified his income, as I think the car finance loan was unaffordable 
even if the higher figure of £7,400 was used.
From the bank statements I can also see that Mr T had several commitments that he was 
regularly paying.  These included  some  regular direct debit payments for things such as 
phone bills, insurances, bank account fee, and various memberships/subscriptions. It 
appears that these  ongoing commits totalled around £780 a month.  To this we need  to add a 
repayment amount  for his credit  facilities. As mentioned above, I think a reasonable estimate  
of what a sustainable repayment  on these,  Mr T might have been  required to make, would  
have been around £1,750. Adding his mortgage repayment of around  £3,400,  and his 
existing hire purchase repayment  of £1,420, this brings the total to about £7,350 a month. 
Considering his declared net monthly  income  was £5,200,  Mr T on a monthly  basis would be 
left with around £2,150 in the negative,  before considering the approximate £300 for the 
Northridge Finance  credit agreement. As such he would have had no disposable income left. 
If we include this approximate £300,  Mr T would be left with around £2,450 in the negative 
each month. And, even  if we consider the higher amount stated  on his bank statements 
Ref: DRN51571686(approximately £7,400) as his net declared  income  Mr T would still be left with around 
£250 in the negative. This means he would be left with no money to cover other expenses, 
such as essential  day to day expenses for food and clothing.
I know that once  again  Northridge Finance would make the argument  that the £1,420 
repayment for Mr Ts existing  hire purchase  agreement should not be included  in the above 
calculations. But as I explained earlier, on the credit  application there is no mention that the 
other hire purchase agreement was going  to be settled, or that Mr T was going to part 
exchange his other  car. So, I dont think it would be reasonable  for Northridge Finance to 
assume this without doing further checks.  And I think that, had Northridge Finance done 
further checks, they most likely would have found  out that this hire purchase agreement was 
not going to be settled,  and that Mr T would  still be obligated to keep making these 
payments. 
Taking everything into consideration, had Northridge Finance done  more to establish  Mr Ts 
financial circumstances by carrying out reasonable and proportionate  checks,  I dont think  
they would  have lent to him. From the above  it is clear that Northridge  Finance  credit 
agreement was not affordable, and Mr T could not sustainably repay this borrowing.
Did Northridge  Finance  act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Mrs B says that Mr T, at the time of the car purchase,  could only walk a very short distance, 
unsteadily, and could  only read with a strong  magnifying glass.  She says there  was no way 
in which  Mr T was ever going  to be able to drive the car. She says that Mr X, who was 
accompanying Mr T was the one that would be driving the car, and that a week after the sale 
he became the cars registered keeper with DVLA. She says checks would  have also 
revealed that both Mr T and Mr X owned their own cars, and had the dealership  disclosed Mr 
Ts dependency on Mr X to Northridge Finance, then further inquiry  to Mr Ts health would 
have been made, and the application  for credit would have been scrutinised more carefully. 
Mrs B also says that Mr X was known to the dealership where the transaction  took place.    
Northridge Finance  say they provide  a functionality whereby when a dealership is submitting 
an application for finance, the dealership can alert them  of potential change  in circumstances 
of the borrowers  ability to repay  during the life of the credit agreement. Northridge Finance 
say this indicator  was set to N, so they say they had no reason to ask additional questions. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  says that any representations made by the 
credit broker  (in this case the dealership) are made in their capacity as agent of the finance
provider (Northridge Finance). So, Northridge  Finance can be held responsible for the 
actions of the dealership when it brokered the finance agreement for Mr T.
Based on Mr Ts bank statement I can see that Mr X was transferring an amount  equivalent  
to the car payment  into Mr Ts account  on a monthly basis.  Also,  in March 2018, Mr X 
confirmed to Northridge Finance that he was the one making  the payments. So, it does 
seem the car was purchased for Mr Xs use. Therefore, Ive considered that Mr T actually 
wasnt going to be paying any of the costs associated with the car. And it seems  that 
Northridge Finance  was not made  aware  of this arrangement. They also only found out that 
Mr X was the registered keeper in August 2017. But, had they done reasonable and 
proportionate checks, at the time of the credit  application, it would have led Northridge 
Finance to conclude  that either:
Ref: DRN51571687a)Mr T couldnt  sustainably afford  to repay  this borrowing, so they should  not have 
approved this credit agreement (as mentioned earlier). Or; 
b)By asking more question and performing  further  checks, they would have realised 
who would be paying for the car and who would have  use of it. In which  case, they 
ought to have considered how sustainable  it also was for Mr X, or, more  than likely, 
to have insisted  that he be party to the agreement, considering that the car was 
purchased for his use. But I think that Mr X was unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay the credit, because if he could he most likely  would have  taken out the 
agreement in his own name. This is supported by what  Mrs B has mentioned about 
him having no credit and that is the reason why Mr T took the finance out in his own 
name. So, I think, had Northridge Finance been aware of the arrangement between 
Mr T and Mr X, it is more likely than not that they would not have approved this 
borrowing.
So, considering the above, I think had Northridge Finance carried  out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, they would not have  lent to Mr T.
Ive considered that Mr T knowingly  took out an agreement  for someone else, which is a 
breach of the credit agreement terms. But, I do not think that he was aware of the 
implications of this, and I think that when he entered into the agreement he did so on 
genuine basis believing it was ok for him to do so. I think most likely when Mr T was applying 
for credit, he did tell the dealership about the fact that it was Mr X that would be driving the 
car due to his health problems. But the dealership  just failed to inform  Northridge Finance of 
this. I say this because it doesnt seem like Mr T kept his health matters a secret. This is 
evident by him freely  talking about  his eyesight problem with Northridge Finance, and 
allowing them  to take note of this on their system  when he spoke with them in August 2017. 
And, if he did not tell the dealership, I think most  likely the dealership  should  have realised  
that he was showing  signs of vulnerability while at the dealership. I say this because based 
on how Mrs B describes his state of health,  at the time, I think most  likely the dealership 
would notice the difficulties he was experiencing with his eyesight and walking, which would 
have flagged to them that potentially he would not be the one driving  the car. So, I think the 
dealership acted unfairly by allowing Mr T to enter into the credit  agreement knowing that it 
would breach the terms, and I think it would have been reasonable for them to explain to him 
that the credit agreement  was not suitable  for his needs.
But even if the dealership  didnt know about  his health problems and about the fact that he 
would not be the one driving the car, I think Northridge Finance ought to have found this out, 
had it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ts ability  to sustainably repay 
the borrowing  or at least conclude  he couldnt afford the borrowing.  Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me that Mr T intended  to deceive Northridge Finance, and, had they 
asked more question  and performed the further checks they were  required to do, Mr Ts 
estate wouldnt now be in this position. 
So, I think that it is Northridge Finances, and/or the dealerships (its agents), actions that 
have mainly contributed  to this situation. They have not done adequate checks to assess 
whether Mr T could sustainably afford the borrowing  and whether this credit agreement was 
suitable for his needs. 
Putting things right
Ref: DRN51571688It seems  that Mr T had no use of the car as it was Mr X that was driving it. And from the 
above we know  that Mr X was the one making  the payments and most likely driving the car 
at all the times. 
After Mr T passed away the car was sold at an auction  by Northridge Finance and there was 
a deficit of approximately £4,800 for the estate of Mr T to pay. Considering the difficult time 
this must have been for Mr Ts family, Northridge Finance offered to reduce the liability  to 
£3,000. But, as I mentioned above,  I dont  think  that Mr T should have been given this credit 
agreement, so I think the position needs to change to one where the agreement  would never  
have been entered into in the first place. So, I think the credit agreement should  be ended  
with nothing further to pay. 
In similar  situations I may have also asked for a refund of all payments which have been  
made, including the initial  deposit,  minus a deduction for any use of the car. But considering 
the circumstances of this case this would not be a fair resolution, because  it seems Mr T 
wasnt the one using the car. He has also not lost out financially as it was Mr X that was 
reimbursing him for the monthly  payments  made.
Therefore, Northridge Finance can retain  all money  paid towards the agreement.  I note that 
Northridge Finance  most  likely could have received  a higher amount for the car had it been 
returned in a bit better  quality. However,  considering  that I am saying that they can keep the 
initial deposit, plus approximately  a years worth of monthly payments, I think this will more 
than cover any loss incurred by them. It would also not be fair or reasonable to hold Mr Ts 
estate responsible for any such losses as it was not Mr T that was driving the car. 
In addition, considering that I dont think that Mr T should have been given this credit  
agreement, in these situations ordinarily, I would say that it would not be fair or accurate to 
record any adverse information  on his credit  file. And also,  the agreement should  not be 
recorded as satisfied, as in ordinary  circumstances it may give potentially misleading 
impression to future lenders. I understand that this might not be relevant as Mr T is 
deceased, but I think that for completeness the credit  agreement should be removed from 
his credit file entirely. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im planning  to uphold this complaint and direct N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited trading  as Northridge Finance  to:
-End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay.
-Remove the agreement entirely  from Mr Ts credit file.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments  or information  they would 
like me to consider  by 25 February 2021.     
Mrs B on behalf of the estate of Mr T replied  and said she has nothing further to add. 
Northridge Finance  replied disagreeing with my provisional decision and provided  further  
submissions. I will address these in my findings  below.
Ref: DRN51571689my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Northridge  Finance questioned why our service  focused 
on affordability when  Mr Ts estate asked our service to consider the decision made  by 
Northridge Finance  to approve  Mr T for finance  in light of his health instead.  But from the 
correspondence provided by both parties,  I can see that Northridge Finance, when dealing  
with this complaint  before  it was even  referred to our service, were corresponding with Mrs B 
about both aspects; health  of Mr T and affordability. I can see that Northridge Finance 
addressed the affordability aspects in their final response letter.  
Also, Mrs B while corresponding with Northridge  Finance,  questioned why they relied  for 
formal comfort only on a credit file enquiry. And talked  about how their checks should have 
disclosed detail about Mr Ts mortgage, as well as second substantial loan secured on his 
house. Mrs B wrote  in correspondence to them, that surly Mr Ts indebtedness  should have 
suggested to them to check on his status at the bank. In addition, Mrs B had made  
statements on our complaint form that, had Northridge  Finance requested  bank references, 
they would  have learnt that Mr T had had credit withdrawn by his bank. So, taking  the above 
into consideration, and the circumstances of this complaint, I think it was fair and reasonable 
for our service  to look at whether Northridge Finance were  irresponsible  in approving this 
hire purchase agreement for Mr T because he was terminally  ill, and the affordability of the 
credit agreement.
Northridge Finance,  in response  to my provisional decision, also questioned why on one 
hand Mrs B has stated Mr T was never  going to be able to drive  a car because  of his health  
but followed up with a line that Mr T owned his own car. They say that Mr T informed them in 
August 2017 that Mr X is his driver  due to his partial  sight. So, they say, it is clear this was a 
mutual agreement between Mr T and Mr X. Mr T told Northridge in August 2017 his partial  
sightedness was progressive, and he was able to drive during daylight hours but not at night 
time. So, they say, no other medical/health related issues were provided to them.  They go 
on to say that looking at the timeline of events this is patently  an accommodation deal. The 
car appeared to be for Mr X. Mrs B also says that Mr X was known  to the dealership  where 
the transaction took place. So, they say Northridge Finance is therefore a victim of 
application fraud, (fronting) which they say is clearly  against the terms and conditions of the 
finance agreement. They say there is nothing in any of the investigations that indicate  that 
Mr T arranged this under duress, and they say the fact that Mr X was paying the payments 
to Mr Ts bank  account, would confirm  this was a mutual arrangement.  They  say the benefits  
of the finance  agreement  had been transferred to Mr X without their knowledge, and, if Mr X 
wished to finance a car, he should have done so in his own name,  yet Mr T and Mr X 
between them applied for finance in Mr Ts name  with the knowledge that Mr T would not be 
using the car. Northridge Finance go on to say that if they were faced with the same/similar  
issue going forward, they are unsure what they could  have  done  differently.  
Ive taken these  points into consideration, but as I already mentioned  in my provisional  
decision, I think had Northridge  Finance  carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, 
they would  not have  lent to Mr T. And I know  that it does seem  that Mr T knowingly took out 
an agreement for Mr X, which is a breach of the credit agreement  terms. But, as I mentioned  
in my provisional decision,  I do not think that he was aware of the implications of this, and I 
think that when  he entered into the finance  agreement, Mr T did so on genuine basis 
believing it was ok for him to do so. 
Ref: DRN515716810Also, I think most likely Mr T did tell the dealership that it was Mr X that would be driving the 
car due to his health problems, but the dealership failed to inform  Northridge Finance of this. 
I say this because  on balance it doesnt  seem  like Mr T kept his health  matters a secret, as 
was evident by him freely talking about  his eyesight  problem with Northridge Finance later 
and allowing them to take note of this on their system. And, if he did not tell the dealership,  I 
still think most likely  the dealership should  have realised that he was showing signs  of 
vulnerability while at the dealership. Considering how Mrs B describes  his state of health, at 
the time,  I think most  likely  the dealership would notice the difficulties he was experiencing 
with his eyesight and walking, which would  have flagged  to them  that potentially  he would 
not be the one driving the car. That is why I still think the dealership  acted unfairly by 
allowing him to enter into the agreement, knowing that it would breach the terms. And, I 
think, it would have been reasonable for them to explain to him that the credit agreement  
was not suitable for his needs. 
Also, Northridge Finance  can be held responsible for the actions of the dealership when it 
brokered the finance agreement for Mr T. This is because section 56 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 says that any representations made  by the credit broker  (in this case the 
dealership) are made in their capacity as agent  of the finance provider (in this case  
Northridge Finance).  
On another note,  if the dealership didnt know about  Mr Ts health problems, and didnt know 
about the fact that Mr T would not be the one driving the car, I think  Northridge Finance  
ought to have found this out, had it carried  out reasonable and proportionate checks on his 
ability to sustainably repay the finance; or at least come to the decision  that he couldnt 
afford the borrowing. And as I mentioned in the provisional decision,  Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me that Mr T intended  to deceive Northridge Finance, so had more 
question been  asked and had further checks been done as were  required, I dont think Mr 
Ts estate would now be in this position.  
Overall, I still dont  think adequate checks to assess  whether  Mr T could sustainably afford 
the borrowing, and whether this credit agreement was suitable  for his needs, were  done. 
And, I still think  that it is the actions of Northridge Finance, and/or the dealership  (their  
agent), that have  mainly contributed to this situation.
Ref: DRN515716811my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance to:
-End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay.
-Remove the agreement entirely  from Mr Ts credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before 11 April 2021.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157168