K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc sent correspondence  about her loan 
account to an old address  after shed  given it her new address.
background
Miss H has a number of accounts with Bank  of Scotland including  a loan. In 2018 she moved 
house on two occasions and notified  Bank  of Scotland of her new address each time. In 
December 2018  the occupiers of one of her old addresses contacted  her saying a letter  for 
her had been sent to that address. The letter was from Bank of Scotland  and related to her 
loan.
Miss H complained to Bank of Scotland that it was sending confidential correspondence to 
her old address. It said Miss Hs address  hadnt  been updated on all of its systems. It agreed 
to pay Miss H £150 to compensate her for the inconvenience shed suffered.
Miss H wasnt  happy with Bank of Scotlands  response  and referred her complaint to this 
service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Bank of 
Scotland had dealt  with the complaint fairly and the compensation of £150 was reasonable.
Miss H didnt accept our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss H told Bank of Scotland shed  moved house she was entitled to expect it would 
update its records  for all her accounts. It didnt do this and its service was below the 
standard to which Miss H was entitled. I now need  to consider if the compensation Bank  of 
Scotland has paid Miss H is sufficient to cover  the trouble and upset shes suffered.
Miss H hasnt said the letter from Bank of Scotland had been opened or that confidential 
information about her was disclosed  to a third party. She says she could have serious 
problems if her address  became known to her ex-boyfriend. But, fortunately, that hasnt 
happened. The address  to which Bank  of Scotland sent the letter wasnt  the ex-boyfriends  
address and it didnt  disclose  Miss Hs new address. The occupants  of the address  to which  
the letter was sent were  able to contact Miss H and pass the letter  to her.
In all the circumstances Im not persuaded Miss H has suffered any financial loss or material 
trouble and upset  as a result of Bank of Scotlands  error. Consequently I think  the 
compensation of £150 shes already been  paid is fair and reasonable. Im not going to 
require Bank  of Scotland to pay her any more.
Ref: DRN51908662my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5190866