K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background
Mr and Mrs D were contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as G, which supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a meeting, they agreed to enter in a contract with G 
for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing around £12,300. To fund this, they 
also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim under  section  75 (s75)  of the CCA via their representative. The 
representative said that G had told Mr and Mrs D that the solar panels  would be self-funded 
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments  had been  much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook said it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels  had 
been misrepresented  to Mr and Mrs D. Unhappy with this response,  they referred  their 
complaint to this service.
The first investigator that reviewed the complaint agreed with Shawbrook that the complaint  
shouldnt be upheld. Following further involvement from this service, Shawbrook made an 
offer to resolve this complaint. It said it had worked out the potential savings and income 
from the solar panel system to Mr and Mrs D over the term of the loan. It then offered to 
restructure the loan,  so they didnt pay any more  than this over the 10 year term of the loan. 
It also offered to pay Mr and Mrs D £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs D, via their representative, accepted the offer in part. They explained that as 
their system hadnt been self-funding, theyd taken out a new loan, with a lower interest rate 
to pay off the original  loan with Shawbrook. They asked our service  to take this into 
consideration.
One of our investigators  thought that Shawbrook should also refund Mr and Mrs D the 
interest that they had been  charged  on the loan theyd  taken  out to settle  the Shawbrook 
loan.
Shawbrook didnt agree,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were cold-called  and during a subsequent sales  meeting told 
that the solar  panels would be entirely self-financing.  Neither Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs D 
dispute that the benefits of the solar panels  were misrepresented  by G. As a result,  this 
decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  and with minimum formality. In cases  like 
Ref: DRN50777212this one, determining  fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Self-funding offer
Im satisfied that a fair outcome is to put Mr and Mrs D in a position where the panels are 
self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs D to keep the panels, 
Im satisfied that they will likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills and FIT payments going 
forward.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been  shared with Mr 
and Mrs Ds representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr and Mrs Ds solar panel system.
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs Ds solar panel system it will use a number of assumptions. These  include  a self-
consumption rate of 37%, electricity price inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated 
retail price  index (RPI). Im of the view that these appear reasonable taking into account the 
actual known figures. As an example,  the actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  
seem to be far from the assumed figure.  Im satisfied  that the assumptions that have been 
used by Shawbrook  provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that the offer to make the panels self-funding, over the term of the 
original loan is fair.
Ill now consider the loan that Mr and Mrs D used to refinance the Shawbrook  loan.
Refinanced loan
Mr and Mrs D have explained to this service that when  it was clear that their solar  panel 
system wasnt  self-funding, they paid off their Shawbrook loan by taking out a separate loan 
with a new lender  at a lower interest rate. This was to mitigate  their losses.  The total interest 
they were charged  on this new loan was around £630.
Our investigator thought that Shawbrook  should  refund Mr and Mrs D the interest they were 
charged on their new loan. Shawbrook disagreed and said that it was satisfied its current 
methodology, as outlined  above, provided a fair and reasonable  basis for calculating  
compensation.
Ive thought carefully on this point. Having done  so, Ive agreed  with our investigators  view 
on this. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs D were induced to enter  into the contract with G based  on the misrepresentation 
that the solar  panel system  would be self-funding.  When they realised  this the benefits  
werent sufficient to cover their monthly  loan repayments, they wanted to mitigate their 
losses and refinanced their Shawbrook loan with another lender  at a lower  interest  rate.
Im satisfied that if Mr and Mrs Ds solar panel system had been  self-funding, they wouldnt 
have refinanced their Shawbrook loan. This is because they entered into the contract with G 
Ref: DRN50777213on the understanding that the system  would pay for itself and any income  and savings 
received from their solar  panels would have been sufficient to meet their monthly loan 
repayments. 
So, if this had happened as they had been  led to believe,  Im of the view that they wouldnt 
have taken out a new loan and incurred around  an additional £630 interest as the system 
benefits would have been in line with what they expected  when they originally entered  into 
the contract.
Shawbrook has already accepted that the benefits  of the solar  panel system were  
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs D. And due to this misrepresentation,  Mr and Mrs D have  
ended up paying  around an additional  £630 in interest on their refinanced loan,  which they 
took out to mitigate their losses.  Im of the view that this additional  interest forms part of the 
overall cost of their solar panel  system. This is because the new loan they took out was 
solely for the purpose of paying  off the Shawbrook loan and this is evidenced through  the 
loan statements I have  been provided.  Therefore, the interest on their new loan was only 
incurred when Mr and Mrs D wanted mitigated  their losses from the solar panel system.  
In circumstances  like this I would  expect a business, in this case  Shawbrook,  to refund the 
proportion of interest that a consumer, in this case Mr and Mrs D, were charged that directly 
relates to the refinancing of their original loan. My understanding is that Mr and Mrs D used 
the full amount of the new loan to refinance  the Shawbrook loan. This means  Shawbrook  
should refund them  the total amount of interest,  around £630, they were charged on their 
new loan for the reason I have explained above.
Summary
In summary  Im satisfied  that the offer to make the solar panel system is fair and reasonable. 
In addition to this Im satisfied that Shawbrook should refund Mr and Mrs D the interest  they 
were charged on their new loan.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient  information available at the time that Mr and Mrs D 
first contacted Shawbrook  that means  their claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
didnt happen  undoubtedly caused  them  trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an 
award of £100  to cover this.
Ref: DRN50777214My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  should be upheld.  In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
(a)allow Mr and Mrs D to keep the solar panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs D from the panels over the 
10 year term of the loan and rework  it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, 
it should use Mr and Mrs Ds electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of the settlement,
(d)refund  Mr and Mrs D the proportion of interest  they were charged  on their new loan 
that relates to the amount they used  to settle  their Shawbrook loan; and,
(e)pay Mr and Mrs D £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a certificate  showing this, if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN5077721