K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that changes Provident  Personal Credit Limited (Provident)  made to the 
way it conducted  its business resulted in arrears  accruing on her loan accounts with Provident.
background
Mrs W took out two loans with Provident,  the first in September 2016 and the second in May 
2017. Initially Providents business  system provided  for Mrs W to make regular payments to 
self-employed agents of Provident,  who would  visit her at home. Mrs W made payments, 
and kept her accounts up to date, until the end of June 2017.
At this time Provident altered its business  system. It dispensed with its self-employed agents 
and instead arranged for payments to be made  through an employed  customer experience 
manager. Mrs W says following this change,  she had no contact with any of Providents 
representatives, and when she tried to contact  Provident by phone  no one answered.
The result was that she stopped making repayments on her loan accounts. In August  2017 
she complained  about the situation  to Provident. She was concerned that arrears  were 
accumulating, and this would  affect  her credit  file.
In November 2017, Provident wrote  to Mrs W accepting her complaint.  It acknowledged that 
the changes it had made to its business  system had caused a disruption in its service, and 
that it would  be unfair  for this to affect  Mrs Ws future creditworthiness. It said:
it had taken  steps to ensure any missed  payments caused  by this disruption werent 
reflected on her credit file; and
it would make  allowances for the acknowledged  disruption in service to make sure she 
wasnt penalised  in considering her for future loans.
Provident said it would arrange for Mrs W to be visited  by her customer  experience 
manager, and gave her the managers direct telephone number. By way of further apology  it 
paid her compensation of £30.
Mrs W didnt accept that this resolved her complaint and complained  to us. She was worried  
that her accounts still showed the missed  payments as arrears. She wanted her accounts to 
be adjusted so that she wasnt in arrears, as had been the case  before Provident altered its 
business system.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Provident 
had acknowledged  that the changes it made  had impacted on Mrs Ws repayments, and had 
taken steps to rectify this. It had confirmed that the missed payments wouldnt affect her 
credit file and had paid her compensation of £30, which  the adjudicator thought  was fair.
Mrs W said she had tried unsuccessfully to contact  Provident to make payments, but was 
unable to get through. However  customers had a responsibility to make agreed  payments. 
So he thought it would  have been  reasonable for Mrs W to contact Provident  to make 
payment over the phone,  or to set up a different payment method.
As Mrs W was aware that payments were  due, the adjudicator couldnt recommend that the 
account be treated  as not in arrear.  He said Mrs W should contact Provident to agree the 
repayment of the arrears  by an affordable repayment plan.
Ref: DRN59031992Mrs W responded to say, in summary,  that:
Providents changes to its business  system,  by no longer collecting payments from 
customers at home, was a failure  of its basic responsibilities;
some of its representatives who did call didnt have Provident identification, so she 
wasnt willing to hand over cash to them;
it was simplistic to say that she should have made more effort  to make her payments. 
This ignored  the turmoil  Provident was in at the time;
if Provident  accepted  that it was at fault for the disruption to its service, then why 
couldnt it confirm  her accounts  as no longer being in arrears. She was concerned that 
at some  time in the future the arrears might be reported as arrears  on her credit  file and 
so affect her credit  rating in future.
Mrs W wanted confirmation that her present arrears  wouldnt be shown as such on her credit  
file at any time while her agreements continued.  She asked what recourse  she would have if 
Provident later did show  the arrears  on her credit file.
The adjudicator still thought the steps  Provident  had taken were  reasonable. Mrs W had tried 
to contact Provident without success. But she knew the payments  were due. The adjudicator 
thought it would have made sense, as Mrs W knew she would be going into arrears, for her 
to keep hold of the expected repayments so that she could make a bulk repayment when 
she was able to speak to Provident,  or a representative could come and collect  a payment 
from her house.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that given Providents  original  business  system, the changes  it made were 
disrupting to Mrs Ws repayments. She found it worrying that she couldnt make payments 
on time and arrears were  mounting up.
Until the end of June 2017  Mrs W seems to have made her payments regularly. Usually  
these were paid weekly,  but sometimes she paid up to four weeks  in advance.  However 
payments stopped completely at the beginning of July 2017.
Mrs W clearly knew that arrears were mounting  up. Like the adjudicator,  I think she could 
have done more to find an alternative way of paying, or could have kept money on one side 
until she could make a bulk payment. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say 
that the payments she didnt make shouldnt  be treated as arrears.
I think what Provident offered in response to Mrs Ws complaint was reasonable at the time 
in November 2017. Since then I understand Mrs W still hasnt resumed payments, and 
hasnt made  any arrangement with Provident  to start paying off her arrears. Provident says 
that while information is included at present on Mrs Ws credit file showing her non payment, 
this would be removed  once her accounts have been brought up to date.
In the circumstances, I cant reasonably direct Provident not to treat the payments Mrs W has 
missed as arrears. I would simply urge Mrs W now to make contact with Provident,  and to come 
to an affordable arrangement in respect of resuming payments and paying  off her arrears.
Ref: DRN59031993my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Provident 
Personal Credit Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5903199