K820x#14complaint
Ms A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaints about a PPI policy taken out on a credit card account sometime  between  
August 1995 and January  2000.  
Ms A says she took out the PPI when she applied for her card during a meeting with the 
bank. She may well be right about that. As theres  only limited information  available now,  
Lloyds cant say how or when PPI was sold to Ms A.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms A disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  
Ms A said, in summary, through her representative,  given  the nature of her work for a public 
sector employer, she didnt need PPI. She said she also had savings.  She also said she was 
told she had to have  PPI to get the card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. To decide what most likely 
happened at the time,  I must consider  the wider circumstances, I cant  just rely on 
Ms As memory, particularly given how long ago this took place. I also cant know what was 
discussed with Ms A, if anything,  when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. It says it was using paperwork 
like this at the time the policy was sold to Ms A. On this form, the consumer had to select  a 
box if they wanted PPI.  Based on what weve learnt from dealing  with PPI cases  against 
Lloyds around  this time, I think its likely  that however the sale took place, Ms A wouldve 
had to say if she wanted  PP before  it was added.  I think it unlikely, based on what weve 
seen, that PPI  wouldve been  automatically  added onto a credit card account. So, based on 
the limited information  now available, I think it more  likely that PPI was added because  Ms A 
said she wanted it, knowing  she didnt  have to take it.
Ive treated this as an advised sale. This means  Lloyds not only had to give Ms A important 
policy information in a clear, fair and not misleading way. Importantly, it also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for her needs. 
Ive looked carefully  at whether I think the policy was suitable for Ms A. I think it was. I say 
this because looking at the likely policy terms over this period:
she was eligible to take out the policy;
Ref: DRN58104692I cant see that she was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions on the 
cover. So, I dont think having more,  or better,  information about  these things 
wouldve led her not to take out the cover.  I think  she couldve benefitted from 
everything the policy offered.
The policy appeared affordable and Ms A couldve  cancelled it at any time.
Ive taken into account her benefits  through work and her savings. But, I cant see 
that her other resources  made the policy clearly unsuitable for her. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of her work  benefits. She said she wouldve got six months  
at full pay and six months  at half pay. But, I think the policy couldve still offered 
useful protection.  It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful  claim.  I 
cant see that her level of savings (around three  months worth of pay) offered her 
enough of a safety net to remove the need for PPI. The policy  wouldve  also paid out 
in the event Ms A lost her job unexpectedly  and was out of work.
So, I cant see that the policy was unsuitable  for her, in her circumstances. 
Based on what weve  learnt  about  these sales, some of the information  Lloyds gave  Ms A 
about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. For example, I dont know  if 
Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might  pay out if Ms A made 
a claim.  But, as Ive said, it seems  to have been affordable for her. And Ms A couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time if her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to 
pay for it. It also seems likely that she opted to take out the cover.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Ms A 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  Ms A hasnt  lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds may have  done  wrong.  
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5810469