K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in 2000  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy provided  cover for Mr N only,  for accident,  
sickness and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered  to repay 
£510 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage  balance in the event of a successful  claim.  
At the time,  it cost £21.01 a month, after an initial six months  free period. 
At the time,  Mr N was employed  as a lorry driver. He has told us he was entitled to at least  
six months sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr N has said he was in good health at the time of 
the sale. 
Mr and Mrs N have also said that they held £10,000 in savings  at the time of the sale. 
YBS has sent us information to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ns representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs N about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs N and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN52590612The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
This sale took place  in January 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN52590613I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs N sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs N, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs N 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Ref: DRN52590614did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
I can see that there was a separate section on the mortgage application form that has been 
ticked to show the couple were  interested in taking out PPI. Mr N has then completed a 
separate application form for the policy in which he chose the level of benefit and cover 
required.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs N knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs N disagree. Looking  at what  
happened when  YBS sold Mr and Mrs N the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I 
havent seen any evidence that YBS made a personal recommendation to the couple based 
on their needs.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs N. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr N 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ns. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN52590615-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs N suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs N. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs N would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs N they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs N had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr N being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs N chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs N thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs N have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear YBS told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, Mr and Mrs N were told the cost before the 
policy started (because it was on their mortgage offer) and they paid for the policy  for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with YBS at the time,  or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs N would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN52590616In addition, Im not persuaded  YBS made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs N would get back in 
return in the event Mr N made a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ns 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr N knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr N be unable  to 
do his own job and be prevented  from doing any work.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs N pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr N was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr N 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr N didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr N would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr N needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what Mr and Mrs N 
would have expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely they would have thought Mr N 
would have been able to make a successful claim if he was still working.  
YBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs N that any claim Mr N made would  be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr N would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs N would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr N be unable  to work in the circumstances 
Ref: DRN52590617covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Ns sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr N was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ns circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs N found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN52590618Im also aware that Mr and Mrs N think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2000  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs N and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5259061