K820x#14complaint
Mrs D, who is represented by a Claims Management Company  (CMC) complains about the 
advice she received from Santander  UK plc to invest in two Guaranteed Capital Plus (GCP)  
plans. 
On Mrs Ds behalf, the CMC says that both the investments were unsuitable for her because  
too much  (71.5%)  of her available money  was invested in structured  investment  products for 
someone who had never  held any risk-based investments. The CMC considers that this was 
an example of over committing funds  into structured products, which led to the issuing of 
best practice guidelines  in October  2010.
background
In early 2009, Mrs D met a Santander adviser  to discuss investing  some of her available  
money. Following this meeting, she invested £40,000 into a GCP  (Issue  6) with an 
investment term of three and a half years. The GCP promised to return the investment plus 
1% if the FTSE 100 was lower at maturity than investment, but if the FTSE 100 was higher 
at maturity than investment then Mrs D would get 12%. Because  the index was higher, Mrs 
D received £44,865  on maturity.   
In early 2010, Mrs D, accompanied by her daughter,  met a Santander adviser to discuss  
investing some more of her available money. Following two separate  meetings,  she invested 
£10,422 into a GCP  (Issue 17) with an investment term of three years nine months. The 
GCP promised to return the investment  plus 0.25% if the FTSE was lower  at maturity  than 
investment, but if the FTSE was higher at maturity  than investment then Mrs D would get 
17%. Because the index  was higher, Mrs D received £12,198 on maturity.
In September  2018, on Mrs Ds behalf,  the CMC put in a complaint to Santander saying the 
GCP investments were unsuitable  for her and were  not in keeping  with the best practice 
guidelines of October  2010. Santanders final position, in summary, was that the advice it 
had given to Mrs D was suitable and the investments were made prior to the FCAs guidance 
issued following the thematic review  into Structured  Investment  products.  
Our adjudicator took the view that the 2009 investment was suitable because Mrs D had 
money available to invest and she was seeking a higher return.  He thought  the fact find and 
suitability letter were  thorough, that they detailed the conversations which  had taken place, 
and that the £40,000  invested was not excessive. However, he considered  that the second 
investment of £10,422 in 2010 was not suitable given the amount already invested, because  
this resulted in a large proportion of Mrs Ds money being tied up with limited access. 
In order to assess whether Mrs D had made a financial  loss on the second investment the 
adjudicator compared the return from the 2010 investment with the other options available  at 
the time.  But because  the return Mrs D received  on the second investment was more than 
she would  have received from a more  suitable  alternative, he concluded there had been no 
financial loss and that Santander did not need  to do anything  else.
The CMC disagreed and asked  for asked for Mrs Ds complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN53890612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that both investments were taken  out before the requirements of the FCAs 
thematic review into Structured Investment products  were in place.  
Therefore, to determine this complaint I need  to decide two things:
-were the two GCP  investments suitable for Mrs D?, and
-if either investment  was unsuitable, did she suffer any financial disadvantage?
The initial recommendation in 2009  for an investment  of £42,283 represented  nearly 60% of 
Mrs Ds available cash, at a time when she had a total income of £12,040. The income  
comprised of some part-time work, her state pension,  and an occupational pension.  
Mrs D was not an experienced investor, and she had only ever held cash investments  before 
the meeting. She was due to fully retire at age 65, reducing her income further which  would 
have been before the maturity date of the GCP. 
In light of this, I find it difficult to see why Mrs D would have wanted  to tie up her money for a 
term that would take her into full retirement,  and potentially  return to her an amount worth  
less in real terms than she had started out with. I note that Mrs D rejected the original 
recommendation, deciding to invest a slightly lower figure of £40,000  (56%  of her available 
cash)  but, even so, given her circumstances I do not consider that this investment was 
suitable for her. 
At the time of the second investment, and although Mrs Ds overall capital  had by then 
increased, the recommended additional  investment of £10,422 still resulted in 56% of her 
available capital being invested in structured products. Mrs Ds income was unchanged 
since the first meeting  and it is clear from the completed fact find that her non-pensionable 
part-time income of £7,000 formed the largest part (58%) of the money to cover her living  
expenses. 
Therefore, I dont consider that Mrs D was really  in a position to do anything other than 
obtain the maximum guaranteed return on her money as she approached retirement, when it 
was likely that her income would  reduce  considerably. I can also see from the 
documentation provided that Mrs D made her decision to invest in 2010  over two separate  
meetings and was accompanied  by her daughter.
Taking this all into account, I consider that the second investment was also unsuitable for 
Mrs D.
Having decided that the two investments were not suitable for Mrs D, I need  to establish if 
she suffered any financial  disadvantage as a result. In order to do this I need to compare the 
return Mrs D received  from both investments with alternatives available at the time.
The 2009  investment of £40,000 into the GCP (Issue 6) was held to maturity and returned 
12% at the end of the three and a half year term, which equates to 3.4% per year. 
Ref: DRN53890613In my view, the fairest alternative to compare the GCP with would be a three year fixed  rate 
bond - because Mrs D did not require access and they provide a guaranteed return. At the 
time of the investment  the best three year bond rate the adviser could offer from Santander  
was paying 3.25%. The adviser also recommended that Mrs D transfer her existing  Cash  
ISA (£10,219) into a Super ISA Plan and a further  £40,000 into a Super Saver  account which  
offered a fixed interest rate of 5% for one year. Mrs D agreed to transfer  the ISA but decided  
to invest only £10,000 into the Super Saver. Both accounts offered enhanced rates which  
were conditional  on the investment into the GCP.
The 2010  investment into the GCP  (Issue 17) was also held to maturity  and returned 17% 
over its term of three years and nine months equating to 4.53% per year.  At this time 
Santander did not offer a fixed rate bond  longer than two years and the highest rate on offer 
was 3.75%. The adviser also recommended  that Mrs D transfer her existing Cash  ISA 
(£10,422) into the Super Direct Cash  ISA which paid an enhanced variable rate conditional 
on investing in the GCP.  
On the basis above  it is clear that the returns made  on the two GCP investments, together 
with the enhanced rates on the other  products gained, were  greater  than the return  that 
could be achieved through  a more suitable  alternative. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint to the extent that 
the investments  into the GCP were unsuitable.  However, because Mrs D was not financially 
disadvantaged as a result, I do not consider  it would  be appropriate  for me to require 
Santander to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Neil Perry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5389061