K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society handled his claim that someone 
had used his debit card without  his authority.  
Background
Mr R has explained that he was at a barbecue with family  and friends when, he thinks, 
someone used his debit card to book two return flights  one in his name  without his 
knowledge or permission. He contacted Nationwide almost immediately and was led to 
believe he would get his money  back within a very short  space of time. But Nationwide  later 
said it would  need  to carry out a full investigation,  which would take much  longer, and, Mr R 
says, made  him feel like a criminal. He was going  away shortly afterwards, and says that 
Nationwides treatment  of him, and the worry that had caused, ruined his holiday. 
Nationwide declined to issue  a refund. It noted  that one of the flights was in Mr Rs name, 
and that hed suggested someone else had booked the flights for a joke;  he should take 
matters up with them, rather  than pursuing  a fraud claim  against  Nationwide.  
Mr R also contacted the airline involved.  It said that the booking  couldnt be cancelled, but it 
could be amended, for a fee. In total,  it seems  that Mr R contacted the airline on three  
occasions, twice  before and once after the travel  dates. Even after the original dates had 
passed, it seems it may have been possible to reinstate  the flights. 
When Mr R initially  contacted Nationwide,  he was told he would receive  a refund almost 
immediately. But it then identified that one of the bookings was in Mr Rs name and that hed 
made a similar  claim only a few months earlier. Nationwide then said it would need to 
investigate further  and that it would  decline a refund.
Mr R was unhappy that Nationwide wouldnt refund the payment and with the way hed been 
treated. He referred  the matter to this service and one of our investigators looked at it. She 
thought it was likely that Mr R had booked the flights himself. And, having listened  to Mr Rs 
initial call with Nationwide, she didnt think Mr R had been promised a refund   only a 
decision on whether  or not he should  receive one. Whilst later calls didnt always  go well, the 
investigator didnt  consider that any compensation was merited. 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  
them. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to broadly  the same  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
Ill turn first of all to the claim that the payment to the airline  was unauthorised. Its possible 
that Mr R did  as the investigator concluded   make the booking himself  or allowed 
someone else to do so. And its possible too that he simply  had a change of mind after the 
event  which would be consistent with his subsequent enquiries  with the airline  about  
changing the booking. 
I cant however discount the possibility that someone else made the booking  using Mr Rs 
card without his knowledge  or authority. Nevertheless, I dont believe it would be fair in all 
Ref: DRN54444982the circumstances to require Nationwide to provide  a refund. First, one of the tickets was 
booked in Mr Rs name;  to that extent, hes had some benefit. Second, he contacted the 
airline, on the face of it to see if he could use the booking or change  it so someone else 
could. But more importantly, it seems to me fair that Mr R should really  take this up with 
whoever booked the tickets  and, indeed, he may have done so. This is not a case  where 
an unknown individual has used his card, leaving  him with no recourse against them. 
I turn now to the way Nationwide handled matters  when Mr R got in touch. Im afraid I dont 
agree that Nationwide misled Mr R about  getting  a refund. And I can see why Nationwide  
wanted to look into things in more detail,  given Mr R had made  a similar  claim earlier the 
same year. In saying  that, I accept  what he says about being  open and honest about what 
had happened, but I agree  that Nationwide was entitled to be cautious and to have concerns 
about the way Mr Rs account  was being operated.
I agree  with the investigator that compensation isnt warranted in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5444498