K820x#14Complaint
Mr D, who is represented by his wife, complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected their 
claim under Section  75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of a faulty kitchen.
Background
In late 2018 Mr D and his wife ordered  new kitchen cabinets and white goods from a 
company I will call W. These  cost £5,100  and this was funded by a deposit  of £510 and the 
balance by a fixed loan agreement. The goods were delivered  in early January, but the 
cabinets werent as ordered and Mr D had to wait 10 days  before they were replaced with 
the right ones. 
A number  of items were either missing or damaged  and these were supplied in later 
deliveries. Mr D, who is suitably experienced in such matters, fitted the kitchen  himself.  Mrs 
D says her husband who is self employed  lost earnings due to the delays and failures of W. 
They also complained that the edging of the cabinets was white  and not oak to match the 
doors. W sent oak coloured edging  tape to mask the white  sections.
They complained to W and it offed £375 in compensation which  it later increased  to £500. It 
broke this down into compensation for loss of earnings and distress  and inconvenience. Mr 
D complained to Hitachi saying that W had breached its contract by delivered  the wrong 
units and took 10 days to replace them. He also said that he had been led to believe the 
doors would be solid oak, but they were  more like chipboard.
Hitachi said that the contract showed  that natural  oak had been ordered and W had replaced 
the units with oak which was a slightly different colour. It also referred to the descriptions of 
the doors on Ws website which said: This timeless shaker design is crafted with timber 
frames and veneer  centre panels It said this made it clear the doors  werent solid oak. It 
also noted the photos of the store display sent in by Mrs D which showed the insides were 
white and didnt match the external colour.  
It quoted Ws terms and conditions which said delivery times were  estimates which  it would 
seek to meet, but it advised not to book fitters etc. until the order  has been delivered.  Mr D 
was unhappy  with this response and so brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. Mrs D also 
supplied a screenshot of Ws website from the time they ordered the kitchen which  described 
the units as 'solid  oak-framed shaker-style kitchen'.
Our investigator didnt  consider the marketing material to be misleading  as it referred to solid 
framed doors and made no reference  to the centre  panels being solid. He noted Mrs Ds 
comment that the designer had told them the doors were solid, but there was no 
documentary evidence  to support that. However,  he accepted that he thought there  had 
been a breach of contract in that the wrong  units had been delivered. He noted this had 
been rectified, but Mrs D had set out the consequential losses  her husband had suffered. He 
had lost income and they had to eat out for longer than would have been  necessary. He 
concluded that the £500 offered by W to be sufficient compensation.
Mrs D didnt agree and said that the edging should have been coloured  and not white as 
supplied and this had been misrepresentation. She also said the investigator  hadnt referred  
to the pantry unit which also had white  edging  whereas the catalogue showed it to be oak 
Ref: DRN58432332coloured. She reasserted the designer had said the cupboard doors, plinths,  end panels  etc. 
were solid oak.
She went on to say that the description in Ws website said solid oak framed  Shaker. She 
said a framed shaker  was a design which refers to a raised  frame  around the door and it 
doesnt imply the centre panel was of a different material. She said it was referred to by 
name as Tiverton Oak which suggested  it was made  of oak not veneer. She also said the 
photos from the display showed the edging was oak coloured bonding.
Finally, she pointed out that £400 of the compensation paid by W was to cover loss of 
earnings and only £100 for distress and inconvenience. Our investigator said there  were  two 
issues in relation to Section 75, one was there a false statement of fact and secondly did this 
induce the customer to buy the goods.  He said he remained of the opinion that there hadnt 
been a false statement by W and he wasnt persuaded that Mr D had been  wrongfully  
induced to buy the kitchen. As for the edging he thought that if Mr and Mrs D had been  
unhappy they would have  rejected it. He also thought this applied  to the pantry  cupboard.
He also addressed the compensation offered.  He said this service didnt consider 
compensation for loss of earnings. He was satisfied that £500  was appropriate. He 
confirmed that he believed Hitachi had acted fairly and reasonably in investigating the 
complaint. Mrs D asked that it be referred  to an ombudsman
.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Hitachi has said it does not agree  a claim should be made under section 75, as there is not 
enough evidence  to show W was in breach of contract or misrepresented  the units.
There is a clear debtor-creditor-supplier link and so I must consider if there has been  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.  W sells the shaker range  in several colours,  one of 
which is Tiverton Oak and another  is Tiverton  Natural Oak. The invoice refers to Tiverton N 
Oak and it is not clear  what colour  they received initially, but Mrs D says it wasnt the 
Tiverton Oak which  they had ordered.  It is not clear how the error occurred, but the contract 
refers to Tiverton Natural Oak and what they wanted  appears to have been Tiverton Oak. It 
is regrettable that this wasnt spotted  by either  party when the contract  was signed.
I appreciate Mrs D has said the designer showed  them Tiverton Oak and this is what they 
presumed they had ordered. Whatever the cause a mistake was made  and W agreed to 
Ref: DRN58432333replace the units. This is not a clear  breach  of contract as the goods  as per the written 
contract were delivered albeit Mrs D believes they were misled by the designer.
However, the claim made by Mr D is, in essence,  for distress and inconvenience along  with 
consequential losses due to a loss of earnings  and costs of eating out. But I dont  believe 
these arose  from any breach of contract. The contract states  quite clearly  that delivery dates 
are estimates and cannot be guaranteed. Mr D decided to take out the old kitchen before the 
new one was delivered and set aside  time to install it on the presumption  that what had been 
ordered would be delivered on time. Those  costs  arose out of that decision and not out of 
any possible  breach  of contract. 
On the matter of misrepresentation I accept  the description of the units  is not crystal clear  
and has since been changed by W. However,  Mr and Mrs D inspected the units  at the 
showroom and I presume  these included the veneer  panels. They didnt rely solely  on the 
description on the website. As such I am not persuaded they were induced to buy the 
kitchen by any misrepresentation. Nor am I satisfied that the edging  was presented in such  a 
way to have misled them into thinking  what they ordered was coloured.
As for the matter of compensation while W may have broken it down into its constituent parts 
this service looks at such sums  in the round. I feel W did let them down to a degree and it 
took a number of deliveries for the goods  to arrive and as such I consider £500 to be more 
than fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843233