K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold in or around  
August 1997.  Although the MPPI  may have been sold by another party, in this complaint 
Lloyds has accepted responsibility  for the sale. So for consistency  Ill refer to Lloyds  in my 
decision.
background
The MPPI was a standalone policy, sold separately  to her mortgage,  although  it provided  
Ms P with cover to protect her mortgage  payments. Ms P says she doesnt  remember  being 
sold MPPI and didnt need  it. 
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about  the policy being mis-sold shouldnt  be 
upheld. Ms P still thinks the cover was mis-sold in the first place and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Given that the MPPI was apparently sold around 25 years ago, its unfortunate but not 
surprising that theres  only limited  paperwork  available . So the paperwork we have left 
about the sale is most likely to be only a small part of what  was used. Essentially, I think 
quite a lot of information is missing  because of the passage  of time. But what we do have 
here in my view is enough evidence  and information  to suggest that its likely that Ms P, at 
one point anyway,  agreed to the cover and she would  have been aware  that such a policy 
had been set up on her mortgage account.  
For example, theres no doubt that MPPI was sold to Ms P. Ive seen a copies of annual 
review documents  from 2014, 2018  and 2019.  These were all sent to Ms P by the insurer 
that set up the policy for Lloyds. These reviews show the type of cover, the level of cover  
and the monthly  cost.  And Ive noted that the MPPI is described in each of them as being  
optional with a notice about  cancellation saying that Ms P could cancel her cover at any 
time. So Ms P ought to have been  alerted to the fact that the MPPI  wasnt  something she 
had to have. 
I also think Ms P would have needed  to set up a separate direct debit (or similar)  to have the 
£13.39 monthly  premium  transferred from her bank account. I think these things  would have 
made Ms P aware of the existence of the policy, although I of course  accept she may have 
forgotten about  this after some 23 years have  elapsed.
From what  I know about sales of standalone MPPI  like this it looks  as if it was put to Ms P as 
a recommendation.  Its not disputed by Lloyds  that the MPPI was probably recommended  as 
part of an advised sale. This means it had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable for 
Ms Ps  particular circumstances. I think it was.
Ref: DRN51836572My experience is that consumers would need to fill out a separate  MPPI application form in 
addition to their mortgage  application for a policy to be created. Unfortunately,  we havent 
been able to trace a copy. 
This all adds weight  to what Ive said above and, taken as a whole, I think  makes it more  
likely that Ms P consented  to the MPPI  back in 1997 and decided to go ahead  with the 
cover. 
Ive also looked  to see if the MPPI was suitable  for Ms P. Ms P was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy. She was 
employed and told us she had some  sickness  protection  with her job which  would have 
provided full pay for around 6 months  followed by 6 months at half pay. But this doesnt 
make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against  Ms Ps home  and was a 
long-term and significant  financial commitment. The consequences of not being  able to 
make the repayments  could have been  serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI 
would have paid the mortgage  for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to the 
other means  she already had in place.
I therefore dont  think recommending  MPPI to Ms P was unreasonable  in this case.
Lloyds also had to provide  information that was clear, fair and not misleading.  Given  the lack 
of some of the point  of sale documents, I obviously cant  confirm what was said at the 
meeting(s) and its possible Lloyds could have done  a better job in explaining  things. But 
from what Ive seen  before, I think the disclosure of information would  have probably  been 
quite good. It would also have been  easy for Ms P to see the cost of the monthly MPPI 
premiums. So, I think  Ms P probably  had enough  information on which to make an informed 
choice about what she wanted to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms P  especially given that her complaint has been with us for some 
time whilst Lloyds looked into it - but there  simply isnt enough  for me to say the MPPI policy 
was mis-sold to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183657