K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a used  car by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS).
background 
In July 2018 Mr S acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase  agreement with 
BMWFS. Mr S says he told the dealership  that he was a private hire car driver and that he 
required a car that could  be driven for executive trips. Mr S says the dealership  confirmed 
that a car he was interested in would be suitable.
Mr S agreed  to take the car and signed  the hire purchase agreement.  He arranged to have 
the windows tinted and says the dealership agreed  for him to make this alteration. 
However within a couple  of days Mr S discovered that the car wasnt  suitable for him to 
use a private hire vehicle  as it didnt meet the ultra low emissions set for taxis driven in the 
city in which  Mr S worked. This meant Mr S wouldnt be allowed  a licence to drive the car 
as a private hire vehicle.
Mr S says that as the contract  was still within the first 14 days  period  he decided to return 
the car to the dealership  and left it there.  He asked  for the agreement  to be settled and 
for his deposit  to be returned as the car didnt fit his needs.  The dealership declined  and 
said Mr S could only return  the car if it was faulty.
Mr S then phoned  BMWFS, he explained  that hed returned the car and the agent 
confirmed that Mr S was entitled to do so without a reason  in the first 14 days of the 
agreement. The agent advised  that Mr S should  take the log book  to the dealership and 
request the return of his deposit.  They said if the dealership refused to cancel the 
agreement he should call back and BMWFS  would open a complaint.
The dealership declined to return Mr Ss deposit  and so he complained to BMWFS. He 
also told BMWFS  that the dealership had re-advertised the car for sale and provided  
photos of this. However, BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
BMWFS said that when Mr S had dropped the car off at the dealership it hadnt agreed to 
its rejection. But the dealership had initially offered as a gesture of goodwill to buy the car 
back and to repay 50% of the deposit paid by Mr S. This offer though was then later revised  
and the dealership offered  to repay 33% of his deposit. This was due to the tinted glass 
being added and that there was an additional  owner now recorded in the log book. 
BMWFS said that it needed to receive  written  proof  that Mr S had told the dealership the 
proposed purpose  he had for the vehicle.  It also said that the financial agreement 
entered into by Mr S didnt allow him to use the vehicle for private hire in any event.
As Mr S hasnt made any payments under the agreement BMWFS has now placed a 
default notice  on Mr Ss account  and this has been recorded on his credit file.
Mr S disagreed with BMWFSs decision and complained to this service. Our adjudicator
didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint  should be upheld. She said listening to the call 
between
Mr S and BMWFS when  hed called to say hed returned the car she didnt think BMWFS had 
given Mr S incorrect information. Our adjudicator  said Mr S had misunderstood his rights to 
Ref: DRN52630702cancel the agreement within the first 14 days. The agreement allowed for it to be cancelled 
within that time but this didnt permit the car to be returned. What  it meant  was that Mr S 
would still be liable  for the outstanding balance and would need to finance  the car by another 
method.
Our adjudicator  said Mr S was entitled  to reject the car within  the first 30 days  if it was 
found to be faulty.  She said she didnt think the car could  be said not to be of satisfactory 
condition because it wasnt suitable  to be used as a private hire vehicle due to its 
emissions.
Our adjudicator said she didnt agree that the car had been mis-sold to Mr S. She said 
although she thought it was likely hed told the dealership that he needed the car to be 
used for private hire she didnt think it was reasonable to expect it to know  about  the rules  
regarding ultra low emissions.  She also said it wasnt reasonable to expect the dealership  
to know about  this cars particular emissions.
Our adjudicator said that Mr S had signed  showing he was happy to be bound  by the 
terms and conditions of the agreement which included  the car couldnt  be used for private  
hire.
Our adjudicator noted that BMWFS had advised Mr S that if he failed to collect the car within 
20 days of its final response letter then a default notice would be issued for the breach of his 
contract. BMWFS had also told Mr S if he didnt collect the car it would repossess it. This is 
what had subsequently happened as Mr S had chosen not to take action. Our adjudicator  
said she thought  BMWFS  had acted  fairly  in recording this on Mr Ss credit file as it had 
acted in accordance  with the agreements terms and conditions.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators views. He said hed done  what hed been advised  
to do by BMWFS  when hed first called to make  his complaint. The complaint was passed 
to me and I issued a provisional decision along  the following lines.
Mr S said that not only was the car mis-sold  to him but that the agreement was also not 
suitable as hed wanted to use the car for private  hire.
I didnt know what was said between Mr S and the dealership and where information was 
missing or contradictory I must decide  what I thought was the most likely  thing  to have 
happened. I thought Mr S had been consistent that he told the dealership he was a private 
hire vehicle driver by occupation and that he needed an executive  car to undertake  this 
role. Id seen this has been  his job for some years.
Id also seen that the car was registered  to a company rather  than to Mr S as a private  
individual. So I thought it was more  likely  than not that the dealership  was aware  what  
Mr S wanted  the car for. And when a car was purchased  via a hire purchase agreement 
then the finance provider  may be responsible for the actions of the dealership in 
arranging that agreement.
Looking at the agreement  that Mr S signed  Id seen that at term 4(j) under the heading 
Your Care  of the Vehicle  it says the vehicle cannot  be used for motor  sports;  or for hire or 
other financial reward. Although I thought it was reasonable to expect someone to read the 
terms and conditions of agreement before signing I didnt think  this particular term stood out 
as it appeared  near the end of list of things the person taking the car needs  to do. This list 
included maintaining and repairing the car and arranging MOTs. I also didnt think  the 
Ref: DRN52630703heading wouldve  alerted Mr S that this term contained something that was very pertinent  to 
his situation.
I thought it would be reasonable to have expected the dealership  to point  this restriction  out 
to Mr S. By failing to do so the dealership had put Mr S into the position of potentially  
breaching the agreement. So I thought the loan was mis-sold to Mr S as had he been aware 
of this term he wouldnt have agreed to enter into it.
Id seen that the emission rules that caught the car and made  it unsuitable for use as a 
private hire vehicle were  new and so I didnt think it was fair to expect  a dealership  to be 
aware of which cars were and werent  suitable to be used in a particular city as taxis.  I 
thought that as this was Mr Ss profession it would have been reasonable to expect him to 
have conducted  the necessary research. I had seen any evidence that the dealership  
misled Mr S about the cars emissions.
Mr S returned the car to the dealership and left it there. I agreed  with our adjudicator that Mr 
S has misunderstood his rights under  the agreement. Under  the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
a car can be rejected within  the first 30 days if its found to be faulty but that wasnt  the case 
here.
There was a right to withdraw from the agreement within the first 14 days. However  this 
right was only to withdraw  from the financial agreement itself but not to return the car. So if 
a consumer withdraws in this period  they are still required to clear the outstanding balance  
on the agreement.
Id listened to the call between Mr S and BMWFSs  agent. I thought the agent provided Mr S 
with incorrect information as to his rights about  his right to return  the car. He was clearly  told 
by the person he spoke to that he didnt need a reason to reject  the car and return  it to the 
dealership if it was within the first 14 days. He was also told that the dealership  would 
cancel the agreement and return his deposit. I thought it was reasonable that Mr S relied on 
what hed been  told by BMWFSs agent.
Although BMWFS later said that it wasnt upholding Mr Ss complaint I thought this initial call 
caused Mr S significant confusion about  his rights  under the agreement. So I wasnt 
surprised that while his complaint  has been ongoing that he didnt return  to the dealership 
and collect the car.
Looking at the evidence  I intended to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I was satisfied that the 
dealership mis-sold Mr S the agreement for the car. I thought it was fair and reasonable for 
the agreement  to be cancelled with nothing to pay as Mr S hasnt used the car. Mr Ss 
deposit was also to be repaid in full. And as a consequence I thought  it would be fair for 
BMWFS to remove all information  about this agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
I was aware that the dealership had offered to repay only part of Mr Ss deposit as it said 
hed tinted the windows without permission.  But I didnt have any evidence that this 
affected the value of the car. Mr S also said that the dealership  had agreed  he could alter 
the windows as he had. I thought that in these circumstances it was unfair to deduct 
anything from Mr Ss deposit for this.
I also thought this matter had caused  Mr S to suffer inconvenience and distress. He 
wouldnt have  entered the agreement  if hed been aware that it wasnt suitable  and he 
Ref: DRN52630704relied on the advice he was given by BMWFS that he could return  the car. I thought  £300 
compensation was fair and reasonable in these  circumstances.
BMWFS hasnt  responded to my provisional  decision. Mr S said he agreed  though he 
thought the compensation should  be £3000 as hed had a number of loans declined to 
the information recorded on his credit file by BMWFS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S has agreed with my view about  the agreement being  mis-sold and BMWFS  hasnt 
responded so the only issue Ive been asked  to look at again is the amount of compensation 
that should be awarded. Mr S says he was expecting significantly more.
When deciding the amount of compensation I have to look at the impact on the consumer  
together with the actions and responsibilities of the business. I dont award compensation to 
punish a business for bad service. Here,  the dealership werent clear that the agreement  
wasnt suitable for Mr S and then BMWFSs agent  misled him as to what his rights were 
under that agreement.
Mr S says that because  there was a default registered on his credit file he was prevented  
from obtaining several loans and that his original high credit score has been demolished.  
However, finance companies have their own systems in place in regards to credit scores  and 
they dont rely on the scores that the credit  reporting  companies  provide to consumers. 
There also can be a number of reasons  a loan is declined including multiple applications  or 
due to the amount of credit already  borrowed. I cant reasonably  say the only reason Mr S 
wasnt approved  for further credit was due to the default notice.
BMWFS is under an obligation to record accurate information about a consumers account 
but I can understand why Mr S had chosen  not to pay. To remedy this situation  I think its fair 
for BMWFS to remove all information about  this agreement from his credit  file.
So when considering what would be a fair award  of compensation in this matter  Im satisfied  
that £300 is a reasonable amount and Im not going to increase  that.
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint and Im asking BMWFS to 
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay, remove all information  about this 
agreement from his credit file, reimburse his deposit with interest and pay £300  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.,
Ref: DRN52630705my final decision 
As set out above Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. To resolve this complaint  Im asking BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
 Cancel the agreement with nothing to pay
 Remove all information recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file about this agreement
 Reimburse Mr Ws deposit  of £3000 together  with interest at the yearly  rate of 8%        
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement
 Pay Mr W £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the     
mis- selling of the agreement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5263070