K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about a recommendation he was given by Wallace  White in April 2007 to 
invest in Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund Majestic Village No 3 (Majestic Village) 
within his SIPP. He says he agreed  to this on based  on the understanding that he was 
investing in Stirling  Mortimer Property Fund PCC  Ltd which he says was described to him 
as a European  wide property  fund with a good  spread of properties. He says that he had 
no idea in 2007 that he was investing  in Majestic Village and he only found out in 2014  that 
this was where his money had been  invested. Mr D says he was misled about the fact that 
his money was being invested in a single residential Spanish property resort development.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2019.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In the provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr D did not make any further comments.
Wallace White did not accept the provisional decision. In summary it:
Said it remained of the view that the complaint does not fall within  this services  
jurisdiction for the reasons it had previously set out. It highlighted that I had not 
properly addressed the matter of whether Mr D ought to have reasonably been aware 
that he had cause for complaint more  than three years  before his complaint was 
made.
Drew attention to the complaint Mr D had made  in brief,  that he was not aware  he 
had invested in a single Spanish property development - Majestic Village. It said 
Majestic Village was visible on the application form. It said the evidence  clearly 
indicated he did see this and therefore  the complaint should  be rejected. It said it was 
not credible that Mr D would sign an application  form without looking at the content.
It said there were inconsistencies  in Mr Ds submissions which undermined his 
credibility. It highlighted Mr D saying  that he had been led to believe that he was 
investing in a European wide property  fund and then at another point saying  he was 
led to believe he had invested in prime property in both American and Europe. His 
complaint should therefore be rejected.
The loss Mr D has suffered relates primarily to the failure of his subsequent  adviser  
to give up to date advice about his investments. It says Mr Ds subsequent adviser 
became responsible for his portfolio  from July 2007 and if Majestic Village was not 
appropriate for Mr D then the adviser should have informed him.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 12 June  2019  I discussed that Mr D was misled  about the 
investment and would  not have wished to make  the investment in Majestic  Village  had he 
been aware of its true nature. I also set out in some detail that Mr D would not have wished 
Ref: DRN59047822to take the risks presented  by this high risk, unregulated investment. So the investment was 
an unsuitable recommendation.  I then set out how to calculate fair compensation.   
Wallace White has made  further submissions  as to my jurisdiction in its response  to my 
provisional decision of 12 June 2019.  I would  confirm  that, as well as the merits of the 
complaint itself, I kept the matter of jurisdiction under review and have considered  the further 
submissions that have been made.  I would say that:
I have addressed Wallace Whites submissions  about  jurisdiction and time limits in 
my provisional decision of 21 January 2019  and decision of 23 May 2019.  I also 
considered my jurisdiction  when  I considered  the merits  of the complaint in my 
provisional decision of 12 June 2019.  Wallace White raised the same issue  (set out 
above) as to when  Mr D ought  to have known  he had cause for complaint in 
response to my provisional  decision of 21 January 2019.  In my decision of 23 May 
2019 I acknowledged that it had raised this issue but that I had clearly considered 
when Mr D ought to have known he had cause  for complaint in my provisional 
decision of 21 January 2019.  I also reviewed  this issue in my decision of 23 May 
2019 and set out why I was not persuaded that Mr D ought to have known  earlier 
than 20 January 2012 that he had cause for complaint. I remain  of the view that Mr D 
has complained  in time.  
As I explained in my provisional decision of 12 June 2019 (and my provisional 
decision of 21 January 2019  and decision of 23 May 2019  regarding jurisdiction), Mr 
D did not sign the application  form for Majestic Village as Wallace White says. But 
the application does carry a Wallace White  stamp. I set out that Mr D signed  a 
covering letter which directed investment  into Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund 
PCC Ltd. I think it would  be helpful to quote  from my provisional decision of 12 June 
2019:
Mr D says he did not see this application.  What he says happened  is that the adviser 
prepared the covering  letter for him which he then signed. He then relied  on the 
adviser or Wallace White  to attach the correct  paperwork so that the investment 
could be made within  his SIPP. So, he says, he would have no idea the application 
was for Majestic Village. He has explained  that the way investment decisions were 
made was that the adviser  would  make a suggestion  verbally  and then he would 
leave it to the adviser to draw up the relevant paperwork  as he did with the 
application form and covering letter - for him to sign. He would not be given written 
recommendations or investment  literature  he trusted the adviser.  
As discussed, I have  not seen any written recommendation from the Wallace  White 
adviser to Mr D as to why the investment was recommended or explaining what  the 
nature of the investment  was or how it operated. As I referred to in the decision on 
jurisdiction, this lack of documented advice or action or providing ongoing updates 
about Majestic Village was something that was consistent in the way the adviser  
dealt with Mr D. 
The covering  letter made no mention of an investment  was in Majestic  Village.  It 
said it was a, Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund...  
Clearly of the understanding that he was investing in a diversified  fund and signing 
such a letter,  I do not believe  it unreasonable that Mr D left any other administration 
Ref: DRN59047823of the investment of the money to the adviser (which, as discussed  in my previous 
decisions, was in the nature of the relationship between Mr D and the adviser).   
Furthermore I set out in detail why I did not believe it likely Mr D saw that he was 
investing in Majestic Village as Wallace  White suggests. Overall  I set out in my 
decisions that Mr D did not likely  have  any knowledge that he was investing in 
Majestic Village until this was communicated to him in 2014. I remain of that view and 
would direct the parties to my previous decisions for the reasons why.  Given  the 
course of dealing with the adviser  (also  set out in my decisions) I believe it was 
reasonable for Mr D to believe he was investing  in a diversified property fund. I do 
not believe he was aware of anything before 20 January 2012 that would have 
caused him to think otherwise. It is possible that Mr D was given information before 
20 January 2012  to the effect  that he was investing  in Majestic Village but I have set 
out previously in my decisions that I have not seen persuasive evidence  of that.    
It has been discussed previously in my decisions that Mr D and the adviser shared 
an office and had a close relationship. I would expect that Mr D and the adviser 
would have discussed potential investments verbally  and have considered that the 
adviser could have discussed with Mr D more  about  the nature of the Majestic  Village 
fund than is documented. But I am persuaded given the course of dealing  between 
Mr D and the adviser and the other  evidence  I discussed in my decisions, that Mr Ds 
version of events is the more likely  that he was not told about  the true nature of 
Majestic Village by the adviser.   
I do not believe Mr D has made material inconsistent submissions that would 
undermine his credibility. Mr D has actually  been  quite clear  about what he was told 
(or not told) throughout his complaint. The fact that he has described at different 
points being told that he was investing  in property in Europe or Europe and America 
is not material in the context of this complaint. What  is material is that he was led to 
believe he was investing in a diversified property  fund across a wide geographic area 
when in fact his investment was placed  in a single  property development in one 
country. I think  Mr D has been  entirely  consistent  about that. 
Wallace White has made submissions previously about its liability  given the adviser 
concerned joined  another regulated business shortly after Mr D made the Majestic 
Village investment. And it also raised the issue about Mr D having an entirely  new 
adviser since 2014. I addressed this issue in my provisional decision of 12 June 
2019. I set out in that provisional  decision why Wallace White was liable for Mr Ds 
losses as to the Majestic  Village investment.  I do not believe  the evidence  is that the 
investment could have  been sold (if it is assumed  it should  have been) after the 
adviser joined another business  or Mr D had a new adviser. Therefore Mr Ds losses 
at present flow directly  from the advice in 2007,  given by his adviser whilst 
representing Wallace White. I am not persuaded that Wallace Whites liability for 
those losses should end at some earlier  point  or Mr Ds loss could have been 
mitigated earlier.  
fair compensation
I set out in my provisional decision of 12 June 2019  a fair redress calculation given what I 
believe was most likely Mr Ds objective  of investing  in a collective European property fund.  I 
believed that fair redress would  be to compare the value of the Majestic  Village  investment  
with the returns  he would  have achieved using  a fair comparator for a diversified European 
Ref: DRN59047824property investment.  I remain of the view that this would be fair redress  in the 
circumstances.  
what should  Wallace  White do?
 
To compensate Mr D fairly, I order that Wallace White:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Wallace White should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wallace White should  pay into Mr D's SIPP to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the SIPP if it would conflict  with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Wallace White is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount directly to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wallace White  deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Wallace White 
should give Mr D a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN59047825investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Majestic 
Villagestill existsMSCI Europe 
Real Estate 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Wallace White should take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial 
value acceptable  to Mr Ds SIPP. This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wallace White is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wallace White may require that Mr D provides an 
undertaking to pay Wallace  White any amount he may receive from the investment  in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Wallace White will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any distribution out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that 
point on. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk whilst 
investing in a diversified European  property fund.
Ref: DRN59047826The MSCI Europe Real Estate Index incorporates  the real estate  returns  across 15 
developed market European  countries. I believe its a fair measure for the returns Mr 
D would  have achieved. 
The mix and diversification provided  within  the index is close enough to allow  me to 
use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr D's objectives.   
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I order  Wallace  White to pay Mr D the amount calculated as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
David Bird 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59047827copy provisional decision  
complaint
Mr D complains about a recommendation he was given  by Wallace White in April 2007to invest  in 
Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund Majestic  Village No 3 (Majestic Village)  within his SIPP. He 
says he agreed to this on based on the understanding that he was investing in Stirling Mortimer 
Property Fund PCC Ltd which he says was described to him as a European wide property fund with 
a good spread of properties. He says that he had no idea in 2007  that he was investing in Majestic 
Village and he only found  out in 2014 that this was where his money  had been invested.  Mr D says he 
was misled about the fact that his money was being  invested in a single residential  Spanish property 
resort development.
background
As the parties will be aware I have previously issued a decision which  set out my view as to 
jurisdiction  that is, was Mr Ds complaint one I could  consider.  I decided that it did fall within my 
jurisdiction as, in brief, Wallace  White  had carried out regulated activities for Mr D and Mr Ds 
complaint had been made in time. 
In the jurisdiction decision  I explained that, in April 2007, Mr D was a client of Wallace White.  He had 
been one of their clients since the 1990s. I found that a particular financial adviser at Wallace White 
had been advising  Mr D about investments and that he had advised  Mr D to make the Majestic Village 
investment.  
In much or all of the period as a Wallace  White client, Mr D operated a SIPP. Amongst the SIPP 
assets Mr D invested in over time was commercial property. He invested in more  than one different 
commercial property including a purchase made in 2004. 
Mr D decided, in early  2007,  to sell the commercial property (in his SIPP) that he had bought in 2004.  
He ended up with about £160,000 in the cash account of his SIPP. £50,000  of this SIPP cash  was 
then invested in Majestic  Village.
Mr D signed a typed letter, dated 5 April 2007:
Please find enclosed an application form for the Stirling  Mortimer Global Property Fund PCC 
Ltd into which  I wish to invest £50,000 from my SIPP Current Account  
There is a completed application form for Mr D to invest  in the Stirling  Mortimer Global Property Fund 
PCC Ltd Majestic  Village No 3 Fund. This application form was not signed by Mr D. It is also not 
dated. But it refers to Mr D as the designated investor and that £50,000 was to be invested. The 
cheque for this was to be made payable to SM Global Prop Fd PCC Ltd re Majestic  Village  No 3. At 
the end of the application form the name  and contact details for Wallace White have been stamped. 
Mr Ds individual Wallace White advisers  name was also handwritten. 
On 6 April 2007, Mr Ds SIPP provider wrote a cheque payable to SM Global Prop  Fd PCC Ltd Re 
Majestic Village. This was for £50,000 to be drawn from Mr Ds SIPP account.
Later in 2007, Mr D ceased to be a client of Wallace  White. He decided to become a client of his 
advisers new advisory business.
By 2010, the Majestic  Village  fund was in difficulty and Mr D ceased to be a client of the adviser (who  
originally recommended the investment) in 2014. He engaged a new financial adviser.  This new 
adviser reviewed Mr Ds investments. This new adviser  informed Mr D that he had invested £50,000  
in an unregulated collective  investment scheme (UCIS) called Majestic Village. Furthermore  that Mr D 
Ref: DRN59047828had likely lost his £50,000  investment due to the difficulties encountered by this investment over the 
last few years.
Mr D complained to Wallace White about this. Mr D said he was led to believe by Wallace  White he 
was investing £50,000  in a diversified property fund. But he now knows the money went to a right  to 
purchase scheme for a Spanish property resort. Mr D told Wallace White  he would never have 
agreed to invest in such a high risk scheme. He had a cautious attitude to investment risk. 
Furthermore he was never informed of the problems  Majestic Village encountered  after 2007.
As part of their investigation, Wallace  White could not find any file for their former client Mr D. They  
said the adviser  had taken the relevant  file away (and no copy was left with Wallace White). Wallace  
White also said here they did not know Mr D had invested in Majestic  Village. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was investigated. 
The ombudsman who considered the complaint then issued a jurisdiction decision, finding that the 
complaint was one he could consider. The ombudsman then went on to consider the merits  of the 
complaint and issued his Final Decision on 31 October 2017.
Following a Judicial Review  petition by Wallace White in the Court of Session in Scotland in January  
2018, the ombudsmans  Final Decision  was reduced and Mr Ds complaint was remitted to the 
Ombudsman Service to consider the complaint  afresh.  
I considered the complaint  afresh  and all the submissions that had been made  to decide firstly if it 
was one that would fall within my jurisdiction. I issued  a decision  on 23 May 2019 setting  out that the 
complaint would fall within my jurisdiction.
I have now gone on to consider afresh the merits of Mr Ds complaint.
In doing so, I have considered all the submissions and evidence provided  to date by both parties. I 
have summarised the material issues raised by Wallace  White in response to Mr Ds complaint:
Mr D ought reasonably  to have reviewed  the application he himself referred to in his letter of 5 
April 2007. If he had done so, Mr D would have been aware he was about to invest in 
Majestic Village;
Mr D has had a very successful career as a high risk commercial property investor, buying 
several portfolios of commercial properties over a ten year period for hundreds of millions of 
pounds on a significantly  geared basis.  Mr D was aware of the risk of personal financial ruin;
For a man of considerable wealth  and property  experience the Majestic Village investment 
makes reasonable sense.  Mr D knew about mezzanine  finance and development  projects 
with rights to purchase  from transactions he had been involved with in the past;
Mr D is a very thorough  individual  who always  made sure he knew what he was investing  in;
Mr D actively  managed  many of his own investments. The evidence of this also shows Mr D is 
not the cautious  investor he has now made himself  out to be. For example, it has been shown  
Mr D has invested significantly in Chinese and Indian funds. He has also accrued over 
£100,000 by self-selecting shares  in various  companies;
It is frustrating  there  is a lack of paperwork from the time of the sale such  as a 
recommendations letter.  Mr D has said he never received  such  a letter. But Mr D would have 
known financial advisers were  supposed to produce something written to confirm whatever 
recommendation they were making;
If Majestic Village was unsuitable for Mr D at the time it was recommended or sold to him, 
then presumably  the adviser should have picked this up when he left the employ  of Wallace  
White, taking Mr D with him to a new financial advisory firm.
Ref: DRN59047829my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Majestic Village invested  in properties that were being built in a resort development in Spain. The 
intention was to benefit from the expected rise in values of the properties by completion. Due to its 
gearing, the fund would produce significant positive returns to investors if the value of the underlying  
investments increased when  they were sold.  However,  in the event that the value  of the underlying 
investments fell in value  the losses  to investors would be increased. 
did Wallace White advise Mr D to invest in Majestic Village?
As discussed earlier, I set out in my jurisdiction decision  that I was persuaded  that a financial adviser  
at Wallace  White advised  Mr D to make the Majestic  Village investment  in 2007. 
To recap  the jurisdiction  decision, the application form for Majestic  Village  had a Wallace  White 
stamp. So Wallace White  must  have  seen the application form at some  point. So it was aware  or 
should have been aware of the investment  that was being  made.
After this point  the adviser went on to provide investment advice and guidance (including  reviewing 
his SIPP and investments) to Mr D for about  the next five years. The course  of dealing strongly  
suggests that the adviser from Wallace White was the party who advised  Mr D what investments to 
make within his SIPP.   
I said that the fact there is no written  recommendation or suitability report for the investment was not 
persuasive evidence that the adviser  did not give advice  to Mr D. Firstly,  for whatever  reason, Wallace 
White does not hold a file in respect  of its dealings  with Mr D and has confirmed it does not. So there 
might have been some  form of recommendation but that is now not available. 
Secondly I found the adviser was not in the habit of recording such  formal written recommendations  to 
Mr D. Mr D has explained  that because of the close relationship  between them, the adviser would  
discuss potential actions or investments and then they would verbally agree  they should go ahead 
with his adviser presenting  him with any documents he needed to sign.  The lack of any formal written  
recommendations over time to Mr D suggested that it wasnt unusual for the adviser to make verbal 
recommendations that were  not confirmed  in writing.
I concluded it was more likely that Wallace White did play a material  part in facilitating  the 
arrangement of the investment into Majestic  Village and the Wallace  White  adviser did make the 
recommendation of a Stirling  Mortimer property investment fund to Mr D. 
I set out that Wallace White  suggested that Mr D applied  for an investment that did not exist and that 
the SIPP  provider substituted the Majestic Village fund. I discussed that Mr D witnessed a covering 
letter which directed investment into Stirling Mortimer  Global Property Fund PCC  Ltd, which  was an 
umbrella structure covering  several sub funds, one of which was Majestic Village. I was of the view 
that the adviser did facilitate the investment knowingly into Majestic Village. The adviser had full 
oversight of the investment  being  made. 
My view remains the same   that the evidence strongly suggests that the Wallace  White  adviser 
made the recommendation to Mr D to make  the investment  in Majestic Village.
So I have considered  whether that recommendation was suitable for Mr D and whether  also he was 
fully informed about the nature of the investment he was making.  
the suitability of the investment for Mr D.
Ref: DRN590478210As a written  record as to why the recommendation  was made by the adviser  is not available, there is 
no documentary evidence to confirm what  was advised to Mr D, especially  the nature of the 
investment. 
As I discussed in my decision on jurisdiction, Mr D says that he thought the recommendation he was 
given by Wallace White  was for a diversified  property investment covering  Europe. In fact Majestic 
Village was an investment in one concentrated residential  Spanish property development.  
Based on the evidence and submissions I have received I am persuaded that Mr Ds version  of 
events is the more likely  that he did not see the application and was not aware  he was investing in 
Majestic Village.   
In arriving at this view I have taken into account the application of April 2007  for the investment. This 
consists of a covering letter from Mr D dated 5 April 2007  and an application form of four pages.  Mr 
Ds letter  says:
Please find enclosed an application form for the Stirling  Mortimer Global Property Fund PCC Ltd into 
which I wish to invest £50,000 from my SIPP Current Account. 
The letter does not say Stirling Mortimer  Global  Property  Fund Majestic  Village  No 3. 
The first page of the application form itself records in highlighted capitals  Stirling Mortimer Global 
Property Fund Majestic Village No 3. 
So it would be reasonably clear what investment fund the application  form relates  to. 
However the application  form itself is not signed by Mr D  it is signed by two of the trustees  of the 
SIPP. 
Mr D says he did not see this application. What he says happened is that the adviser prepared the 
covering letter for him which  he then signed. He then relied on the adviser or Wallace White to attach 
the correct paperwork so that the investment could be made within his SIPP. So, he says, he would  
have no idea the application was for Majestic Village.  He has explained that the way investment 
decisions were made was that the adviser would  make a suggestion verbally  and then he would leave 
it to the adviser  to draw up the relevant  paperwork   as he did with the application  form and covering 
letter - for him to sign. He would not be given  written recommendations or investment literature  he 
trusted the adviser.  
As discussed, I have not seen any written recommendation from the Wallace White adviser  to Mr D as 
to why the investment  was recommended or explaining what  the nature  of the investment was or how 
it operated. As I referred to in the decision  on jurisdiction,  this lack of documented advice or action or 
providing ongoing updates  about Majestic Village was something that was consistent  in the way the 
adviser dealt  with Mr D. 
In the jurisdiction decision  I found  that Mr D was not aware that he had invested in Majestic Village 
and was not aware  of the nature of it until 2014. 
To reiterate,  after 2007 the SIPP Annual Reviews, which  set out the current SIPP holdings, were  
supplied to Mr Ds financial  adviser at the time of issue  so until the end of 2013  that would have 
been the adviser  who gave  Mr D the advice to enter into Majestic Village. The covering letters for the 
Annual Reviews, which  are addressed to the advising  business, state that there is a copy enclosed for 
the member (in this case Mr D) which  should  be forwarded to them. So the Annual Reviews are not 
sent to directly to the member  in this case Mr D. 
The Majestic Village fund updates,  issued  by Stirling Mortimer to the SIPP provider are forwarded  by 
the SIPP  provider to the financial adviser noted for the SIPP (in the same way as the Annual 
Reviews). 
Ref: DRN590478211Notes of meetings between Mr Ds IFA between 2012 and 2013 do not mention that Mr D is invested 
in Majestic Village. Similarly emails between the adviser  and Mr D do not mention  Majestic  Village.
The Stirling Mortimer  updates clearly demonstrated that Majestic  Village was in difficulty. Yet there is 
no evidence I have seen  of any discussion, for example by email or in the meeting notes I have  
discussed, of Majestic Village. Given that the investment was in jeopardy  it is surprising that the 
adviser would not be advising Mr D about this or Mr D would not be questioning and discussing the 
situation with the adviser. 
I believe that, as I said in the jurisdiction decision, when  taken as a whole the evidence  suggests that 
the adviser did not provide investment documentation to Mr D and did not confirm recommendations  
in writing. Similarly there is a lack of evidence that he supplied formal valuation  documents  from the 
SIPP provider to Mr D. The adviser says he hand  delivered the Annual Review documents  to Mr D but 
Mr D says this did not happen. He says all he received was ad hoc valuations  which had been put 
together by the adviser and did not show any detail. 
The course  of dealing and evidence  suggests to me that Mr Ds version of events  is more likely  
correct and he did not receive the SIPP providers Annual Reviews, written recommendations  from the 
adviser or information  sent to the adviser about Majestic Village. I also believe Mr D is more  likely 
correct that the application for Majestic Village was not shown to him and he only signed the covering 
letter. It is true that the application itself is not signed  by Mr D and all the details seem to have  been 
completed by other  parties. 
So my view is that it is more  likely that Mr D did not see the application, as he says. Given the fact 
that the adviser and Mr D shared the same  office and counted each other as friends it seems that a 
great deal was taken on trust, with Mr D assuming  that the adviser  would look after financial matters 
for him. 
 
Mr D has been consistent  in his submissions that he was content to invest in property   but of the 
diversified nature across  many countries that he had been led to believe, not Majestic  Village. I find 
his submissions persuasive and the more likely  version of events. This is given the lack of any 
evidence of explanation  of the nature of the Majestic Village investment by the adviser at the outset or 
over time. 
So Mr D was likely misled about the nature of the investment he was making. If correctly informed I do 
not believe he would  have made the investment in Majestic  Village. This was a very different 
investment than he had been led to believe he was making.  Instead of a well diversified  property 
fund investing across many  countries, his money was invested in (or the returns were to be generated 
from) one Spanish residential development. I have  not seen any evidence that Mr D wished to make 
such an investment as Majestic Village  and he would  not have done so if he had been fully informed  
of the nature of the investment. 
In arriving at this decision  I have taken into account Mr Ds background and history of investing.
Wallace White  have  previously highlighted that Mr D was prepared to take significant  risk with his 
investments, had a history  of investing in property and was a knowledgeable property investor, as well 
as being a chartered surveyor. So Wallace White  says that the Majestic  Village investment would  
have been appropriate for him and he should  have  been aware what he was investing in. 
Ref: DRN590478212In April 2006  a report was produced by Wallace  White for Mr and Mrs D. This detailed a proposal to 
place their investments and savings in a diversified range  of sectors  representing,  overall, a risk level 
of 5 out of 1 to 10. The proposed  investment  split was 
20% property 
37% UK equities
26% overseas equities
12% UK corporate bonds
5% cash
 
The SIPP valuation  reports  of 2008 to 2011 record that Mr Ds SIPP was invested (as well as Majestic  
Village) in cash and regulated diversified collective equity,  guaranteed  bond and property funds.  
Some of the holdings  over time are higher risk collective funds.  
Mr D did therefore have experience of risk based  funds  and the proposed asset split in 2006 
suggests this was acceptable and risk could  be taken. Also, I do not believe it has been disputed that 
Mr D was a knowledgeable property investor. He had invested  in commercial  property in the UK and 
had been involved  in property investments through employment. My understanding is that he had 
made commercial  property  investments prior to 2007 through his SIPP. 
So in my view Mr D would have been capable  in assessing the risks of Majestic  Village. However, the 
material issue  is, as I have discussed,  that Mr D did not know he had invested in Majestic Village  
that being  a particular residential Spanish resort development. 
The evidence  is that Mr D had not shown  any previous inclination to invest in high risk unregulated  
concentrated overseas  property investments of the same type as Majestic Village. Majestic  Village 
does sit uncomfortably  with the rest of his SIPP investments. At the time it was made, the investment 
also represented nearly 20% of the SIPP  total funds. It seems to me out of character that Mr D would 
wish to invest  so much of his SIPP money in a speculative unregulated  overseas  single property 
development, which could result in total loss. My understanding is that Mr D was knowledgeable in 
commercial property investments in the UK, not overseas developments  and he had not shown a 
willingness previously or since  to invest in any similar  overseas development such  as Majestic  Village. 
So I have not found persuasive  evidence  that Mr D wished to invest  in investments of a similar  nature 
to Majestic Village. 
In conclusion I am persuaded that Mr D was not informed  he was investing in Majestic Village when  
the advice was given to invest and the nature of it was not explained to him. He thought  he was 
investing in a diversified collective property fund and I am not persuaded  that he was advised  
otherwise or supplied  with information that would have caused him to question that. It was not until 
2014 that he received information that he had not invested in what  he thought. 
I am persuaded that Mr Ds objective was to invest  in a diversified collective property investment fund 
covering Europe and he did not wish to invest  in Majestic Village, which as I have explained was a 
very different type of investment. So Majestic Village  was not suitable for his objectives and he should  
not have been advised to invest in it. If Mr D had appreciated  the nature  of Majestic Village  he would  
not have invested.
Consequently, it is, my opinion,  fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
fair compensation
Given Mr Ds objective of investing in a collective European property fund, I believe  fair redress would 
be to compare  the value of the Majestic  Village investment with the returns  he would have achieved 
using a fair comparator  for a diversified European property investment.    
Ref: DRN590478213I have considered the submissions that have been made about Wallace Whites liability  for losses 
given that the adviser who recommended this investment joined another  regulated financial business 
(whilst continuing to be Mr Ds adviser)  in May/June 2007. And also that Mr D had an entirely new 
adviser from 2014.  I understand the point being made is that Wallace  Whites liability  for any losses 
should end when the original adviser left Wallace White  because it was the new business that the 
adviser worked for from May/June 2007 which was then responsible for taking action with respect to 
Majestic Village (such  as selling the investment if it was thought it was unsuitable for Mr D).  
However, it has been previously confirmed  with Stirling  Mortimer that Majestic  Village  was a closed 
ended investment fund registered in Guernsey  and could not be redeemed until the redemption date.  
The investor  could however potentially transfer the shares to another  shareholder. The Stirling 
Mortimer fund update of 2010 set out that the properties were due to be delivered by April 2010 - but 
this had not happened. This meant  that the properties could not be sold or any return for the funds 
realised. And it was difficult to source buyers in any event  because of the distressed state of the 
Spanish property market.  The update then discusses taking legal action against  the developers  to try 
and recover the funds investment in the development.   
As I understand it the Majestic Village fund is in liquidation and has been in administration  since at 
least 2014.
Given that the shares in the fund could not be redeemed  until the redemption date and by this point 
the fund was in jeopardy and not allowing redemptions  (and has not to my understanding allowed any 
since) it does not seem  to me that, even if it is argued that the adviser could have recommended  a 
sale, this could have taken place. I have not seen  any persuasive evidence  that the holding could 
have been sold to another shareholder who was willing to buy. So there was not a point where Mr D 
could have mitigated his losses and sold the fund. Consequently Mr Ds current loss flows  directly  
from the advice he was given by Wallace White.  He would  not be invested in Majestic Village were  it 
not for their advice. 
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would now be in if he had 
been given suitable  advice. 
I think  Mr D would have invested differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely  what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
 
what should Wallace White do?
 
To compensate Mr D fairly, Wallace  White must:
Compare the performance  of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Wallace White  should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Wallace White should pay into Mr D's SIPP to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Wallace White is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  allow 
for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr D's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
Ref: DRN590478214tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wallace  White deducts  income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Wallace White  should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Majestic 
Villagestill existsMSCI Europe 
Real Estate Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Wallace  White  should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable  to Mr Ds SIPP. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wallace White is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Wallace White may require  that Mr D provides an undertaking to pay 
Wallace White  any amount  he may receive  from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension  plan. 
Wallace White  will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk whilst investing in 
Ref: DRN590478215a diversified European property fund.
The MSCI Europe  Real Estate Index incorporates  the real estate returns  across 15 developed  
market European countries. I believe its a fair measure for the returns Mr D would have 
achieved. 
The mix and diversification provided  within the index is close enough  to allow me to use it as a 
reasonable measure  of comparison  given  Mr D's objectives.  
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Wallace White  should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5904782