K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading  as Aquacard) irresponsibly provided him 
with two credit cards  in 2014 and 2018.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 29 July 2019,  which forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint and invited  
both parties to make any final comments ahead  of my final decision. 
Following this, Aqua confirmed having  received my decision. But it didnt provide anything  for 
me to think  about or ask for any additional  time to do so. 
Mr C also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He said that he accepted my 
provisional decision and he didnt have anything further for me to think  about. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint in my provisional decision. 
And, in the absence  of anything further  from either  party, I see no reason to change  my 
conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
fair compensation  what  Aqua needs to do to put things right for Mr C.
Having carefully considered matters, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Aqua to put things right in the following way:
refund  all interest, fees and charges incurred as a result  of the credit limit on the first 
credit card being  increased from £250  to £750. Aqua sold the outstanding  balance on 
this account to a third party  debt purchaser.  So it either needs to buy the account  
back from the third party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the 
third party  in order for it to make  the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr C an amount 
equivalent to the reduction needed on the outstanding balance.  
write off the outstanding balance on the second  account provided in May 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 29 July 2019, Im upholding    
Mr Cs complaint. NewDay  Ltd should  put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55781292COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading  as Aquacard) irresponsibly  provided him with two 
credit cards in 2014  and 2018.
background
Aqua provided Mr C with a credit card in April 2014. He was given  an initial credit  limit of £250. The 
credit limit was increased from £250 to £750 four months later in August 2014.  Mr C ended  up 
defaulting on the account  and it was sold to a third-party debt purchaser in January  2017.
Mr C was then provided with a second Aqua card in May 2018.  The initial credit limit provided on this 
card was £900. As I understand it, Aqua was in the process of defaulting this account when Mr C 
complained that Aqua irresponsibly lent to him.
In its final response, Aqua told Mr C that it didnt think it did anything wrong in relation to    Mr Cs first 
account. But it accepted that as it defaulted  Mr Cs first account and sold the outstanding balance  to a 
third party debt purchaser,  it shouldnt have provided  Mr C with a second card. It said it would remove 
all the interest  and charges  applied to the account and also credit the account with a further £70 in 
order to put things  right for Mr C. Mr C remained dissatisfied at Aquas offer and referred his 
complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into Mr Cs complaint.  She thought  that Aqua  should also remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file  as a result of the second account   as well 
adjusting the balance in the way it said it would in its final response. She didnt say that Aqua had to 
do anything in relation  to the first card.  Aqua accepted our adjudicators view but Mr C didnt. As the 
parties werent able to agree on a resolution, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive considered  this while  provisionally deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that there are three overarching  questions 
that I need  to consider  in order to provisionally decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. These questions are:    
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would  be 
able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending  decision (in 
other words - when initially  providing the card and then increasing the credit limit to £750) on 
the first card?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely  than not have 
shown?
Is what Aqua  has offered to do to put things right for Mr C as a result of irresponsibly  
providing a second  card fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case?
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these  questions in turn.
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would  be able to 
repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending  decision on the first card?
Ref: DRN55781293 
Aqua gave Mr C his first Credit Card (as well as his second one) when it was regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were  set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules and 
guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer 
borrowing of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement  (like Mr Cs credit card),  to 
make payments within a reasonable  period.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer 
wouldve been  able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it 
could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender could 
take into account  before  agreeing to lend.  The key thing was that it required a lenders  checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the financial means of the borrower  and when what  was being borrowed was 
due to be repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind when  thinking about whether Aqua did what  it needed to before agreeing to 
Mr Cs credit card and each time it increased his credit limit. 
why I dont  think that it was unfair for Aqua to have provided Mr C with a credit card with an initial  limit 
of £250
Aqua says that it asked Mr C to confirm  his annual  income as well as the income for his household. It 
also says that it carried out a credit check which indicated  that he wasnt in arrears on any accounts 
and defaults. It says that based on the information  it had it was reasonable for it to have provided  Mr 
C with an initial credit limit of £250. 
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Aquas  checks  before providing the 
initial credit  limit of £250  were reasonable  and proportionate taking all the circumstances into account.
Mr C was given a credit facility where there was an expectation that hed repay  what  he borrowed  
plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. CONC doesnt set out what  a reasonable  
Ref: DRN55781294period of time is. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. 
That said, I think that Mr Cs self-declared income  together with there not being  anything too 
concerning on his credit file leads  me to think that it was reasonable and proportionate for Aqua to 
conclude Mr C would be able to repay £250 within a reasonable period of time. So I dont think that 
Aqua did anything wrong when it initially provided  Mr C with a credit card that had a £250 limit.    
why I think  it was unfair for Aqua to increase  the credit limit on Mr Cs card in August 2014
Aqua increased Mr Cs credit limit to £750 in August  2014. In my view,  this was a significant  increase 
and Aqua needed  to ensure  Mr C could sustainably  repay a balance of £750 within  a reasonable 
period of time. Aquas correspondence  appears to suggest that its decision to increase the credit limit 
on Mr Cs account was based  on his account management. I have  significant concerns with both the 
approach in principle and the result  produced in this case. 
Firstly, it is not clear  to me why a borrower  who is able to successfully manage a given credit limit can 
then automatically be deemed, without further checks, to be able to successfully manage a higher 
limit. It seems to me that this logic would  likely lead to continually increasing limits, unless or until 
problems arise.
In any event, even if I were  to leave  my concerns about this approach to one side, I dont think  that 
Aqua could  reasonably have believed that Mr C was managing his account well when his credit limit 
was £250.  
I say this because Aqua  would have seen that Mr C had incurred over limit fees, on more  than one 
occasion, when the limit on his account was £250. In my view, this suggested that Mr C may have 
been struggling financially  and, at the very least, it was a clear indication that he wasnt managing his 
account well. Aqua  will also be aware that it was required  to monitor Mr Cs repayment  record and 
offering assistance where it appeared that he might have been  experiencing financial difficulty.
I dont think that trebling  Mr Cs credit  limit (therefore  offering  more credit at an APR of 44.9%) when 
he was already struggling to keep within  his existing  limit was offering assistance.  In my view, Aqua 
was adding to any potential financial difficulty rather than offering assistance.       
Ive seen what  Aqua has said about it sending Mr C a letter  offering him the opportunity to opt out of 
the limit increase. But I dont see how this makes  a difference as to whether it was fair to offer the 
increase in the first place. It seems to me that Aqua  is trying  to outsource  its responsibility to assess  
whether Mr C was able to sustainably  make  the payments  to an increased  credit limit onto Mr C. And I 
dont find this argument persuasive. 
So having carefully thought  about everything, Im intending to say it was unfair  for Aqua to increase 
Mr Cs credit limit in August  2014. As Mr C would have paid additional interest and charges as a result 
of Aqua unfairly increasing his credit  limit, I think that he lost out as a result of what Aqua did wrong.  
This means  that Im intending to tell Aqua to put things right on the first card.
Is what  Aqua has offered to do to put things right for Mr C as a result of unfairly  providing an 
unaffordable second card fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case?
Aqua has already accepted that it shouldnt have provided Mr C with a second card in May 2018. It 
said that Mr Cs application for a second card should have  been declined because hed defaulted on 
the first one. So I dont need to look at Aquas lending  decision all I need to consider is whether  what  
it has offered to do to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN55781295Ive carefully considered everything  provided. In most cases, where credit  has been provided when  it 
shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable  for the lender to refund any interest and charges  
paid by the borrower  (if they were) plus interest. But the borrower would  be expected to repay  any 
remaining amount of the funds they were given. 
So ordinarily  Id expect  Mr C to pay back the funds he was lent  when  he used his card  but not the 
interest. Indeed this is what Im intending to tell Aqua to do in relation to the extra £500 it lent Mr C on 
the first card when it increased the credit  limit to £750 in August  2014. 
That said, Im mindful  of the particular circumstances  of this case and Aquas  decision to provide  Mr C 
with a second  credit card in May 2018. Aqua gave Mr C a credit card with a credit limit of £900 in May 
2018. It did this just over a year after an account with a lower credit  limit of £750 defaulted. So Aqua 
advanced an increased amount of credit when it ought  to have been aware that Mr C proved unable 
to repay a lower amount. 
In my view,  Aqua advanced  credit in circumstances where it ought reasonably  to have realised  that 
there was a significant risk it wouldnt get what it was advancing back  without this causing Mr C 
financial difficulty. As Aquas decision to advance credit in these  circumstances was so egregious and 
paying this balance back is likely to cause Mr C distress and financial difficulty going forward,  Im 
intending to say that Aqua  needs to do more  to put things  right here. And Im intending to say that 
Aqua should write off the outstanding  balance  on the credit card.
I turn now to Mr Cs credit file. Our adjudicator asked Aqua to remove all adverse entries  relating to 
the second card from Mr Cs credit file. But I dont think that doing this would be the fair and 
reasonable thing to do here given  my reasons for upholding the complaint.  To explain,  the basis for 
Mr Cs complaint was and is that he shouldnt be lent to because of the adverse information Aqua 
ought to have  been aware of. Ive accepted that this is the case  and thats why Ive upheld  Mr Cs 
complaint. 
In these circumstances, it seems to me that amending Mr Cs credit file to remove adverse  information  
thus increasing the chances of him being able to access further funds would  be counterproductive 
and arguably not in his best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So having carefully thought  about everything, as Im intending  to ask Aqua to write off the outstanding 
balance on the second  card,  Im not intending to say it should amend Mr Cs credit  file. This means  
that Im intending to tell Aqua that it can and should record  that it has written off an outstanding 
balance on the second  credit card.
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude Aqua  acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr C in some other way.  
So I find that Aqua didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page two of 
this decision, unless what I receive in response to this provisional decision  changes  my mind, Im 
intending to issue a final decision which  finds that:
Aqua did complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  before initially providing Mr C with a 
credit card that had a £250  credit  limit in April 2014 
Aqua didnt complete  reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself that he 
would able to repay the balance on his credit  card when it increased the limit to £750 in 
August 2014; 
Ref: DRN55781296reasonable and proportionate checks would  more likely than not have shown that   Mr C 
would unable  to sustainably make the payments  required once for this credit limit increase;
what  Aqua has already  agreed  to do to put things right for Mr C in relation to the second credit 
card isnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case; 
Aqua didnt also act unfairly  or unreasonably  towards Mr C in some other way.
The above findings leave me intending to conclude  that Aqua  has done something wrong in this case 
and that it should put things right in the way Ive set out below.
fair compensation   what Im intending to tell Aqua to do to put things right for Mr C.
Having carefully considered everything, I think it would  be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mr Cs complaint for Aqua to put things right in the following way:
refund all interest, fees and charges  incurred as a result  of the credit limit on the first credit 
card being increased  from £250 to £750. Aqua sold the outstanding balance  on this account  
to a third party debt purchaser. So it either needs to buy the account back  from the third party 
and make  the necessary  adjustments,  pay an amount  to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr C an amount equivalent to the reduction needed on the 
outstanding balance. 
write off the outstanding balance on the second account provided in May 2018.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained,  Im intending to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint and say that NewDay Ltd 
(trading as Aquacard) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 12 August 2019 changes  my mind, thats what Ill tell 
Aqua to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5578129