K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that a standing order set up to buy Premium Bonds with National Savings 
and Investments (NS&I) was returned  to her bank  account without an explanation from 
NS&I.
background
In January 2018, Mrs H went in to her bank and completed a standing  order  form. The 
standing order was set up to buy £150  of NS&I Premium Bonds each month. But Mrs H 
found that between February 2018  and April 2018,  each  of the standing order  payments had 
been returned without any explanation.
Mrs H says she hadnt asked for the standing order to be cancelled  and shes unhappy that 
NS&I didnt contact  her about  this. Mrs H also feels she was disadvantaged  because  she 
would have had extra bonds in prize  draws in March 2018  and April 2018 but for the problem  
with the standing order. Mrs H feels she should be compensated  for this.
NS&I say that because  Mrs H used the incorrect reference number on her standing order 
mandate the payments  had been  returned.  They say they have an automated  payment 
system which means that when their system doesnt recognise the reference number, the 
funds are automatically returned  to the customer without any human intervention.  So, they 
say they were unable  to let Mrs H know what had happened.
Mrs H was unhappy with NS&Is response so she brought her complaint  to our service.  Our 
adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. He said he didnt 
think NS&I misled Mrs H about which reference number to use when completing the 
standing order form. He also thought that NS&I acted reasonably in returning  the payments 
to Mrs Hs account.
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says that she doesnt think NS&I made it clear what reference number she needed  to 
use when completing  the standing order form. And had she been  told to complete the form 
online she wouldve included the correct  reference  number- the holder number, rather than 
the NS&I account  number  which  wasnt correct.   She says the holder  number  wouldve been  
the only option on the online form.
Mrs Hs representative, Mr H, spoke to NS&I  in December 2017. NS&I  have  sent me a copy 
of the call which Ive listened to. 
During this call, Mr H mentions that Mrs H would like to buy premium  bonds on a monthly 
basis. The advisor  told Mr H that Mrs H would  need  to complete a standing  order form at her 
bank and that she must put the holder  number  as the reference number. That was the right 
information. While Mrs H didnt speak directly  to NS&I herself, her representative on this 
complaint did. If Mrs H wasnt  sure what details to use I think  she couldve clarified this with 
NS&I beforehand.
Ref: DRN53214352Mrs H has said she shouldve been advised to complete an NS&I standing  order  form. 
Without this, she says the error  wouldnt have happened.  I do understand her point. 
However, there was more  than one way to set up a standing order,  and there  was no 
particular duty on NS&I to direct  her to do it in a certain way and not another. As I have 
already said, the information they gave  to Mrs Hs representative, Mr H, was correct. 
Mrs H says that although she didnt use the correct reference number on her standing order 
form, she believes NS&I had enough  information to be able to trace her account. 
As NS&I explained, their payment  process  is automatic, so if the reference number wasnt  
recognised the money would be returned  straight  away. Because  of this, NS&I say they 
couldnt have  notified Mrs H. I cant know if Mrs H would  have  won in the monthly prize draw 
had the bonds which werent bought  been entered, but I dont think  NS&Is payment return  
process was unreasonable. And I dont  think there  was any obligation on NS&I to contact 
Mrs H when the payments  failed.  
Overall, I dont  think NS&I have done anything wrong. So I dont think  it would be fair for me 
to require them to compensate Mrs H.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5321435