K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that he was advised to switch some of his pension into a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  so that he could invest in a green oil investment  scheme.   The 
advice was given  by an appointed representative of Intrinsic Wealth  Limited, now Quilter  
Wealth Ltd.  Mr  W thinks that advice was unsuitable as it did not take into account the 
proposed investment which  involved  too much risk to be suitable for his pension.   
background
Quilters position was that it was not responsible for the advice as it had not authorised the 
appointed representative to give the disputed advice.  It thought  the ombudsman  service 
could not consider the complaint against it.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision in this complaint.  I explained why Intrinsic (now  Quilter) is 
responsible for the advice and why the ombudsman service can consider the complaint.
One of our investigators  then considered the merits of the complaint.  He explained why he 
thought the complaint should  be upheld and how he thought things should be put right.   In 
summary he said:
Mr W had an existing SIPP worth around  £80,000.
Mr W had said that he had increased the value of his SIPP by about  £30,000  over 
the previous year or so by share  trading.
Mr W received  information from an unregulated business  about  a green oil 
investment scheme.
The appointed  representative sent a recommendation  letter.   It summarised Mr Ws 
circumstances.  It  said Mr Ws attitude to risk was Aggressive  and that he wanted  to 
invest in the green oil scheme and did not want any advice on that investment.
The recommendation letter went on to recommend switching  part of Mr Ws pension 
to a new SIPP which was the only SIPP accepting investments into that scheme.
The recommendation letter did also say that the new SIPP was more  expensive and 
that the investment would involve more  risk than a diversified portfolio.
In order to give suitable advice on the transfer of funds to the new SIPP  the 
appointed representative should have considered  whether the investment met 
Mr Ws attitude to risk, and whether he understood the risks and could  afford to take 
the risks involved.
The green oil investment was high risk.  Mr W was transferring about  half of his 
pension to invest in it.
Even if Aggressive was an accurate assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk his 
financial position was not strong.  
The appointed  representative should have  advised Mr W against the investment.  If it 
had done so it is more likely that he would  have accepted that advice rather than 
insist on investing.  He would have acted  on clear advice from Quilters regulated 
adviser despite what he may have been  told about the investment by the unregulated 
business that introduced the investment to him.
Quilter should put things right by:
oComparing the performance of Mr Ws SIPP with the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index.
oIf this comparison shows Mr W has suffered a loss, compensation should  be 
paid to Mr Ws pension or to him direct if that is not possible.  
Ref: DRN57666862oAnd pay Mr W £500 for the significant trouble and upset he will have suffered 
as a result of the loss of about half of his pension.
Mr W, who is represented by lawyers,  agreed  with the investigator.  Quilter did not but it says 
it has no further points  to add.
my findings
On a preliminary point,  it remains my view that the ombudsman service can consider this 
complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the appointed representative  tried to limit the advice given  in this case. 
However the adviser should have considered the suitability  of the overall  transaction.  The  
adviser should have considered the proposed  green oil investment in order  to be able to 
give suitable advice  on the setting up of a new SIPP and the transfer  of some of the existing 
pension funds to it.
Alternatively if the adviser could not consider the green oil investment he should have 
explained why.  Mr W could then have gone  to another regulated adviser  and got suitable 
advice.  
Mr W was not a typical investor.  His financial position was not strong but he did have an 
interest in higher risk investments.  He had a SIPP which is unusual for a pension fund of his 
size.  He had been  trading shares  in it with some success.  This  was high risk - particularly  
given Mr Ws financial position.  And the recommendation letter  did include some warning 
about a lack of diversification if he invested  (around) half his pension  in the green oil 
scheme.
When we asked Mr W what motivated him to invest in the fund he said:
To me it looked an excellent opportunity  to invest in a green  company in a sector 
that looked like it would  only get better and bigger.  All the companies were British  
and because it was in a SIPP I believed my money would be safe and receive a good 
return year on year.
An unregulated business introduced Mr W to the green oil investment and it will have 
affected his opinion of it.  It is understandable  that Mr W was optimistic about it  he would 
not have invested in it otherwise.  But he also seems to have  got the impression that 
investing in it within his pension would be safe as well as successful.   He does not seem to 
have chosen the investment as punt or because he had a high tolerance or risk.  Rather he 
seems to have been investing in it to moderate the amount of risk he was taking with part of 
his pension.
However the investment was a high risk speculative investment.   It was an illiquid investment 
that had an unregulated structure.  It involved considerably more risk than investing in a 
portfolio of UK and US shares as Mr W had been doing within his SIPP.  Mr  W should have 
been advised against investing in it and in my view he would have accepted and acted on 
any such clearly explained advice from a regulated financial adviser.  This is the case 
notwithstanding Mr Ws relatively  high tolerance  of risk.
Ref: DRN57666863It is therefore my view that Mr W was given unsuitable advice by Quilters  appointed 
representative.  And since the investment  in the green oil scheme  is now effectively 
worthless, the unsuitable advice has harmed Mr W.
It is my view that with suitable  advice  Mr W would not have transferred (about) half of his 
pension from one SIPP to another in order to invest in the green  oil scheme.  He was 
however open  to advice about his pension and moderating his exposure  to risk of at least  
part of his fund.   
I agree  with the investigator about  how things should be put right.   Comparing the 
performance of Mr Ws actual fund (invested in the green oil scheme)  compared to the 
FTSE UK Private  Investors Income Total Return  Index seems  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I also agree  that the loss of a large proportion of his pension will have caused Mr W 
considerable trouble and upset and that he should be compensated for this also.   I agree 
with the £500 proposed by the investigator.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr W would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr W's circumstances and objectives  when he invested. 
what should  Quilter do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Quilter  should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Quilter  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension  plan,  it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
Ref: DRN57666864marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay £500 to Mr W for the trouble and upset  he has been caused  as a result  of the 
unsuitable advice  to transfer about half of his pension into a SIPP  to invest in the 
"green oil" scheme which is now effectively worthless.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Quilter  should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The green  
oil 
investment  
schemestill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Quilter should  take ownership  of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Quilter  is unable  to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Quilter  may require that Mr W provides an undertaking to pay 
Quilter any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Quilter will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Had Quilter given suitable advice I dont think there would be a second SIPP.  Its not fair 
that Mr W has to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.
Ideally, Quilter should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed.  This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr W back in the position  he would have been in.
So to provide certainty to both parties,  I think it is fair that Quilter pays  Mr W an upfront lump 
Ref: DRN57666865sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees) 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.   This  should provide 
a reasonable period to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.   This should  
provide a reasonable period for this to be worked  out so the SIPP can be closed.
In return Quilter may ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to give it the net amount of any 
payment he may receive from the investment  in that five year period, as well as any other  
payment he may receive from any party as a result  of the investment.  That  undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount he may receive.  Quilter  will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr W to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded  by my decision may be dependent  upon 
the provision of that undertaking.
If after five years, Quilter  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Quilter  fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr W should then have the option of trying  to cancel the 
investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W seems to have  wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some 
investment risk but less risk than a self-traded  equity portfolio.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold Mr Ws complaint.   My decision is that Quilter Wealth  Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. Quilter Wealth Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to 
Mr W in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Ref: DRN57666866Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5766686