K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited cancelled all three  of his
credit cards accounts he held with it. As a result,  hes unable  to use a linked voucher that
entitled him to a free flight that he calculates would  have  been worth around £4,500.
background
Mr C had three American Express cards. Family members were  additional  cardholders.  One
of the cards  was a British Airways Premium  Plus card, and one of its benefits was that, if
Mr C spent more than £10,000 in a year, he was entitled to a British Airways flight. Mr C had
spent enough  on his British Airways Premium Plus card to earn the flight that was offered
with the card.
American Express introduced a Shop Small scheme. Under  the scheme, small businesses
could sign up to participate,  and customers who used  their cards in participating  outlets
would receive rewards  in the form of cashback. For every transaction  of £10 or over, theyd
receive a fixed payment  of £5 back.  So, for example, a transaction  of £9.99  wouldnt receive
any cashback, but one of £10 would receive  £5, as would a payment of £1,000.
Mr Cs card statements indicate  that, while the Shop Small  scheme  was running, he made a
number of payments  of exactly £10 to participating outlets. The additional cards  were used
in a similar way.
American Express suspended all of Mr Cs accounts and on 4 December  2018  gave notice
that it would  close  them, which  it did on 11 February  2019.  The result  of that was that Mr C
lost all the benefits hed accrued under the Shop Small scheme  as well as the flight voucher
on the British  Airways  Premium Plus card account.
Mr C complained to this service, and I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out the main 
part of my findings below: 
Mr Cs primary concern  is that American Express closed  his accounts without giving any
reason. The account terms said that it could close an account by giving two months 
written notice, but could  do so immediately for certain reasons, including  if you 
breach another agreement you have with us or another of our group companies  
They also said that American Express could suspend the account for improper use.
The Shop Small scheme had its own terms. They included:
American Express reserves the right to suspend or cancel the offer if any fraud or
gaming by users, technical  failure or any other  factors outside our control  impairs 
the integrity or proper functioning  of the offer which may result in any loss or 
damage to American  Express. We will try to give you reasonable notice of any 
such incident and take reasonable steps to ensure you are not unfairly impacted if 
the incident is due to something we have done or failed to do.
American Express reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to disqualify any 
individual suspected of fraud, gaming the offer or any breach of the Offer  Terms.
Mr C has said that he and his family  (as additional  cardholders) made  extensive  use of 
the Shop  Small offer over a relatively short period of time, making relatively small 
purchases, just large enough  to qualify for the £5 cashback in each case.  Ive 
Ref: DRN53116672considered his statements for the relevant period, and it appears that that may not be 
the full picture.
In a large number  of instances, payments of £10 appear to have been made one card,
followed by identical payments on other  cards,  including the cards  of additional 
cardholders. So, for example,  one occasion  13 payments of £10 were  made  to one 
merchant within three  minutes on cards  in six different names. I think  it unlikely that Mr 
C and five family members were  all present at the same time, either using their cards for 
identical payments  or splitting the cost of a £130  transaction. And I note that Mr C 
contacted American  Express to ask whether he could use the cards  of additional 
cardholders on his account (and was told he could).  In the circumstances, I think  he 
was using not only his own cards but those of additional  cardholders to spread 
payments so as to maximise the cashback  payments.   
The terms of the Shop Small offer dont define  what American Express means by 
gaming the offer. But it does appear  to me to be quite clear that spreading payments 
across multiple cards  in order  to receive  £65 instead  of £5 (to use the example above) 
is exactly the type of behaviour American  Express had in mind.  Mr C wasnt simply 
increasing his spending  in participating outlets  which of course  the scheme was 
meant to encourage.
Im satisfied therefore that American  Express was well within its rights to withdraw  the 
offer from Mr C.
I turn now to the suspension and closure  of Mr Cs accounts. Mr C says this was not an
appropriate response to the way he was using the Shop Small scheme. I note that one 
of the effects of that was that he was unable to use an airline  voucher,  which he says he 
would have been able to use if his accounts  had remained  open.
American Express was entitled to close  Mr Cs accounts by giving him two months 
notice, and thats what it did. This service wont generally interfere with the legitimate 
exercise of a financial businesss commercial discretion, and I dont believe I should do 
so here.  It was primarily for American  Express to decide whether  it was prepared to 
continue to provide  Mr C with card facilities. Whilst it didnt need a specific  reason to act 
as it did, I think it did have  a reason  the way in which Mr C had sought to take 
advantage of the Shop Small scheme  and I think too that reason was legitimate.
For completeness, however, I would comment that American Express  might have been  
justified in closing  the accounts immediately. It could do so if Mr C breached any other
agreement he had with it  including the Shop  Small agreement. It could  disqualify Mr C 
for gaming that scheme, indicating in my view that doing so would be a breach of it. For 
these reasons, I dont  believe that, in suspending and then closing Mr Cs accounts,  
American Express treated  him unfairly.
My provisional decision was not to recommend that American Express  do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN53116673American Express accepted my provisional decision; other than to seek  clarification of one 
procedural matter, Mr C didnt respond. I dont therefore see any reason to change  my 
conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require American  Express Services Europe Limited to do 
anything further  to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5311667