K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns unhappy that a new direct debit he set up wasnt collected in time to meet the due 
date to repay his credit  card and that MBNA  Limited  has recorded a missed payment marker 
on his credit file.
background
On 6 February 2019 MBNA attempted to collect a direct debit but it was returned unpaid.  
Mr N then made a manual  payment the next day to cover this balance. And he later set up a 
new direct  debit to ensure  future  payments were taken on time. But MBNA  says he missed  
the deadline for the direct debit to collect the next monthly payment. As a result  the 
March 2019 payment wasnt received  by the due date. MBNA says it spoke to Mr N on the 
phone and he was told that this was unlikely to impact his credit file but it couldnt guarantee 
that it wouldnt.
Mr N wants the adverse information MBNA  has recorded on his credit file removed.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
The payment  in February  2019 hadnt registered  as a late payment on Mr Ns credit 
report. But the March one had been  reported  and is likely to show on his credit 
report.
When Mr N set up his new direct  debit online he was warned it wouldnt take effect 
until his next statement is produced and it advised at least the minimum payment 
should be made by another  means otherwise a payment may be missed  and a 
default sum shown  on his statement.  He was warned that might also be reported to 
credit bureau and may show on his credit report.
As the statement was produced on 12 February  2019 before the new direct  debit  was 
set up on 18 February  2019 the message was clear.  And Mr N shouldve made a 
manual payment in March 2019. MBNA  didnt make  an error by not collecting this 
direct debit  payment.
MBNA is required  to report information  to credit reference agencies  reflecting the 
accounts management. And she cant  reasonably ask it to remove the missed  
payment marker.  But Mr N can place a notice of correction on his credit  report to 
allow him to set out the context of this entry.
Mr N remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says the information 
about the dates when  changing a direct debit  wasnt clearly visible.  He has made great 
efforts to pay off his card and is now being labelled as a bad payer which  isnt fair. He still 
wants the negative  mark removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58149472I understand Mr Ns frustration at whats happened. But the simple  fact is he was warned 
about what would happen when he changed  his direct debit and was effectively  told he 
should make  a manual payment in March 2019.
As he didnt  do so and the new direct debit wasnt taken he missed a payment.  MBNA has a 
duty to accurately report the conduct  of his account  to credit reference  agencies. Here it has 
recorded a missed payment marker which  correctly  reflects  what  happened. 
So, although  I recognise Mr Ns strength of feeling, Im afraid  I cant  fairly or reasonably 
require MBNA to remove it from his credit  file as hed like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814947