K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that UK Insurance Limited has turned down his claim on his travel 
insurance policy.
background
In September  2018, Mr H called UKI to register a claim for the loss of three  bags on his flight  
home following a trip abroad with his wife and children. He said he checked in seven bags  
on the journey.  Following  the registration of the claim, UKI asked Mr H to provide 
documentation to support  his claim,  which included confirmation from the airline that the 
bags had gone missing.
Mr H provided  some  of the documentation  requested, such as receipts for items in the 
missing bags, but said he was having  difficulty getting the required report from the airline. In 
May 2019 Mr H sent a copy  of an email from the airline, which was dated  December  2018,  
that said five bags had been  checked in on his return  flight  and five arrived in the UK  so 
the airline wasnt considering any loss claim. UKI sent Mr H a letter  asking him to explain 
why there  were discrepancies between his account and the airlines  response   UKI says 
Mr H told it he had provided all the information he could. UKI sent him a letter  stating it was 
satisfied the claim had been submitted  with the intention of gaining financially from the 
policy and that this constitutes fraud. It said he had deliberately provided inaccurate 
information and it would  look to cancel his policy.
Our investigator said UKI didnt have enough  evidence to prove Mr H had committed fraud. 
So he said it should  remove  any fraud markers it had applied and re-assess  his insurance 
claim. He also required  UKI to pay £150  compensation.
UKI didnt  agree with our investigators view. It said the information provided by the airline 
showed the loss did not occur as reported  and therefore it was right to refuse the claim on 
the basis of fraud. It also said Mr Hs delay in sending  the email  from the airline points to an 
attempt to mislead it. As the investigators view remained  unchanged, UKI requested an
ombudsman review the complaint.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I felt the complaint should be upheld. The 
relevant parts of the provisional decision are copied  below.
Ref: DRN53421972UKI has referred to the policy terms when refusing to pay the claim and specifically 
mentioned the condition  relating to fraud  which states;
7. Fraud
You must be honest and truthful  in your  dealings with us at all times.
If you, any insured  person or anyone acting  on your behalf  attempts to deceive us or 
knowingly makes a false claim, we have  the right to refuse claims and retain  any 
premium paid. We may recover from you any costs we have incurred, including  the costs 
of investigating  the claim.
We will not pay a claim which is in any way fraudulent, false  or exaggerated.  We will also not 
deal with any claims following discovery  of this behaviour regardless of when the claims 
occurred.
Where fraud is alleged, it is for the insurer to prove  that fraud  has occurred. Fraud  is a 
serious allegation and therefore  strong  evidence of proof is required. So I need to 
consider whether UKI has done enough to prove that Mr H has attempted to deceive it or 
knowingly made a false claim, as determined by the policy terms and conditions.
Having thought about this carefully, I dont  currently  think  there  is enough evidence  to enable
UKI to reasonably  apply this condition to Mr Hs claim.
Mr H has been consistent in his account  that three out of the seven bags he checked in 
with the airline  didnt  arrive back into the UK. I acknowledge he originally referred to four 
bags missing but he did later correct  his mistake  on the basis  he had already made his 
report to the airline  stating  it was three  bags  I think this was likely  to have been an error in 
the initial call made. To support his claim Mr H provided proof  of his travel arrangements 
along with clothing receipts  and delivery notes which he says are for the items which  were  
in the missing bags.  And he supplied copies of the reports he had made to the airline  
about his missing luggage. So it would  certainly seem that the documentation he initially  
supplied supported his account  of the event.
UKI has specifically referred  to the email from the airline when declining the claim for fraud. 
And I accept  the information provided by the airline  is different to the account given by Mr H - 
and that UKI would want to investigate this issue. But in my opinion this email  isnt enough 
proof that Mr H was attempting to make a false claim. And I havent  seen  any other 
correspondence to show that UKI attempted to question this further  in any depth  with the 
airline. I would  expect UKI to provide rather more in the way of evidence to support an 
allegation of fraud than,  relatively concise, information from the airline.
It isnt clear to me why Mr H didnt send the airlines  December email  to UKI until five months 
later. But once again Im not satisfied  that this shows  an attempt to mislead the insurer.
Taking all of this into account,  my current thinking is that UKI hasnt done enough to prove 
that Mr H has attempted to make a fraudulent claim. So I require UKI to reinstate his 
policy, if it has already been  withdrawn, and remove any fraud markers it may have 
entered on any databases. And I agree with the investigator that UKI should  compensate  
Mr H for the likely stress this situation  would have placed him under, considering  that it 
would have potentially  made it more difficult for him to obtain insurance in the future. The 
£150 already recommended is a fair and reasonable figure as compensation.
But I am departing  from the investigators  recommendations  in relation to what now needs 
to happen in respect of the claim. Our investigator recommended that UKI re-assess  the 
Ref: DRN53421973claim, although he did state  that this didnt  mean  it had to accept or pay the claim. But I 
dont think UKI needs to re-assess  the claim. When making an insurance  claim, it is for the 
person insured to reasonably show that they have a valid claim under the policy  - I dont 
think Mr H has currently done enough to prove  he has a valid claim. There  is clearly a 
discrepancy between  what Mr H has told UKI and the information obtained from the airline  
Mr H needs to do more  to show that his version of events is accurate. So I dont require  UKI 
to do anything further on the claim  at this stage.
responses to the provisional  decision
UKI responded to the provisional decision to say it didnt agree. It has specifically referenced 
three aspects of the case which  Ive detailed below:
the decision refers  to Mr H being  consistent  with his account  despite the 
inconsistency in the number of bags  reported as lost to UKI (four instead of the three 
that had been reported to the airline);
the evidence  he has provided in terms of reporting the issue  to the airline  was two 
days after he landed, and Mr H hasnt provided  any clarity as to why he didnt log this 
with the airline  immediately  on arrival;
UKI doesnt consider the delay  in Mr H sending UKI the airline email  about the lost 
bags to be misleading but it is the continual denial of Mr H that he couldnt get this 
information when  he already had it which is misleading.
UKI also referred to its call notes as evidence of what it did do in the investigation  of the 
claim. 
Finally, UKI disagreed  with the request  to pay compensation to Mr H. It said it hadnt as yet 
put his details on any fraud databases  and no action had been taken in relation to the policy 
so he hadnt been impacted. It also said Mr H was given the opportunity to address the 
concerns when it wrote to him and he was given warning of the implications of his lack of 
response.
Mr H also responded  to the provisional  decision.  He called our investigator  to provide more 
information about his claim circumstances.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the comments made by UKI but Im afraid these dont change my 
decision. I accept  that Mr H made an error  in his first contact with it about the number of 
bags. But he subsequently corrected this and provided the evidence  of the report he made  to 
the airline prior to the contact. I still think this was just an error in that first notification.  
And I agree with UKI that the points  about why Mr H didnt report the loss to the airline  upon  
arrival in the UK and why he didnt send the airlines  email to them immediately should be 
answered by Mr H. But I dont consider the fact he hasnt provided an answer is enough  to 
decline the claim using  the condition relating to fraud. 
The claim records that UKI has provided  show numerous calls took place on this complaint 
over many months   but in the main these are calls between UKI and Mr H in relation to 
Ref: DRN53421974providing information for his claim,  such as obtaining an airline report. I remain  of the view 
that UKI had not done enough at the point of declining  the claim under the fraud condition for 
me to consider it was fair and reasonable for it to do so.
In relation to the compensation award, I appreciate  that UKI hasnt recorded any details on 
fraud databases but that doesnt alter the situation  Mr H was in. Mr H was informed by UKI in 
a letter  dated  29 May 2019 that it was refusing  his claim on the basis of fraud.  Mr H has told 
our service  he was very stressed and upset  at what had happened and the allegation of 
fraud that was made by UKI. Mr H wouldnt have known  that UKI hadnt  done what it said it 
would do  so the stress  he has referred to hasnt been lessened  by this fact. And while I 
accept the previous letter sent to Mr H on 22 May 2019 did include the fraud  condition,  this 
letter refers  to drawing  to his attention this condition  Im not persuaded Mr H would have 
realised that this was the likely outcome  if he didnt  respond. Im therefore satisfied the 
award should be made.
Turning to the details provided by Mr H, while I thank  him for keeping us updated  with the 
situation, Mr H must  prove  he has a valid claim under his travel insurance  policy  for loss of 
luggage to UKI, not to this service.  I understand Mr H has passed this information over to 
UKI - it would be down  to it to decide  if this information is enough to show  that he has a valid 
claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I uphold Mr Hs complaint against UK 
Insurance Limited. 
UK Insurance Limited  needs to do the following;
Reinstate Mr Hs policy, if already cancelled;
Remove any fraud markers from his insurance  record and any databases;
Pay £150 in compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342197