K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about Advanced Asset  Consultants Ltd. He says that he lost out when  
his Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) decreased after Advanced Asset  Consultants  
refused to continue with a transfer  that they previously recommended. 
background
Mr A approached Advanced Asset Consultants (AAC)  in November 2016 for advice about 
transferring pension benefits he held in an occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) with a 
former employer. He had obtained a CETV quotation of around £139,000 before AAC were 
involved.
In March 2017 an occupational pension review (fact find) was completed  by AAC. This was 
updated in July 2017. This recorded that Mr A;
was 55 years old
planned to continue in his current work for a further two to three years and then look 
for part time work  and phase  into retirement  
should his employer move onto shift patterns he would  potentially look to leave 
sooner 
he would  then look to work part-time  until age 65, at which time he would fully retire 
access to these  (pension) monies  would only be required to plug any gap between  
part-time earnings  and sufficient secure income coming into payment and potentially 
in event of either death
did not need immediate access to all tax free cash entitlement. Instead,  having 
discussed retirement options he felt that a phased approach  was more suited to his 
needs, objectives and aspirations  
an objective was to ensure he had full flexibility with regards to the timing,  level and 
tax efficiency of benefits
A new CETV  was provided by the scheme  in May 2017 and was valued  at just over 
£165,000 with an expiry date of 15 August 2017.
AAC produced its advice  in an Occupational  Pension Review  report on 28 July 2017. The 
report concluded that a transfer away from the scheme was suitable  for Mr A. However,  it 
said this on the basis that Mr A wouldnt take any tax free cash  and that there  would be no 
immediate need  for income from the funds.  It also said:
the analysis  indicated a healthy  surplus  income in excess  of £1,000 per month. As 
such, AAC would like to see the majority of this surplus saved to help build  additional 
wealth, and
as Mr A would potentially be losing death benefits if he left his current employer AAC 
recommended that he took advice with regards to a whole of life, joint life first death 
assurance policy to provide financial  assistance.
Mr A signed  the Occupational Pension Review on 28 July 2017.
On 31 July 2017 Mr A emailed AAC to indicate that he didnt need  the life insurance and that 
he was willing to set up the savings account.  In a subsequent  email  he said that he couldnt 
save as much as they advised and that he wanted access to a tax free lump sum ASAP.  
AAC said that this change in information impacted on the advice and so they wanted  
clarification so they could  amend their calculations.
Ref: DRN55535802On 1 August  2017 Mr A requested the paperwork he had signed with AAC to be returned 
and stopped further engagement with them.
Mr A received a new CETV in November  2017  and the value had decreased to just over 
£147,600.The transfer went ahead with a new advisor.
Mr A complained to AAC in late 2017  as he was unhappy with the drop in value  of his CETV.
AAC rejected his complaint in 9 January 2018. He was unhappy with the response and 
referred his complaint to this service  in May 2018.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and said that he didnt think  it should be 
upheld. AAC had until 15 August 2017 to assist Mr A in the transfer  and in his opinion Mr A 
had disengaged himself as a client on 1 August 2017. This meant that he hadnt provided  
AAC with the opportunity to complete the work  they were  trying to carry out.
Mr A was unhappy with the adjudicators view and the case  has been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration and his belief that he has lost out by not transferring his 
pension as and when he wished to. However, Im not satisfied  that AAC are responsible for 
that and so I dont  think  the complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr A held benefits in a final salary or defined  benefit OPS.  These  schemes provide 
valuable benefits  which are generally guaranteed.  For the individual,  the pension they will 
receive is not dependent on investment risk or stock market fluctuations. So whilst  a defined 
benefit scheme may be less flexible than a personal  pension, it will generally offer more  
secure benefits. So transferring out will almost always involve a degree of risk for the 
pension holder and this is something an adviser must take into account. 
When considering  transfers out of defined benefit  schemes like this one, the industry 
regulator has provided clear guidance to advisers on the approach that should be taken.  It 
says:
 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out  
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's  best interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
So the starting point is that transferring out will not be suitable  for most people  and a transfer  
should only be recommended if it is in the consumers best interests.
AAC provided its report to Mr A on 28 July 2017 which  recommended  that transfer of the 
Ref: DRN55535803OPS benefits was in Mr As best interests.  But this was based on an understanding  that Mr A 
would not take any immediate tax free cash and that there would  be no need  to derive 
income from the transferred funds in the short term. The report also outlined that the advice  
was dependent on two additional conditions; these were that Mr A would save regularly from 
a surplus of income and that some  additional life cover should be arranged.
Mr A signed  the report and so appears to have accepted the recommendations. He 
expressly agreed in an email to the recommendation on savings.
But on 1 August 2017 there was a further fairly extensive email  exchange between Mr A and 
AAC. This exchange ended with Mr A withdrawing his instructions from AAC. 
Ive considered this exchange and Im satisfied  that at least two things became apparent;  
one was that Mr As income surplus was lower than had been contemplated in the advice 
report and, secondly,  he wanted access to tax free cash  ASAP.
AAC felt that these  were  significant changes in circumstances which  meant its original 
assessment of suitability  needed to be reconsidered. It said that it couldnt go ahead with the 
transfer as it was no longer satisfied that it was in Mr As best interests. It recommended the 
transfer be deferred. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AAC to take the approach that it did at this point. I 
think these were significant changes to the position it had understood. I know Mr A says that 
he had always intended to take tax free cash and that he had made this clear.  Ive read the 
email he sent AAC earlier in their relationship  which said this. But when AAC completed its 
fact finding with him it is documented that there was no need  for immediate access  to the tax 
free cash. So I think its understandable that AACs advice was based on that assumption.  
Accessing tax free cash in full as soon as possible would clearly have a significant  impact on 
the viability of the transfer when it had been recommended on the basis  that there would be 
no tax free cash taken  at the outset. The tax free cash would be up to around 25 per cent of 
the available  funds.
Im satisfied that AAC had been reasonably clear, both in its fact find and in its advice report, 
that its recommendation that transfer was suitable for Mr A was based upon  no tax free cash  
being taken immediately. Mr A may have wished to access tax free cash  but the advice that 
transfer was suitable was based on the fact that he didnt need to do so and wouldnt take 
tax free cash immediately.  Thats the advice Mr A appears to have accepted.
Mr A was clearly frustrated and chose  to ask AAC to return his papers before AAC could 
make any reassessment. The CETV  didnt  expire  for a further two weeks. AAC may have 
been able to complete its reassessment in that time. If it hadnt been  able to reassess or if it 
had made  a further recommendation  against transfer, then its possible Mr A may still have  
been able to take the CETV given that he had taken independent advice, but that didnt 
happen.
But given the changes in circumstances, I think AAC was acting reasonably when  it said that 
it could no longer recommend the transfer was in Mr As best interests without further 
assessment.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that it would be fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint. Im not 
satisfied that AAC caused Mr A to lose out on the higher CETV. I dont think  AAC was acting 
Ref: DRN55535804unreasonably when it told him that it would have  to reassess its advice given the change in 
circumstances. Im satisfied that Mr A did change his instructions  both in relation to his 
potential income  surplus and in relation to the tax free cash position. This may have been as 
a result of some  misunderstanding,  or to some reflection by him, but I dont agree that AAC 
moved the goalposts  as Mr A has said. AAC was under an obligation to only recommend 
the transfer if it was satisfied that it was in Mr As best interest  and so it was reasonable for it 
to say it needed to make  a reassessment. It was a high risk transaction, Mr A was potentially 
giving up guaranteed pension benefits  and if the transfer had proceeded it could not be 
undone.
final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5553580