K820x#14complaint
Mr D1 and Mr D2 complain that British Gas Insurance  Limited  is responsible for poor service 
in connection  with a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. Where the complaint is about a claim under 
an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing  with the claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance  company  but we dont name any other  party.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Mr D1 lives in a southern  city where he and Mr D2 have a property that they let to one or 
more tenants. Mr D2 lives further  north. 
Mr D1 and Mr D2 had a British Gas policy for the rental property. They  renewed  the policy in 
October 2018. It covered plumbing and drainage and home  electrics  as well as the central 
heating system. For the boiler it included an annual service visit. They  were  paying the 
annual premium by monthly instalments of about  £63.00.
On behalf of Mr D1 or Mr D2 someone  arranged an annual service visit for 20 December 
2018. To that extent they were making a claim under the policy.
The British  Gas engineer categorised the boiler as immediately dangerous and he capped  
its gas supply  leaving the rental  property  with no central heating and hot water.  A 
salesman from British Gas (or strictly  speaking a sister company of that insurance company) 
visited, took photographs and quoted for a new boiler.
Mr D1 or Mr D2 got an independent company to give a second  opinion. It inspected  the 
boiler on 22 December  2018 and reconnected the supply  for a fee of £75.00.
Mr D1 complained that there had been no need for British  Gas to cap off the supply  and it 
was attempting  pressure selling  of a new boiler for nearly £4,000.00.
In response, British  Gas offered to reimburse  the £75.00 and to pay £50.00  compensation. 
On 14 January 2019 British Gas sent Mr D1 a cheque for £125.00.  
Mr D2 cancelled the policy  and he and brought his complaint to us. Mr D1 joined in that 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He treated it as a 
complaint against  a sister company of British  Gas. He didnt think  it had treated Mr D 
unfairly.
Mr D2 disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Ref: DRN55525242His elderly mother booked everything. 
The boiler is located in an enclosure.
There was already a carbon monoxide  (CO)  detector  in the cupboard. 
British Gas hadnt reported  corrosion.
The British Gas engineer used a detector which  either detected gases or it did not.
His report is extremely vague  considering he spent 75 mins there  allegedly.
He claimed he found products of combustion  but he didnt mention how or where. 
There is no traceability.
The second engineer gave the all-clear.
Mr D2 and Mr D1 bought a new detector in addition for £100.00 and put it where the 
second engineer recommended.  None of the detectors have  triggered  to date.
British Gas put undue pressure on his mother.  Mr D2 got her to cancel and saved her 
over £1,200.00 for the exact same boiler.
The compensation cheque has now expired so is worthless. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has sent us a work history  going  back to 2009. It says the boiler  dated  from 
2003.
When the policy was about to be renewed  in October 2018 the British Gas renewal letter 
said that some spare parts for the boiler  might not be available.
The policy terms said that the annual service was a safety check. So I find it more likely  than 
not that the engineer  attended on 20 December 2018 with suitable detection equipment. He 
reported that he had found  carbon dioxide  (CO2) at the rear of the boiler and he suspected 
the flue was rotten.
Ive noted that the engineer quickly involved  the salesman. And I accept that his 
photographs dont  show any corrosion.  
All this happened at a busy and cold time of year. And I dont doubt that Mr D1 and Mr D2 
felt under pressure  to accept the quotation for a new boiler. 
They managed to get a second opinion. And that reported no evidence  of fumes. I accept 
that the new CO detector detected nothing.  So I can see why Mr D2 complained that British 
Gas had acted  unfairly.
But Im satisfied that British Gas had detected CO2 consistent with a leak from the flue. I 
dont find that British Gas treated Mr D1 or Mr D2 unfairly by categorising the boiler  as 
immediately dangerous.
British Gas sent Mr D1 a cheque  for £125.00. If he hasnt  presented  it for payment then I 
expect British Gas to cancel it and issue a replacement. 
I havent found that British Gas broke the terms of the policy.  So I dont  find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  it to refund instalments for the period between  October  2018  and the 
cancellation in early 2019.
Ref: DRN55525243Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to do anything further in 
response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5552524