K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Equifax Limited (Equifax) has recorded another  persons details and 
the wrong linked  address on his credit  file and have failed to remove them.
background 
Mr D contacted Equifax  in 2016. He said hed never  lived at an address they had linked  him 
with and he had no association with a person hed been linked  to on his file. They agreed to 
remove the information from his file. But in May 2018 Mr D noticed  theyd  recorded  similar  
information again. 
He complained to Equifax and they told him theyd  need to see his passport, driving license 
and birth certificate before they could do anything.  Over the course  of the next couple of 
months Equifax  maintained their stance that theyd  need all of this information  despite Mr D 
explaining he only had his driving license.  But in early August 2018 they said the information  
wasnt necessary as theyd already provided a notice of dissociation in 2016. So they were 
able to remove any reference to the other  persons details but couldnt remove  a linked 
address. 
Mr D was unhappy with Equifaxs  response  so he referred his complaint  to this service  and 
our investigator provided her opinion. She explained that Equifax only recorded  the 
information that financial businesses told them to record.  And here she explained that a 
business Ill call L had reported the association  and linked address to Equifax. She 
explained that it was up to L to remove this information and she set up a complaint with 
them. 
Although neither Mr D nor Equifax had been able to supply the credit files for the relevant 
period she was satisfied  that Equifax had been asked to record  incorrect information and 
also that theyd  removed it when requested by L (or the company whod sold the account to 
L). So she didnt  think Equifax  had done anything wrong as they were purely recording the 
information that had been provided to them.
But she did think they were wrong to insist on Mr D providing personal information only to 
later explain  that wasnt  necessary. She noted  that Equifax  had subsequently  made an offer 
to Mr D to compensate him for this mistake and she thought theyd therefore taken sufficient 
action.
Overall, she didnt think Equifax needed to take any further action. But Mr D was dissatisfied 
with the investigators  view. He thought Equifaxs  actions had caused him significant distress  
and he asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN51840712Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Equifax report the information that financial institutions tell them to. Here its clear  that the 
inaccurate information was generated by L or the company who owned the debt before L. It 
also seems clear that when Equifax became aware  of that in 2016 they removed the 
information from Mr Ds credit  file and that the new reporting in 2018 wasnt  their error but 
was again the result of reporting  from the business  who sold the account to L.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to say theyd  done  anything wrong with regard to the reporting 
and any financial loss Mr D may have incurred as a result of these records impacting his 
credit rating was not of Equifaxs making.
But they were slow to realise that their previous letter of dissociation meant that they 
wouldnt need Mr Ds personal details. This meant  there was a delay before anything  
changed on Mr Ds file. The delay started  in June  2018 and I think its reasonable to suggest 
Equifax were  no longer delaying matters in August 2018. 
Ive not seen evidence that would lead me to believe that Mr D lost out financially during this 
delay. I note the information that he provided about  previous advantageous  interest rates but 
as that information was quite old (originating in 2014) and I have not been provided with 
historic credit reports, it would be unreasonable to suggest theres been evidence provided  
of any loss. I can see that Equifax offered Mr D £150 to compensate him for their error and I 
think, in the circumstances,  this was sufficient.
Overall, I dont  think Equifax need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5184071