K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr M says FICL mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr M owed on his store  card. The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mr M couldnt work  because 
he had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Mr M says he wasnt aware that he had the PPI and so 
believes it was added  without his consent.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mr M at the time of the sale and 
I can see that there is a section for the PPI. In this section it states you should only sign if you 
require Account Cover  the name given to PPI by FICL. Mr M has signed the section to 
confirm he wanted the cover and he has signed the application  form which  suggests it 
reflected what he wanted. As Mr M was making an application for additional  credit  I would 
have expected him to have read through the document before signing it and so I think  he 
would have been aware that he didnt have to take out this cover. 
Im also aware that the premiums for the cover  would usually be shown as separate entries 
on the store card statements. So if Mr M didnt know what  this additional payment was for, 
or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think he would have questioned  this with FICL at the time.  
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mr M 
chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse  it if he didnt want  it  even  if that is not his 
recollection now.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mr M. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for him. But FICL did need to make  sure it 
Ref: DRN51959282gave Mr M clear enough information about  the policy to enable him to decide for himself if he 
should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr M 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
he was already aware.
Mr M hasnt  been able to recall what benefits, if any, he may have received from his 
employer if he was unable  to work  due to accident  or sickness  but in any event,  this policy  
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer. It would also have  
provided cover if he had lost his job. As Mr M has told us he had no other means, such as 
savings, with which to meet  his repayments  if he wasnt  working I think  this policy  could have 
provided a useful benefit.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mr M has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5195928