K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms M bought the policy in 1996 during a telephone  call. 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint because:
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, a call recording or call transcript  arent  
available. So I dont  know  what  was discussed,  if anything, about the PPI.
Ms M has complained that she didnt ask for the insurance and it was added without 
her knowledge.  
But the PPI premiums would have appeared on Ms Ms store  card statements when 
she had an outstanding balance. So I think that its more  likely than not that Ms M 
would reasonably have questioned  much sooner than she did, why she was paying 
for PPI when she received her statements if it had indeed been added without her 
knowledge. 
But the evidence  is that PPI remained on the account for a number of years after the 
policy was added.
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that the PPI was presented as 
optional during the phone call and Ms M agreed  to take it out.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. 
Ref: DRN55034552But FICL did still have  to give Ms M good enough information so that she could  
decide if the policy was right for her and if she wanted to take it out. Its possible the 
information FICL gave  Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But Ms M doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. 
Ms M told us that she had a sick pay entitlement and also had some  savings.  
Our adjudicator asked  for some evidence of Ms Ms existing means but none has 
been provided. In any case, this policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Ms 
existing means, allowing  her the option of keeping her existing means for other living  
expenses that she may have had.
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it and I still think  that 
she could have found it useful if she was made unemployed or if she was unwell and 
unable to work. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ms comments,  but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5503455