K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  them payment  protection insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a further  advance  on 
their mortgage in 2003 in one of the banks branches. When  they applied  for a second 
further advance  in 2006 they also took out PPI. The cover gave them  accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs E 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs E say they werent aware PPI was optional. I cant know what  was discussed in 
the meetings but Ive thought carefully  about  Mr and Mrs Es comments and looked  at the 
paperwork from the sales. Mr and Mrs E completed and signed a separate PPI application 
form and direct debit mandate in 2003 and 2006.  I dont think  there  was anything on those 
forms that could reasonable have led them to believe PPI was mandatory. And their 
mortgage loan agreement in 2006 said You are not required to take out any insurance 
through C&G as a condition  of this mortgage. It made clear  only buildings insurance was 
mandatory. It then listed  PPI under the heading  Optional Insurance , saying you are not 
obliged to take this cover. It set out the cost separately.
So, overall, I think on both occasions  Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional and 
Mr and Mrs E chose  to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 2003  and 2006,  I think that it 
was. Mr and Mrs E told us they were  both entitled to six months full pay and six months  half 
pay if they were sick but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to their work benefits and for 
up to 12 months for each  successful claim. It also gave  up to 12 months redundancy cover.  
They were  borrowing quite large  sums over a long period,  secured on their home. And the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  So, overall,  I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for Mr and Mrs E if they were sick or lost their job(s). 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs E all the information they needed  before deciding  
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made  clear  in 2003 or 2006, but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont  know that the bank pointed  out 
the main things the policies didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs E dont appear to have been  
affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think  better  information  about the policy  
wouldve changed their mind about buying PPI.
Ref: DRN55450762Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs E some  of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs E paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs E have lost out because  of any problems with these sales.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5545076