K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains the car he financed using a hire purchase agreement with Bank  of Scotland  
Plc t/a Halifax was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In early November 2018, Mr T acquired  a used car under a hire purchase agreement with 
Halifax. Mr T says three days after acquiring  the car, he noticed the car made a banging 
noise when changing between first and second gear. This concerned  Mr T as he says the 
car shook  when this happened. Mr T says he also noticed a burning  smell when  in first gear 
and that a fault light had appeared in the car.
An inspection was carried  out on Mr Ts car shortly after this in November 2018.  The report 
acknowledges the noise experienced by Mr T and says this was as a result of the clutch 
pedal being released quicker than normal. According to Halifaxs notes, on 20 November 
2018, Mr T was advised to take the car to the manufacturer for the car to be considered  
under warranty for diagnostic repairs. But Mr T said he wanted to reject  the car instead. 
In December 2018, Mr T reported experiencing the same issues with the car. So, Mr T said 
he wanted to exercise  his 30 day right to reject the car. Mr T returned the car to the 
dealership on 6 December 2018.   Halifax say the dealership carried out an extensive road 
test and they werent able to find a fault  the inspector deemed the car to be satisfactory.
Mr T was insistent  that there were faults with the car. So, in January 2019,  Halifax  instructed 
an independent inspection of Mr Ts car. At the point of inspection, the mileage on the car 
was 7,552 miles. This report explained  that the inspector had taken the car on a test drive 
and that the performance of the car was normal.  The report also noted  that no burning smell 
was detected at the time and no fault codes were  found. So, Halifax issued their final 
response letter to Mr T explaining that there  was no evidence to show the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
Unhappy with this, Mr T arranged for an inspection to be carried out on the car in April 2019. 
The report  notes that the inspector was able to reproduce  the banging noise Mr T reported  
by releasing the clutch fast when changing the gear fast from first to second. 
In the same  month, Mr T received a recall letter from the car manufacturer.  The recall letter 
explained that the manufacturer  had identified an issue with the clutch of Mr Ts car make 
and model. The letter explained that there  could be issues with the clutch overheating which 
could be detected through smell. And in a small number of instances,  the possibility that the 
clutch pressure plate  may fracture - which could result in a thud or banging  noise in the car. 
Mr T says these  were exactly the same  issues he was experiencing with his car and so he 
provided a copy of this letter to Halifax.
Halifax say when Mr T provided them with a copy  of the recall  letter,  they reopened Mr Ts 
complaint and arranged for his car to be taken to a dealership for inspection.  In July 2019, 
the dealership  completed a short road test and an extended road test. They  also completed 
diagnostics on Mr Ts car but couldnt  find a fault. 
Mr T collected the car from the dealership shortly after and said that he still experienced the 
same issues. Mr T told us in September 2019 that he had traded the car in as he felt like he 
had to due to the stress and inconvenience  the issues were causing him. 
Ref: DRN54855462Our case handler looked into Mr Ts concerns. He said the inspection report provided by 
Halifax confirmed there were no issues with Mr Ts car. And that the report  provided by Mr T 
confirmed that the noise  could only be replicated  when the clutch was released fast between 
first and second gear. This report also confirmed no defect codes were found  when a test 
was run on Mr Ts car. Our case handler also said he wasnt able to hear the noise  Mr T 
referred to from the video  evidence he sent us. Therefore, he didnt think  the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mr T disagreed. He said that there  were  issues with the car and as a result of this, he traded 
the car in. Mr T also says that he was only able to drive the car for three weeks out of the 
nine months of owning it and that he had to rent other cars to remain mobile  during  the time 
he wasnt driving the car, which  cost him a lot of money. So the complaint has been  passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T but Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain my reasons  in more 
detail below.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer hire agreement   so we can consider  a 
complaint relating to it. Halifax is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, 
and responsible for a complaint about  their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.  
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So, it seems  likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.  
Halifax supplied Mr T with a car that was around  one year old and had travelled 6,249 miles 
when it was supplied.  And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had 
been supplied  new. 
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts  of the car might  
have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair 
and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.  
Mr T has given us a lot of information and I want to assure Mr T that I have considered 
everything he has told us when reaching  my decision. Its clear  Mr Ts main concern  with the 
quality of the car is the loud banging  noise when changing from first to second  gear as this 
caused the car to judder.  And he says the car was unsafe to drive because  of this. Mr T has 
provided us with video footage demonstrating  the banging noise which  Ive carefully  looked  
at. I think  the footage  seems to capture the sound that Mr T is concerned about fairly well 
Ref: DRN54855463and the bang can be heard at the point he changes from first to second gear. As far as I can 
see, this noise is only produced when Mr T goes to change from first to second  gear.
Ive then gone on to look at the inspection reports that were carried  out on the car. I can see 
the report from November  2018  confirms that the banging noise is replicated when changing 
gears quickly from first to second  gear.  And the January 2019 report  notes that the handling 
and performance for this type of model  was normal  it confirmed gear selection  was normal  
during the road test. And that no burning smell was detected at the time. The report 
concluded that the car was found to be in satisfactory condition and no safety issues were 
found. 
The inspection carried out in April 2019 confirms that the banging noise is reproduced  by 
fast clutch release between first and second  gear. And that the car was scanned for fault 
codes but none were  present. 
Following the recall letter, the car was inspected  again in July 2019. The report says the 
bang is audible  when changing  vigorously  from first to second  gear   but the report also 
says the noise cant be heard when changing gear in a normal manner. The report also 
noted that the noise is a characteristic of the car.
I can understand why this matter would be of concern  and worry to Mr T. However, the 
independent reports  we have suggest  that the banging noise only occurs  as a result  of the 
way Mr T changes  gear from first to second   they indicate that the noise is replicated as a 
result of changing gears in a quick or vigorous manner  which  causes the banging noise  and 
then in turn would cause the car to shake slightly. The reports  dont suggest  that the noise is 
a fault of the car. So, having considered  everything I cant  say with any certainty  that this is a 
fault - it seems  more  likely that the issue experienced  by Mr T was as a result  of his driving 
style.
I note Mr T says there  was a burning  smell in the car and that this was also identified  as a 
potential fault in the recall notice letter. Ive looked  carefully at the report of the inspection  
carried out on the car in January 2019  and it confirms no burning smell was detected  at the 
time. When Mr Ts car was returned to an independent garage  for inspection after the recall 
letter was sent out, I can see from the information  on file between  the garage  and Halifax 
that a full inspection was carried out on his car. This included a physical  check  of the engine  
and gearbox mountings for any faults. The report concluded that there wasnt  a fault with any 
element of the car. Whilst I dont  doubt  what Mr T has told us, I cant see the burning smell 
was detected as there is no mention that this was identified  when  the inspection  was carried 
out. Therefore,  I cant reasonably say there was a fault and that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality.
I appreciate Mr T strongly believes the car was faulty, however, looking at the evidence Im 
not persuaded there were  faults  with the car at the time Mr T acquired  it. I understand Mr T 
will be disappointed with this decision,  however, I have  to make a decision based on the 
information which has been put before me.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Ref: DRN54855464Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5485546