K820x#14complaint
Mr M says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to protect  his mortgage 
repayments in 2005. Mr M took out the borrowing and PPI at a meeting with HSBC. The 
policy paid a monthly benefit of £850  for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
Mr M mainly says PPI was added without  his knowledge and that it wasnt something  he 
needed
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
In February 2005,  shortly  after the planning  review meeting when his financial circumstances 
were discussed, HSBC wrote to Mr M to confirm its recommendations. It said it had 
recommended Mortgage  Repayment Protector  (this is what HSBC  called its PPI) to provide 
a monthly benefit  to help cover Mr Ms regular payments  in the event of unemployment,  
accident or sickness. 
A personal  financial planning  review  it prepared for him also noted that they had discussed 
Mr Ms need to protect his mortgage  by applying  for the Mortgage Repayment  Protector  
scheme. 
The electronic record of his mortgage application indicates that Mr M also applied for PPI 
when he was applying  for the mortgage.  And looking at the mortgage offer HSBC sent him, 
this clearly shows the Mortgage Repayment  Protection under the heading  (in bold print)  
Optional Insurance. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its fair to say that HSBC made Mr M aware the PPI 
was optional and it was added to his account  when he chose to take it. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr M and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr M has told us about his financial situation,  
including comments and information sent to our adjudicator following the view letter.
Ref: DRN57637962The policy wouldve paid out a benefit  for up to 12 months in the event of a successful 
accident or sickness claim  and repeat  claims  were possible providing Mr M with long term 
cover for his mortgage.  The policy wouldve  paid out in addition  to any work benefits Mr M 
mightve got. So I think the policy  couldve provided a useful benefit  at a difficult time  
especially if Mr M mightve had extra costs as a result of being  off work as a result of illness  
or disability.  
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr M lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr M mentioned  having death in service benefits  but PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different  circumstances. So this doesnt  
affect my decision. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mr M if he was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  him some  additional  financial  security  in those circumstances.
I think it unlikely that selling his car wouldve been enough to pay the mortgage  for very long 
 bearing in mind  it was a financial commitment he was expecting  to have to pay for many 
years. 
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Mr M also arranged a policy that offered him life and critical  illness cover and accident  and 
sickness insurance. Ive read the policy information  Mr M sent us. The PPI he took out 
specifically to protect his mortgage monthly  repayments provided a different sort of cover 
and paid out in different circumstances. And although his other  policy offered some cover  in 
the event of sickness, accident or disability, this didnt start to pay out until after 26 weeks 
and it essentially replaced his lost pay from work with a reduced  annual income. So I can 
see why someone with this cover  might still want the protection offered by mortgage PPI. 
Overall, I cant reasonably say that Mr M didnt need PPI - I can see why hed have  wanted  it 
and I think this insurance couldve been  of value to him if hed needed to make a claim.
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve limited the policys  benefit 
to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned, I dont think  that knowing more  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ms decision to take the policy out. 
Mr M wouldve been able to see the cost of the policy set out in the mortgage  offer  and it 
was half price for the first 12 months. So it looks like he was happy  to pay for the PPI  and 
he couldve  cancelled the policy without further cost at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he decided he didnt want to pay for it any longer.  
Taking all his circumstances into account and the benefits that the PPI offered him, even if 
there were failings in the way HSBC sold him PPI, I dont think  that better information 
wouldve put Mr M off having it. 
So I dont  find hes lost out as a result  of anything that HSBC  mightve done wrong. And 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.  
Ref: DRN57637963my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5763796