K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (HRG) defaulted his account 
and sold it to a debt collection agency  I will call M.
background
Mr N has a store card account  with HRG which fell into arrears.  He had to leave the country 
due to a family matter  in March 2018 and returned  in September  2018. While  away he made  
several payments,  but these were  less than was due. On his return he called HRG to 
discuss a payment he had made on 24 September he discovered his debt had been  sold to 
M. 
HRG says that a statement of account which had been unpaid since 1 April and was in 
arrears by £105.71 was sent to Mr N on 26 May.  The account  remained in arrears and a 
default notice  was issued on 6 June  and the default was recorded  on 22 July. The debt was 
then assigned to M. Mr N had made several  small payments  during  this period, but below 
the minimum due. It says Mr N didnt tell it he had gone abroad  due to a family  emergency, 
but it noted he had online access to his account.
Mr N complained to HRG that it hadnt  told him it had assigned  his debt and he hadnt  been 
aware the account had been defaulted.  He asked that the debt be returned and his credit  
amended. It rejected his complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld.
She noted Mr N had gone abroad unexpectedly but he had been  able to make payments 
online during this period. However,  he failed  to make the minimum payments required. As a 
result the account  had fallen into arrears. HRG had sent him a number of communications  
seeking the required payment, but this hadnt  materialised.  
She explained that the Information Commissioner's Office  (ICO)  says when a consumer is at 
least three months behind  with their payments then a default  may be registered.  Mr N was 
three months behind  when HRG issued a default notice. She didnt believe it was unfair that 
HRG took this step.
The default  notice  said further action could  be taken if no payment was received. It 
explained, We will terminate your agreement and demand full repayment of the outstanding 
balance. Your account will be referred to a Debt Collection  Agency,  with instructions to 
consider legal proceedings against you." It suggested he contact the business so it could 
resolve the matter,  but he didnt do so. Matters  took their course and the debt was assigned 
to M. It was responsible  for notifying  Mr N that it now owned  the debt. 
Mr N didnt agree and said he had made some payments during the period and after he had 
returned. He queried  why HRG had taken money  after it had assigned  the debt. The 
investigator said that HRG hadnt  taken the payment,  but rather  Mr N had made it by card. 
The payment was made after the default had been  issued and the debt assigned. 
Furthermore even with the late payment  Mr N remained in arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56713912I can appreciate that Mr N failed to notify  HRG when he went away unexpectedly, but I can 
see that he was able to make  token payments online while  away and I have seen  no reason 
why he was prevented  from letting  the business know of his personal situation. It was open 
to him to have used  the online system to make contact. 
It was unaware of his situation and noted  he was failing  to make proper payments and was 
ignoring letters. Mr N has suggested  it could have emailed him, but it wasnt obliged to do so 
and it didnt know the letters were not being seen by him. HRG followed its normal  
procedures in making contact with Mr N and seeking  payment from him. When full payment 
wasnt received it notified him the account would be defaulted.
When it got no response to the default  notice  it defaulted the account. This is what  I would 
expect it to do. That default is noted on Mr Ns credit reference  file and it reflect the status of 
his account, as it should. I dont consider there  are grounds that would allow me to direct  
HRG to remove that notice. It is an accurate reflection of the account. 
It is down to M to let Mr N know that it had taken over the debt and HRG wasnt obliged to 
tell him. I appreciate  Mr N made an increased payment after his return, but I am afraid that 
was too late. The default has already  been  recorded and I cannot conclude that HRG has 
done anything  wrong. It followed  the correct processes and I fear that this situation has 
arisen because  Mr N didnt talk to HRG. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 
2 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5671391