K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Elderbridge Limited  has unfairly  applied legal charges to his loan 
account. These fees relate to legal action taken by Mr Fs former lender in late 2014  and 
early 2015.
background
Elderbridge took over the administration of Mr Fs loan in 2016.
It appears that in 2014/15 Mr Fs former lender  took legal action in relation to his loan.  In 
November 2018  Elderbridge added  the cost of this legal action, £639 to Mr Fs loan account.
Mr F complained to Elderbridge. It did not uphold his complaint it said:
Having examined  your records, we can see section nine of the Terms and Conditions 
provided with the Credit  Agreement states, You shall indemnify us against all reasonable 
legal and other costs  and expenses incurred by us in attempting  to obtain repayment of the 
unpaid monthly  payment  or of such  balance and interest. A copy  of the Credit Agreement is 
enclosed for reference.
We can confirm the agreement is not regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  
Mortgage Conduct of Business Regulations. As a result, the previous administrators of your 
loan, FIRSTPLUS had not been  obliged to inform you of the level of Legal Fees when they 
had been incurred.
We have contact the Solicitors and can confirm the £639.00 applied  to your account  is 
correct. The fees applied relate  to the legal action  taken  by [name of previous lender] to 
recover outstanding  amounts in 2015.
Mr F was not satisfied with Elderbridges  response  and referred  his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said he didnt think Mr Fs complaint  should be upheld. He said that he was 
satisfied that Elderbridge  was permitted to add the legal costs  Mr Fs former lender had 
incurred in connection with his loan.  
He noted that once  Elderbridge were  aware of the fees it added them to Mr Fs account  and 
notified him. Elderbridge said it would not charge  Mr F interest  on the legal fees.  Our 
adjudicator said he felt this was fair given the circumstances.
Mr F wasnt satisfied  with our adjudicators response.  He said, in summary that he felt 
Elderbridge should  be instructed to refer the matter back to [name of previous lender] with 
a view to cancelling  these  charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Fs position.  But in order to uphold  this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that Elderbridge  had done  something  wrong, or acted incorrectly. Having carefully 
considered the information available I cant reasonably say that it has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN51806812It has applied the legal  fees in line with the information provided by Mr Fs former lender. It 
also contacted  the solicitors  who carried  out the legal  work to confirm  that the amount (£639) 
it had added to Mr Fs account  was correct.
I appreciate that Mr F would like me to order Elderbridge  to take up the issue  of the legal 
fees with his previous lender. But even if I were to ask Elderbridge to take up this matter on 
Mr Fs behalf  with his former lender it wouldnt  have  any authority to require it to look into the 
matter. However, if Mr F raises the matter with his former lender the lender will be required 
to investigate and respond to his complaint.
If Mr F remains unhappy with the outcome he will, of course,  be free to refer the matter to 
this service.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr F was hoping for. But I hope he will 
appreciate that if he feels the legal fees should not have  been applied to his account he will 
need to take this up with his former lender  and give it the opportunity to put matters right 
before this service  can get involved.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I cannot uphold Mr Fs complaint 
against Elderbridge Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5180681