K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited didnt update  the Motor
Insurance Database  (MID)  with his change of car details. Mr K was stopped by police for
driving without insurance and his car was seized.
background
Mr K bought a car insurance policy  with the insurer, Advantage. In September 2018 he
changed his car. Advantage  failed  to update the MID which  the police rely on to check if a
vehicle is insured.
In November 2018 Mr K was stopped  by police and his car was seized. Mr K said it took him
a week to find the funds to pay to release his car from storage. He complained  to Advantage.
Advantage upheld Mr Ks complaint. It reimbursed him for the impound release  fee and paid
him £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused. It later agreed  to
increase this by £100 to £200.
Mr K asked us to look at his complaint  as he didnt feel the compensation Advantage paid
was enough.
Our investigator initially thought Advantage should pay a total of £500 compensation in
addition to the reimbursement of the impound fees.  He said that Mr K had been
inconvenienced by not being able to use his car for work and travel to university for a week.
And because it took about three  weeks for the MID to show  that Mr Ks was insured
Advantage had advised  Mr K to keep  a copy of his insurance certificate in the car. Mr K
accepted he received this advice. But hed been very reluctant to use his car  particularly
outside of business hours  and to drive  any distance - as he was worried the same  thing
would happen  again.
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said Mr K requested  cover for social use only.  So Mr K hadnt
bought insurance  to use his car for commuting. It therefore didnt  agree  that it should
compensate Mr K for something he wasnt insured for.
Our investigator reconsidered and accepted what Advantage said. He recommended
Advantage pay a lower  compensation award of £400.
Advantage said it believed £400 was still too high.  Mr K accepted the investigators  second
recommendation.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 December 2019. I thought  a fairer level of 
compensation Advantage should pay was £300.  
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
decision, my final decision  remains along  the same lines.
Ref: DRN52851792Theres no dispute about the circumstances  that led to Mr Ks complaint. The remaining
issue for me to decide is whether Advantage has done enough to put things right.
When Mr K told us he didnt think the compensation Advantage had paid him was enough,
he explained  why. He said he wasnt able to use his car to travel  to and from university and
to work.
But Mr Ks policy with Advantage doesnt  provide cover for Mr K to use his car for these
purposes. So I dont think  its fair to ask Advantage to compensate  Mr K for any loss of use
here.
I think the impact of being stopped  by the police and having his car seized  has undoubtedly
been upsetting for Mr K. If Advantage had updated  the MID, this wouldnt have happened.
Mr K then had to find funds of over £200  to pay the impound release fee. He said this wasnt
easy and took time as he said he is a student.
It takes up to a week for the MID to show a change. I can understand why Mr K says he was
reluctant to use his car while the MID didnt show it as insured. He called and checked with
Advantage on a couple of occasions after he collected his car  as he was also routinely
checking the MID. But I also think Advantages advice was reasonable - for Mr K to keep a
copy of his insurance certificate in the car to show he was insured.
So  taking  into account the upset  caused  by being stopped by police, the length of time
Mr K was inconvenienced for, and the level of cover he had to use his car for, I think a fair
and reasonable compensation award  is £300. Mr K had to find funds he shouldnt have
otherwise needed to find to pay to have his car released. He then spent time contacting
Advantage, the MID and arranging to collect his car. And I think  the upset of being  stopped
by the police was significant  and entirely  avoidable.
Ref: DRN52851793my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the compensation award  it pays to a total of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr K.
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr K
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of
8% a year.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax
from that interest, it should  tell Mr K how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr K a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5285179