K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt tell them that a repayment holiday 
they took on their loan would be recorded on their credit files. They also complain  that HSBC 
Bank sent them letters saying they were in default with their loan when this wasnt  the case. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs F had a loan with HSBC. Unfortunately, Mr F had a period of time out of work, 
which meant they were  struggling financially. Mrs F spoke to HSBC  about how this would 
affect their loan repayments and she was advised  to call their specialist team to discuss  this 
further.
She did so and HSBC  advised her that she could stop her loan repayments for a period of 
time. Mrs F agreed  to this and HSBC also agreed  to stop charges on their current account 
for a period  of time. After 60 days, Mrs F spoke to HSBC and re-started  the payments.
But after that, HSBC  sent several  letters saying that they were behind on their payments and 
demanding the outstanding amount. When Mrs F called it was confirmed that these were 
sent by mistake.  However, HSBC sent similar letters on two separate occasions after that by 
mistake.   
HSBC recorded  the loan as being in arrears  during this period too on their credit files, which 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  think was fair as it had been  arranged between Mrs F and HSBC that 
they would  take a break from paying  it. Mr and Mrs F said that if theyd known that this would 
happen, then they would  have tried to get the money from somewhere else.
HSBC apologised  for the letters and paid £50 in compensation for this. But they said that Mr 
and Mrs F were  aware  of the potential impact  of having an agreed  break  on their loan 
repayments, so they wouldnt  remove the credit markers. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that HSBC had done  anything wrong by adding the credit 
markers as she was satisfied Mrs F had been warned about this when she called HSBC. 
She didnt  think that the £50 compensation was enough to reflect the inconvenience  caused 
in sending the letters and said HSBC should double that to £100. HSBC agreed
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  and thought that HSBC should remove  the markers.
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether HSBC acted fairly  in not removing  what  it recorded on 
Mr and Mrs Fs credit files. I believe that it has and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the telephone call and its clear that Mrs F rang up to say that she was having 
financial difficulties. HSBC treated her positively and sympathetically,  as they are supposed 
to do. They  did explain to her that she could have a loan repayment holiday  where  the 
payments and interest would stop,  but that this would leave her account  in arrears. 
Ref: DRN56260762HSBC have an obligation to record accurate information about the conduct of an account. So 
where Mr and Mrs F put a hold on their repayments and arrears accrued  its a factual 
record of what has happened. I dont think they were wrong to do this. And although  I can 
understand that Mr and Mrs F are frustrated by this, having listened to the phone  call I think  
HSBC gave enough information  about  what would happen if they stopped  making the 
payments here.
They explained that while Mr and Mrs F werent  expected to make  a payment to the loan, 
any missed payments would be classed  as arrears. So I think HSBC did explain what  would 
happen as a result of entering into the plan. For this reason, I dont think  that they have 
acted unfairly here. I know that Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed by this, but I wont be 
telling HSBC to change the way theyre reporting on the credit  files and remove any data. 
  
But, I agree  that HSBC  should pay a further  £50 compensation in light of the fact that they 
sent several letters which caused distress. I think this is a fair amount, which  reflects  the 
impact these letters had, when they didnt  expect to receive them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part to the extent that HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
should pay Mr and Mrs F £100 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused, 
less the £50 theyve already paid. But I dont require  them to do anymore.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019. 
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5626076