K820x#14copy extract  of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs J complains that MBNA Limited  didnt issue her with Notices of Sums  in Arrears  (NOSIAs)  in 
2014 and it hasnt provided copies of the notices sent or provided proof they were sent.
To settle  matters shed like the default  fees and interest incurred since August 2014 
refunded.
background
Mrs J complained to MBNA in June 2018 to say she hadnt  received NOSIAs when  her account  
fell into arrears. MBNA confirmed in July 2018  that NOSIAs were  sent to her in August 2014,  
October 2014 and December  2014.
In August 2018 Mrs J asked MBNA to provide  copies of the NOSIAs including proof they were 
sent to her address. MBNA  explained that it doesnt send NOSIAs by recorded delivery so it 
wasnt able to provide proof they were sent to her address. MBNA also explained its not obliged  
to provide copies of the NOSIAs as long as it can evidence they were sent on its systems.
Mrs J is unhappy with MBNAs response so she complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt 
think MBNA had treated  Mrs J unfairly. The adjudicator had seen evidence from MBNAs systems 
that itd sent three NOSIA s to Mrs J when required.
The adjudicator could see MBNA waived all charges on Mrs Js account from the beginning of September 
2014 - after Mrs J made MBNA aware of her financial difficulties in September 2014. The adjudicator 
thought MBNA would only need to refund  charges for August 2014 if itd made  an error. But because 
he was satisfied MBNA had sent the NOSIAs when  required, he had no grounds to ask MBNA to 
refund further  charges.
Mrs J doesnt  agree with the adjudicators view.  She says she never received the NOSIAs so she 
shouldnt be charged interest  and default fees.  And MBNA hasnt provided  proof of delivery of the 
NOSIAs either. She thinks MBNA made an error with her NOSIAs because MBNA admitted  itd made  
errors in issuing some  customers  NOSIAs.
In response, the adjudicator appreciated it was frustrating that MBNA couldnt  provide her with the 
exact copies of the NOSIAs  itd sent. But he was satisfied that MBNAs systems  show they were  
sent. And as the interest on her account was applied in line with the terms and conditions of her 
account he had no grounds to tell MBNA to refund them.
Mrs J remains unhappy with the adjudicators  response. In summary she refers  to a letter sent by 
MBNA in September 2018  in which  it admitted  to failing to issue NOSIAs  to various  customers. 
Shes now received  a letter from MBNA in January  2019 enclosing a refund for £341.23. She says 
this letter shows MBNAs systems  are at fault and that interest and charges  were wrongly applied. 
So in light of this letter  she says the adjudicator was wrong to say that interest on your account 
was applied in line with the terms and conditions .
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid I have no better news for Mrs J and I 
dont intend to uphold her complaint. So Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN53045392I realise it must be frustrating for Mrs J that MBNA hasnt provided copies of the NOSIAs it sent. But 
MBNAs systems show  it sent three NOSIAs to Mrs J when required. So I think its more  likely  than 
not that the NOSIAs were sent.
Mrs J says she shouldnt be charged  interest and default fees from August 2014  because  she 
didnt receive NOSIAs as required. But as Ive already  explained Im of the opinion that the NOSIAs 
were sent as required.
However, from the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Mrs J hasnt been  charged interest and 
charges by MBNA from late July 2014 anyway  but for reasons unrelated to her complaint  about not 
receiving NOSIAs.
I can see that MBNA waived all charges on Mrs Js account from 1 September  2014  after shed 
told MBNA of her financial difficulties at that time.  And since the date of the adjudicators  view 
MBNA has also refunded historic interest and default fees on Mrs Js account  from late July 2014 - 
as well as its waiver of fees from the beginning  of September 2014. So the refunds made by MBNA 
mean Mrs J hasnt been charged interest or charges on her account since late July 2014.
Mrs J showed us a letter sent to her by MBNA in January 2019.  In this letter MBNA sent a cheque  
for £341.23 to refund historic  interest and default fees.  I asked MBNA for further information  about  
this refund. MBNA explained that itd completed a review of those  customers accounts that were  
identified as possibly  being vulnerable. In Mrs Js case she informed  MBNA in late July 2014 
about her health issues so its also refunded all charges  and interest shown on her August  2014 
statement, totalling £341.23.
Mrs J has also drawn to my attention  a letter sent to her by MBNA in September 2018.  In this 
letter MBNA accepts it found an error in its processes for sending NOSIAs. I can understand why 
this might cause Mrs J to doubt  the reliability of MBNAs  systems  and to think her account  had 
also been affected. But the letter  reassured  her that MBNA had completed an individual 
investigationand confirmed that the correct NOSIAs were sent to you during your period of 
arrears.  I dont  have any reason to doubt this was the case.
Ive also looked at the letter sent by MBNA to Mrs J in September 2014.  Again, MBNA admits that 
due to an error it charged her the wrong fee so it made a refund of £13.23.  But this, on its own,  
doesnt mean  MBNA made other errors affecting  her account.
But it follows  from what Ive said above that MBNA has refunded Mrs Js charges and interest 
since late July 2014 so I wont be asking  it to do anything further.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments received by 27 March 2019 but unless anything changes my 
mind, for the reasons given  I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5304539