K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that theyre being chased for the debt that was left when their 
property was sold in possession in 2010 by Lloyds Bank Plc (formally C&G).
background
In August  2007  Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Lloyds. They got into financial 
difficulties, and in February 2010 Lloyds formally took possession of the property (albeit 
Mr and Mrs A handed the keys back before  then). It was sold in May 2010 and there was a 
shortfall of around  £90,000.
After receiving a letter  about the debt in 2018  Mr and Mrs A complained that theyd only just 
been contacted so long after the property had been  sold. They said Lloyds was time-barred 
from chasing the debt as it had left matters too long. They also said the property had been 
sold for less than it was worth.
Our investigator considered whether the complaint had been brought to us in time and didnt 
think part of it had. She said Mr and Mrs A had left it too long to complain about the sale 
price of the property, but that we could consider their complaint  about being contacted in 
2018 about the debt.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed and so the matter was passed to me.  
In a decision in October  2019 I set out details of what we can and cant  look at. I said the 
only issue we could  consider was Mr and Mrs As complaint about the recent contact from 
the third party  to chase  repayment of the shortfall debt, as the complaint about the sale price 
of the property had been  brought  too late under our rules.
As our investigator had already given her opinion I asked both sides to let me have  any final 
submissions within two weeks.  Neither party said anything else, and now the case  has come 
back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs As frustration, but customers do have  responsibilities. Mr and Mrs A 
didnt keep in touch with Lloyds. They knew they owed it money and a lack of contact 
doesnt mean the debt disappeared. Lloyds has provided us with information from tracing 
companies and letters  that were  sent to different addresses theyd traced Mr and Mrs A to. If 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  receive any of those  letters thats not Lloydss fault.  Mr and Mrs A, 
knowing they owed  this money, should have kept Lloyds  notified of their whereabouts. That 
way, Lloyds could  have kept in contact and there would  have  been  no confusion  on 
Mr and Mrs As part about  whether or not they still owed the money.
In any event I can see Mrs A acknowledged the debt in 2013; she requested  a statement of 
facts as to what happened once the keys were  handed back, and a statement of costs,  as 
she was looking into whether the property  was undersold for a quick sale.  So its clear  at that 
time that she knew there was a residual debt remaining after the sale of the property. I can 
also see she said she may consider offering £15,000 in full and final settlement although she 
wasnt willing to complete an income  and expenditure  form, but the offer couldnt be 
accepted without the form. Whilst these were internal emails discussing contact with Mrs A  
Ref: DRN53442922rather than emails from Mrs A herself  Ive no reason to doubt their content. Mr and Mrs A 
acknowledge that Mrs A was in contact at that time to query  the sale price, so if that part of 
the contact is correct I can see no reason why the note about a potential  £15,000  offer in a 
full and final settlement  would  be incorrect.
I appreciate that hearing about the shortfall debt again came  as a shock  to Mr and Mrs A, 
but Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong in chasing  for repayment. I would suggest that 
Mr and Mrs A speak  to someone qualified  to give them free debt advice about this - such as 
Shelter, StepChange or Citizens Advice.  We can provide Mr and Mrs A with contact details 
for those  agencies, if theyd like us to do so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion 
about it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5344292