K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the actions of Complete Cover Group  Ltd (CCG) after his insurer 
said hed provided  incorrect information  about  his no claims discount (NCD)  when buying  his 
policy.
background
Mr L bought a policy through a broker who Ill refer to as A. When  A cancelled  that policy, 
they told Mr L he needed to declare the cancellation  to other insurers.  Mr L bought a new 
policy in May 2018, through CCG, with an insurer Ill call B. When buying the policy he told 
CCG he had eight  years NCD and that hed has a previous policy cancelled.
After Mr L complained to A it said it had given him the wrong  information  and told him he
didnt have to declare  the cancellation. A said it would compensate Mr L for any additional
amount hed paid to CCG for his new policy. CCG said although hed told it about a
cancellation when  he bought the policy, it hadnt  recorded him as having a cancelled policy
when placing the insurance with B. So as far as CCG was concerned Mr L hadnt paid any
extra for declaring that his previous policy had been cancelled.
When Mr L provided his NCD document to CCG it said it only showed him having  three  
years NCD. As a result of him only appearing to have  three  years  NCD, B charged him an 
additional premium.  CCG also added its own fees and commission on to this amount. Mr L 
complained about the fact the cost of his policy had increased. 
Mr L complained to us. He said hed ended up being  charged  much more than hed been 
originally quoted. He said CCG should  have contacted his previous insurer  to
get a copy of his NCD. He also told us he was unhappy hed had to provide a copy  of his
driving licence  when buying the policy. And he said hed written to CCG to find out what  was
going on but hadnt received a reply. Mr L asked for clarification of the amount he was being
charged.
CCG said the insurer had charged an additional premium  because Mr L only had three
years NCD rather  than eight. While  we were looking into things Mr L provided a letter  dated
2 February 2019  from his previous insurer that said he had eight years NCD. Our 
investigator provided CCG with this letter  and B agreed to re-rate  Mr Ls policy  and reduce 
the premium.
As the date on the letter showing the updated NCD wasnt the same  as when Mr L bought
his policy  through  CCG, we contacted  his previous  insurer  to ask for clarification about the
amount of NCD he had when  the policy cancelled. That insurer said it had made a mistake in
saying Mr L had eight  years NCD and it should have said three  years.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 August 2019. In that decision I said:
Mr Ls made a number of detailed  points. Ive considered them  all but am going  to focus on
what I see as the central issues  of this complaint.
additional premium  charged due to change of NCD
Mr L has raised a number of concerns about the increase in premium  following the change in
NCD. However, in this decision I can only consider what CCG  and not any other  business  -
Ref: DRN51921262might, or might not, have  done wrong.  That means I cant comment  on the additional
premium Mr L was charged by the insurer. Mr Ls told us he doesnt want  to complain about
his insurer but if he wants us to look into the additional premium it will need to be dealt with
separately against B. I appreciate  Mr L would like me to look into Bs actions in this
complaint because he bought the policy through CCG, but I cant do that as Bs a separate
business that was responsible for increasing  the premium.
increase in premium  due to declaring  a cancellation
Mr L has also complained  about having to declare a cancellation after being  given incorrect
information from his previous  broker. Thats  being dealt with separately  and Im not going to
comment on that brokers actions and whether it should compensate him in this decision. Im
only going to comment on whether  CCG needs  to provide any further information in relation
to this. Ive seen the statement of fact from B that says Mr L didnt have a policy  cancelled.
So, Im satisfied CCG provided the correct information to A that B didnt charge him any 
extra due to having had a policy cancelled. Thats not to say Mr L didnt have to pay more as 
the amount of insurers who would offer cover were reduced  but thats  not something I can 
hold CCG responsible for.
Mr L also asked how CCG knew hed had a policy cancelled  and whether  its contained  on
any database. Mr L would need  to check with his previous insurer  as to whether the
cancellation is recorded anywhere.  However, Ive listened to the call where Mr L bought  his
policy and I think its most  likely  CCG  knew  about his cancellation because  he told it.
NCD
When he bought  the policy Mr L told CCG he had eight years NCD. However I can see the
information he provided from his previous insurer said he had three years NCD as of
March 2018. I appreciate  Mr L also provided a copy of the schedule from the insurer hed
been with before his previous one and that showed his premium  was based on seven years
NCD in May 2016.  He also provided an email from the same insurer  that said he had seven
years NCD when the policy was cancelled in June 2017. However this doesnt necessarily
mean he would have had eight years  in May 2018 when he bought his new policy  through
CCG. So I dont think CCG did anything wrong  in not accepting he had eight years  NCD.
Mr L asked CCG to contact his previous insurer as he said theyd  be able to confirm  he had
eight years. I do think it would have  been  helpful for CCG to have done this as it would have
helped to clarify his level of NCD. While  we were  looking into things Mr L provided a
document showing he had eight years  NCD. I understand B has agreed to amend his
premium on the basis of that document. However  weve since been  informed by his previous
insurer that they made a mistake and Mr L has three years  NCD and not eight. So even if
CCG had contacted his previous insurer its likely B would still have made  its decision to
charge him an additional premium.
premium increase added  to his finance agreement
In this decision I cant consider whether B should have charged Mr L an additional  premium,
I can only consider CCGs actions in adding it to his finance agreement.  As Mr L had agreed
to pay his premium through a finance  agreement,  I think it was reasonable for CCG to
attempt to collect the additional  premium  in this way.
amount charged  by CCG
Ref: DRN51921263Mr L has queried the amount hes been  charged  by CCG. I can see the original premium
was £1,964 and was made up of the premium paid to B, CCGs commission and admin
charges and an excess cover premium.  He paid a deposit of £392.88 which  left £1,571.52
which he agreed to pay on finance. After adding  the interest of £369.31 charged by the
finance provider  this totalled £1,940.84 to be paid through a finance agreement.  This means
the total Mr L was originally due to pay was £2,333.72.
I cant comment on the amount charged  by B, the finance provider or the excess cover
provider. But Ive listened to the sales call and heard  Mr L agree to buy the excess cover. I
also heard  the advisor tell Mr L the amount of interest hed be charged.
B charged  Mr L an additional  premium of £575.06. This meant CCG added an additional
£136.26 in commission  and admin  fees. In this decision  I can only consider the charges
applied by CCG. As Mr L told us he didnt  want  to complain about B I havent  looked into
whether the increased premium was fair. However  as B increased the premium,  I think it was
reasonable for CCG to add the commission it would have charged. In any event CCG has
agreed to refund this commission since Mr Ls policy has been re-rated.
CCG charged Mr L an additional £50 administration fee which  it hasnt agreed to refund.
This is set out in the terms and conditions  and I think its fair for CCG to charge a reasonable
amount for the administrative task of amending his policy. So Im not going  to ask CCG to
refund this.
failure to provide information
Mr L wrote  to CCG in June 2018 to ask for clarification of what he was paying. CCG said it
didnt action this letter as it had been sent to the wrong address. However I can see he wrote
to CCG at its registered address. If this wasnt the address of the correct department I think
CCG should have  arranged for the letter to be passed to the correct  department.
As Mr L didnt get a response from CCG until October 2018 I agree this caused  a delay and
caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I think  £100 is a fair and reasonable
amount for CCG to pay Mr L to compensate him for this.
CCG asked Mr L to provide a copy of his driving  licence
I dont find it unusual that CCG asked Mr L to provide a copy  of his driving licence when
buying his policy.  And I think  its reasonable it would  want to carry out checks. I also heard
during the sales  call that CCG told Mr L it would need a copy of his licence  and he agreed to
that. So I dont  think CCG did anything wrong  in asking  for a copy of the licence.
I appreciate this has been an upsetting  time for Mr L and made more distressing by the
number of businesses  involved  in whats happened. But I dont think whats happened is
down to CCG  other than the delay in replying to his letter.
CCG accepted  my provisional  findings, but Mr L didnt  agree. He provided a detailed 
response which set out his reasons  for why he remained  unhappy. 
Ref: DRN51921264my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls provided a detailed response to my provisional findings. I can assure him Ive read all 
the information he and CCG have provided.  Id also like to reassure him that in coming to 
both my provisional and final decisions Ive carried out an independent  review  of all the 
information and not only considered the investigators view. However as with my provisional 
findings Im not going to address every point Mr Ls made and will instead concentrate on 
what I consider to be the central issues of this complaint. I also dont intend to reference  
every phone call or document and have summarised the information I find most relevant. 
Id also like to clarify  that in this decision I have only considered what CCG might or might 
not have done wrong,  although  Ive referred  to other businesses and Mr Ls other complaint 
in the background, where I think its relevant to whats happened  here.  Mr Ls other 
complaint about  his previous broker is being  dealt with separately. I understand there were 
also other businesses  involved  in Mr L ultimately buying his policy through  CCG, but in this 
decision I can only consider the actions of CCG. 
Mr L has asked me to outline the basis and areas of law that my decision is anchored 
against. Were an informal dispute resolution service set up as a free alternative  to the 
courts. While I take account  of the law, as well as industry guidelines and good  practice,  I 
also make  my decision on the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And thats what Ive done  in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
cost of the insurance
The credit agreement shows that Mr L was charged £1,964.40 for his policy, before any fees 
for credit were  added. Mr L said he was quoted around £1,500  online but this increased. I 
havent seen a copy of the online quote,  but I dont think I need to. I say that because  Ive 
listened to the call where Mr L bought  his policy  and CCGs advisor  confirmed the online 
quote was £2,094.49 and Mr L didnt disagree with that. 
I appreciate Mr L doesnt remember  agreeing to buy excess protection, but Ive listened to 
the call and Im satisfied he did. The advisor said it would cost just over £9 a month to add 
this to his policy.  He asked Mr L if hed like to add it and he said he would and that he always 
did this. It might be that Mr L confused this cover with protecting  his NCD, but I dont think 
thats CCGs fault, as it explained the cover  clearly. It also gave  Mr L the total cost of the 
cover and told him that it was optional to buy it. 
In that same  call CCG told Mr L that the total payable amount was £2,333.72 with the 
charges for credit. So, I think it was clear how much he needed to pay. CCG wrote to Mr L 
shortly after he bought his policy setting out the base cost of the policy  as £1,565.43, plus its 
additional service  charge  of £290.02  and the excess cover  of £108.95. It told Mr L hed 
already paid a deposit which meant  the total cost was £2,333.72. So, I think  CCG made the 
total cost of the policy clear to him in this letter, as it was on the phone. 
CCGs fees (including commission) for setting up the policy  were  £290.02.  I can see that 
CCGs terms of business  say it charges a £60 set up fee, plus 17% commission.  The terms 
of business were available to Mr L before he bought his policy and I think  its fair for CCG to 
make a charge  to cover the work  it does in finding and setting up the policy  and make  a 
Ref: DRN51921265additional amount on top of this as profit.  After  all, they are a business that exits to make a 
profit as opposed  to one that just wants to cover their costs. 
After submitting his NCD Mr Ls insurer  B - then charged him an additional  £575.06 as it 
thought he only had three years NCD and not eight. This additional premium was charged 
by his insurer and not CCG so I cant  consider it in this decision. I appreciate  Mr L thinks B is 
a reinsurer and not his insurer, but his policy  document  gives the details of his insurer  and it 
was also confirmed in a letter to Mr L from CCG that it is B. So, Im satisfied CCG isnt his 
insurer and the additional premium was charged by B. That means in this decision I can only 
consider any additional  charges added by CCG.
CCG added  its own charges of £136.26 for admin and commission  and the finance company 
charged an additional £167.16  as the cost of the finance. Since issuing my provisional 
findings Mr Ls previous  insurer confirmed that it made a mistake and told him hed got eight 
years NCD instead of three. However,  its confirmed that as it made a mistake  it will honour 
the eight years. Mr L has benefitted here from his previous  insurers  mistake. In light of this 
B has said it will refund him the additional £575.06  premium it charged him to re-rate his 
policy. And I can see that CCG has also waived the commission. I understand Mr L has 
already been sent a cheque for £711.32. That means I dont think hes suffered a loss in this 
regard. And I remain satisfied that CCG was entitled  to charge an admin fee for the changes 
it made. And I dont  think CCG is to blame for any negative markers on Mr Ls credit file, as 
its not charged him anything it shouldnt.  
I recognise that Mr L was put in touch with CCG as a specialist broker. However, that wasnt  
CCGs fault and it placed  his policy with one of its insurers on the basis  of the information he 
provided. I think it was reasonable for CCG  to think Mr L had a policy cancelled, as I have 
heard him tell it hed had a policy cancelled in a phone call. 
I understand Mr Ls unhappy  that CCG refused to re-rate the premium when B confirmed he 
didnt need to have a policy cancelled.  However,  its the insurer  who would be responsible  
for re-rating  the premium and not CCG. Im satisfied that CCG passed on the information 
from the insurer which was that the insurer hadnt  charged Mr L any extra due to having a 
policy cancelled. If Mr L remains unhappy about  that he can complain to the insurer 
separately.
cost of finance
Ive listened to the call where  Mr L bought his policy and the advisor  said the interest  rate 
was 23.5%. The finance agreement shows this is the flat rate interest but the APR on the 
first drawing  of the agreement was 60.94%. In order to provide clear  information about the 
agreement Mr L was entering in to, I do think CCG should have been clearer about the APR 
when selling  the policy. But Mr L was given the total cost of his policy, including the cost for 
the finance. And I can also see that the APR was set out in the information provided by the 
finance company.  I think its likely Mr L would have still bought  the policy even if hed known 
at the outset the difference between the APR and the flat rate interest, because this didnt 
increase the overall amount CCG made  him aware he needed to pay. 
I understand Mr L remains unhappy  about  having to provide a copy  of his driving licence  and 
thinks this might be because his policy is considered high risk. However, I dont find this an 
unusual way for an insurer to ask a policyholder to confirm their identification and driving 
record. So, I dont think CCG was unreasonable in asking  for this. 
Ref: DRN51921266Mr L said he sent his letter  of 18 June to CCGs correct address. Ive looked at the 
paperwork and can see the address  on the letter is the same  given in the policy  document 
for written complaints. So, I think Mr L did send this to the correct  address. But, as I said in 
my provisional findings, if this wasnt the correct department CCG should have arranged  to 
pass this on. I remain  satisfied that CCG  needs to compensate him for its poor service in this 
regard and I am satisfied  £100 is a fair amount for it to pay for that. 
I appreciate Mr L has put a lot of time and effort into contacting CCG to try to resolve what  
he feels has gone wrong. But I dont hold CCG responsible  for that so Im not going  to ask it 
to compensate him further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Complete Cover Group Ltd should pay Mr L £100 compensation for 
the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience it caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5192126