K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc mismanaged her ISA and 
unit trust holdings, resulting in her receiving income  she didnt require. Shes  spent a lot of 
time and effort  attempting to obtain  details of the fees shes  been charged since SJP began  
managing her portfolio in 2015.
background
Mrs R agreed  to stop receiving monthly  income from her unit trust/ISA but the income didnt 
stop even though the instruction had been completed. This carried  on until November 2018.  
SJP eventually admitted  this mistake and confirmed that Mrs R had lost some tax-free 
benefit as she couldnt currently re-invest the money back  into her ISA. It calculated this 
potential loss as £502.43 and rounded this up to £550. It also offered an extra £1,000  for the 
mismanagement of her ISA and another £250  for distress and inconvenience. The total offer 
was £1,800.
Mrs R rejected this offer and asked SJP to refund around half of the management fees she 
had paid (£33,000); specifically, £17,031. SJP increased its offer to £4,000,  an offer which 
Mrs R rejected.
An investigator at this service felt SJPs offer was fair and reasonable, explaining:
Its calculation of Mrs Rs potential ISA loss looked accurate i.e. the most she could 
lose would be around £500
She was also entitled to a reasonable sum in lieu of the considerable time and effort  
shed been forced to put in to get this resolved
SJPs fees accurately  reflected the terms and conditions Mrs R had agreed for 
managing her portfolio
Mrs R did not agree, and said:
The investigator had not fully acknowledged or considered the extent of her 
complaint
SJPs failure to transfer her funds into accumulation  units  (in 2015) resulted in her 
receiving unnecessary income: this is a serious  failure to manage her portfolio and 
fully warrants a refund of management  charges
In 2016 she instructed  SJP to switch her ISA and unit trust portfolio into new income  
portfolios; again her instructions that this should be in accumulation  units  rather than 
income was ignored
She had never received an explanation for these errors
An ISA is an extremely valuable asset, not simply because of its tax status but its 
long-term growth; these  errors  reduced  her portfolios value and potential growth. In a 
fluctuating market it is impossible to estimate this loss and neither SJP nor the 
investigator has fully assessed  this potential loss, which  will be substantial
She instructed  it to stop paying income in June 2017, when she discovered what was 
happening, but this didnt  happen till December 2018
The unauthorised  income was more  than £16,000, not £11,390  as SJP claimed
SJP repeatedly failed  to provide  her with a full of list of the charges she incurred  
until February 2018
Ref: DRN55881072Excluding the set-up charge of £6,000, its management  charges amounted  to 
£27,239 as of 2018
In this light she would accept a sum of just over £15,000 in returned  fees
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to acknowledge that SJP made a series of errors, over a number  of 
years, appears to have been  very slow to deal with these and failed to provide complete and 
accurate figures  about its charges for a long time.
This resulted in income  being paid against Mrs Rs wishes and this money no longer  being 
invested (from what Ive read.) Its also not been possible, up to date, to reinvest this money 
within her ISA so causing a potentially long-term  loss of ISA tax-free benefits. None of this 
appears to be in dispute.
I recognise there is some ongoing dispute  about  the size of Mrs Rs loss but I am not 
persuaded her losses are greater than SJP has calculated. Firstly, I am satisfied its ISA loss 
calculation mirrored the approach this service  would recommend and was applied to the 
appropriate income figure. Also,  given  market falls this money  paid as income  would not 
have grown in value if kept within her investments. 
Even if Mrs Rs unrequested income  was around £5,000 more than SJP calculated  - and I 
am not persuaded of this  this would only increase her maximum loss after 10 years by 
another couple of hundred pounds.  Also, in my view the formula SJP uses, and which this 
service recommends, is in fact a reasonably generous one, assessing the maximum 
possible losses based over a 10 year period. 
So, in my view, SJPs final total offer of £4,000  is reasonable.  I do think its initial offer was 
far from reasonable  and failed to fully take account  of the substantial impact  its errors  had on 
Mrs R and her confidence  in its handling of her substantial portfolio; let alone  its slow and 
unsatisfactory response to her concerns and request  for information about its charges.
But, on balance, I believe its recent offer is sufficient.  This broadly consists of £500 in lieu of 
the ISA loss and £3,500 in lieu of its numerous  failings. This is a significance sum and rightly  
so given the nature of its repeated failings.
Ultimately, I dont accept Mrs Rs view that SJPs error in repeatedly  and mistakenly paying 
out income warrants refunding a substantial part of the fees for managing her large and 
complex portfolio.  While this was clearly a major error, it continued to provide the broader 
service she had signed up for and I think it would be disproportionate  to refund more  than a 
small percentage of its fees. I am satisfied that the £3,500 offer is a fair percentage.
Ref: DRN55881073my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5588107