K822xcomplaint
Mrs M says she was given unsuitable  advice by Factum Financial Limited (Factum), in 
2017, to invest  in an Investment Bond Portfolio (IBP) which did not protect her capital, as 
she required, and which was for a longer term than she required.
background 
Limited evidence  has been provided in this complaint and despite our repeated requests (for 
additional information) to Factum between April and September  2019 no response(s) appear  
to have been received. Based on available evidence, the main facts and submissions can be 
summarised as follows:
Mrs M was 72 years  old and widowed at the time of the recommendation. A relatively  
brief fact find/recommendation summary  document and a product illustration 
document for the IBP support this. Mrs M says she received neither at the time of 
advice, until Factum  sent them as part of its final response to her complaint. She 
says she received no fact find, suitability or recommendation documentation at the 
time of advice. The illustration shows Mrs Ms name and date of birth.
She sought to invest £100,000 for income, but with the added priority of keeping this 
capital safe as she intended  to bequeath  it to her sons  in the unfortunate event of her 
passing. The fact find/recommendation  summary supports this, but the illustration 
shows an erroneous figure of £101,000. Mrs M says the Factum  adviser  repeatedly 
assured her that her capital would be secure  in the IBP as long as she delayed  
income withdrawals for around six months  (to aid the accumulation of some growth 
within it before income withdrawals began). Factum disputes this and says the fact 
find/recommendation summary  includes a warning that income  withdrawals could 
reduce the prospects of capital security. It also says the illustration supported this 
warning. In response, Mrs M repeats that she received neither document  at the time.
Mrs M says she paid £1,010 for the advice  by cheque at the outset;  after investing in 
the IBP she delayed her income withdrawals as agreed and began  them  when the 
IBP was worth £101,500; she limited herself to income withdrawals at the rate of 3% 
(which she was told she needed to maintain for the purpose  of securing her capital); 
she then learnt that her capital had declined (by around £5,000  to date),  that it was 
not secured as she was promised and, more  recently, that based on her 
understanding of the illustration the capital guarantee element is effective after a 20 
years term;  she considers this inherently  unsuitable  as she did not want  an 
investment term longer than seven years  especially as she wanted to pass the 
capital to her sons  and never  agreed  to wait until her 90s to benefit from such a 
guarantee.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld,  
whilst noting the limited available evidence and this services efforts  to obtain additional 
information from Factum. He proposed redress based on a benchmark  comparison. Mrs M 
accepted this outcome but initially counter proposed redress based on repayment  of the 
reduction in her capital.  Thereafter she returned  to and accepted the investigators  redress 
proposal. In the absence  of a response  from Factum, the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN55211302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite the limited documentation,  there is enough evidence in Factums fact find/summary 
document to broadly support Mrs Ms claims about  her objective for income from the IBP and 
her need  to have  the capital within it secure.  The document states  both, it also states her 
plan to pass the capital to her sons  which adds support  to the conclusion that her need for 
security of that capital  was expressly  declared  and known to Factum.
I have not seen enough evidence to establish  that this document  and the illustration 
document were  provided to Mrs M at the time of advice. We have not been provided with 
copies of any formal  suitability assessment document(s) or recommendation letter to Mrs M. 
The summary document does qualify the idea of capital security as Factum has argued  but, 
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I consider that even if Factum was mindful  of this 
at the time it was not shared with Mrs M. The balance of available evidence suggests  that 
she continued to believe her capital was secure provided she maintained  income 
withdrawals at the rate of 3%.
An important point  to note is that Factums  summary document  records  Mrs Ms need  for full 
capital security in a manner that suggests it was a firm and uncompromising need  
especially with the connection between that need  and her plan to pass  the capital to her 
sons. In contrast, the summary then treats this as a matter that can be compromised, 
whereby there was acceptance of the risk of capital loss within the IBP. I have not seen 
evidence within the summary, or beyond, of grounds  on which  Factum  could reasonably  
have done this or of Mrs M accepting such a risk. Faced with a client   Mrs M  who firmly 
sought to invest  without the risk of capital loss Factums  task was to recommend an 
investment that did not have such a risk. It was not reasonable for it to have done the 
opposite  which is what it did by recommending  the IBP with an inherent  risk of capital loss. 
The recommendation was unsuitable  in this respect.
The illustration document  shows  a Secure  Capital Option element  with a secure capital 
value which  decreased over time and its projected  value  on the 20th year of the IBP. The 
former defeated Mrs Ms objective  (and instruction) for full capital security, as addressed  
above, and as she has argued the latter was inherently unsuitable  for her profile at the time.
fair compensation
I conclude that Mrs M was given unsuitable  investment advice. In deciding what will be fair 
compensation for her, my aim is to put her as close as I can to the position she would 
probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice. I consider that she would 
have invested  differently  but it is not possible to say precisely what  she would have done 
differently. However,  I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given available 
evidence of Mrs Ms risk averse  profile,  circumstances  and objectives  when she invested. 
what must  Factum do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Factum must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
Ref: DRN55211303investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation for 
financial loss is payable.  
Pay interest on the compensation as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded.
investment benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional interest
Mrs Ms 
MetLife  
Investment 
Bond 
PortfolioThe Bank  of 
England average 
return from fixed 
rate bonds Date  of 
investmentDate 
surrendered8% simple  per year from 
the end date to the date 
of settlement 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Factum should 
use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  Any additional sum paid into the investment should  be added  to the fair 
value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income 
or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at the point it 
was actually paid out so it ceases  to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because Mrs M wanted income without risk to 
her capital. The average rate for fixed rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to capital. It does not mean that Mrs M 
would have invested in a fixed  rate bond, but I consider this benchmark  a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from a suitable  
investment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I order Factum  Financial 
Limited to provide her with redress as detailed  above. It must  also provide her with its 
calculation of redress in a clear and simple  format. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 
14 March 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ref: DRN55211304Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5521130