K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  because:
 Mr M applied for the credit card online and was given a yes or no choice about buying 
the PPI. He had to make a choice before he could proceed to the next page of the 
credit card application.  Mr M clicked in a box to say yes. So I think Canada Square 
made Mr M aware that he had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take it. 
 Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. 
 Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Mr M doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and based on what  I know  about his 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. While he had some 
sick pay through his work the PPI wouldve paid out for longer  than this wouldve 
lasted. And he had no other way of making  repayments if he was unable to work. So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped him buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments. But these points  dont  change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5952317