K821x#15complaint
Mr K instructed Your  Money Management Ltd (YMM) to claim for potentially mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI). Two claims were successful and YMM invoiced for 
their fees.  Mr K cancelled  YMMs services and is unhappy with the cancellation fee hes 
being charged.
background
Mr K instructed YMM  to act for him in 2016.  They made PPI mis-selling claims for him, two 
of which  were successful. The claim with PPI provider G was successful because of 
undisclosed commission and not because the PPI policy had been unsuitable for Mr K.
While YMM invoiced Mr K for their success fees on both of the successful claims, they also 
asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into the suitability element of the claim 
against PPI provider G. The Financial Ombudsman Service  said they couldnt look into this 
because PPI provider  G had told Mr K that the unsuitability element of his claim had been  
unsuccessful in 2014.
Mr K was unhappy with how YMM  were chasing  him for their success  fees - he was 
unemployed at the time  and he asked them to stop working  for him. YMM  sent Mr K a 
cancellation invoice  for £620.
Mr K has complained about the cancellation  fees,  and that YMM didnt provide a breakdown 
of how these were calculated. Hes also unhappy that, when they did send him this 
breakdown, it was sent in a plain envelope that was ripped during delivery. YMM followed 
this up by sending  him this information  in an unencrypted  email.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that YMM  hadnt  acted reasonably. He felt they werent able to charge 
a success fee and a cancellation fee on the same claim, and that they should cancel their 
cancellation invoice  and any associated costs. He also felt that, while  YMM couldnt be held 
responsible for the damage to the envelope,  they couldve  sent what  was a significant  
amount of sensitive data by a different communication  method  or in a sturdier  envelope. As 
there was no evidence that Mr Ks personal data had been compromised, the investigator 
felt an apology was the most appropriate  remedy.
YMM didnt agree with the investigator. They feel theyre entitled to charge their cancellation 
fees, as Mr K cancelled  their services. They say they dont agree that the outcome of the 
claim with PPI provider G was fair and they wouldve appealed the Financial Ombudsman 
Services decision not to look at this, if Mr K hadnt cancelled the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN50678032The claim with PPI provider G was successful and YMM invoiced him for their success  fee. 
The success  fee is a percentage of the amount  Mr K was awarded,  and isnt based on the 
amount of work  YMM  did on the claim.  Ive seen  nothing in YMMs terms and conditions  that 
shows they can charge  both their success fee and for the work they did on the claim.
The claim was successful  because Mr K hadnt  been told how much of the PPI premiums  
were paid to PPI provider  G as commission, and not because  the PPI policy  had been  
unsuitable for Mr Ks needs at the time he took it out. YMM say they disagree that the policy  
was suitable for Mr K, and they took this part of the claim to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. YMM invoiced  Mr K for their success fee on the commission element of the claim.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service said they wouldnt  look at the suitability element of Mr 
Ks claim  because it was out of time. I appreciate that YMM say they wouldve appealed this 
decision if Mr K hadnt cancelled their services,  but Ive seen nothing  to show  this appeal 
wouldve been successful.  When a claim was unsuccessful, YMM wouldnt charge any fee.
YMMs £620 cancellation  fee is based on an assessment fee, 20 letters and seven and a 
half hours work. This is for all of the work theyve done on Mr Ks claim, not just the work 
done in sending the unsuitability element  to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.  Because  the 
terms and conditions dont allow YMM to charge a success fee and for work theyve done on 
a claim,  I dont think its fair that theyre  charging Mr K for the work they did before the 
commission element of his claim was successful.
Mr K didnt want YMM to act for him and appeal the decision made by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The unsuitability element of the claim had been rejected by both PPI 
provider G and the Financial Ombudsman  Service, which means  that this part of the claim 
was unsuccessful. Ive seen nothing  to show that YMM can charge for an unsuccessful  
claim, or that Mr K has to let them appeal a decision by the Financial Ombudsman  Service.  
Because of this, I dont think its fair that YMM charge  a cancellation fee for the work they did 
on sending the unsuitability element of the claim  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
YMM sent Mr K over 100 pages of documents in the post,  which included sensitive personal  
information. I agree that YMM cant be held responsible  for any damage that was caused  to 
the envelope by the postal services. They also sent this information to him by email,  without  
using any security measures such as password protecting the attachments. While there is 
nothing to show that Mr Ks personal information  was intercepted,  I understand why he was 
worried that it mightve been. Because of this, I agree  YMM should  apologise  for the worry 
caused to Mr K by their choice of delivery methods.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Your  Money  Management Ltd 
should apologise to Mr K for the worry caused  when he received his personal  information, 
cancel the cancellation invoice and waive  any associated costs.
Ref: DRN50678033Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5067803