K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that they were mis-sold regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) by Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS).
background
During a meeting in 2008 Mr and Mrs S applied for a joint mortgage with YBS. At the same 
time they took out PPI policies to protect  their repayments if either of them were unable  to 
work. Mr Ss policy covered him for accident, sickness  and unemployment  and Mrs Ss 
policy covered her for unemployment only.
The complaint on Mr Ss policy has been  upheld  so my decision is only on the sale of Mrs 
Ss policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint on Mrs Ss policy should be upheld. She thought  
the policy was presented  as optional in the paperwork and Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
understood they had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve suited their needs 
at the time. 
Mr and Mrs S disagree, they say they were  told they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs Ss policy was sold during a meeting.  YBS had to make it clear the PPI was optional and 
not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say this wasnt done  but havent  given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  the documents 
and notes from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the contact notes recorded  internally by YBS at the time of the sale.  The 
notes say Mrs S thought  as her income was a lot more  that protection  was needed in the 
event of her becoming  unemployed. The notes  record  that Mrs Ss employer provided her 
with accident and sickness cover so only unemployment was recommended.  The notes  also 
say that investigating  income protection was too much for her and felt that 12 months cover 
okay for their needs.
I think this shows there  was a detailed  discussion  about their circumstances and needs. And 
I think that because  Mrs S didnt have  to take full PPI and could tailor the policy  to her needs 
she wouldve understood she didnt have to take the policy  but chose to do so because she 
wanted the cover.
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that YBS not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs S could 
Ref: DRN58867412make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs and circumstances.
I dont know if YBS took all the steps  it shouldve.  But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs S for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
The notes referred to above record Mrs S didnt need accident and sickness cover  but 
protecting her income against  unemployment was important to them. The policy 
wouldve covered  Mrs S in this event for up to 12 months per claim and paid out on top 
of any redundancy pay or other means.   
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs S in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs S at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs S information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see the costs were  clear from the mortgage 
payment insurance  illustration completed  at the time, but I dont know  if YBS gave all the 
information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable  and based  
on what Mr and Mrs S have told us about  their circumstances  at the time, I think  they 
wouldve still taken out the PPI policy covering Mrs S if theyd been given all the proper 
information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs S arent  any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by YBS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Yorkshire 
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5886741