K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
saying its mortgage  product  came with free legal fees when that wasnt correct  in their view.  
They want  matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs R wanted to remortgage and applied online  for a product that came with free 
legal fees to Nationwide. They said that after applying and getting a decision in principle, 
consumers were only then told that theyd have  to pay a fee to check their identity and that 
there may be other  fees. Mr and Mrs R accepted that the fees were set out in the mortgage  
offer, but said this was after the decision in principle was given. They also felt that it was 
unreasonable to charge them an identity check fee when they were customers of Nationwide  
already. 
Mr and Mrs R also said that the solicitors said that theyd waive the fees and then refused to 
do so. They  felt it was unfair that they had to promise to pay any fees the solicitors incurred 
and believed  that their right to complaint had been  removed.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to Nationwide. It said that they could complain to the solicitors,  as 
well as Nationwide. It also said that free legal fees covered the solicitors fees and standard  
expenses, but not other fees, legal work or the fees charged by other lenders. Nationwide  
said that this was set out clearly in the mortgage offer and its website. Nationwide  also 
explained that the solicitors had to check identities  of parties under money  laundering laws,  
so it wasnt unfair for the solicitor to charge  for this.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that the product chosen online 
by Mr and Mrs R came with a choice of free legal fees or cashback, and they selected free 
legal fees. She noted that Nationwides website  said some  fees might  be charged in addition 
and that the solicitor would tell the consumer if that was the case; the adjudicator also noted 
that the key facts illustration gave the same warning. She pointed out that Nationwide then 
set out the fees which would cost extra, which included electronic identity checks.
The adjudicator said that solicitors had to carry out identity  checks and it was possible to do 
that for free. However, Mr and Mrs R chose  to use the electronic check service.  But she 
commented that the solicitors had refunded the identity check fee and it was possible to 
complain to both the solicitors and Nationwide. The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed.  They felt that enough information about  the limits of the free legal 
fees offer wasnt given  before starting  the application, and even the free option to check  their 
identity wasnt fair or reasonable. Mr and Mrs R also said that they didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable to make  them sign terms and conditions as drafted by the solicitors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53500982Im going  to focus on the core of this complaint, which is about the free legal fees and the 
extra costs  paid by Mr and Mrs R. This is because its clear Mr and Mrs R can complain to 
Nationwide and the solicitors (as theyve done  so) and the issue  about whether solicitors  
should ask consumers to agree to pay any fees they incur is not an issue  in this case,  but 
more of a general  point.  This service  can only deal with individual  complaints,  though  I would 
comment that this isnt an unusual contractual term.
Mr and Mrs R chose the mortgage product and selected the option of free legal fees online. 
Im satisfied that the information on the website did warn Mr and Mrs R that there were limits 
to this offer. But in any event, Mr and Mrs R accept that they knew  about the possible further  
fees as they were given this information  in writing before accepting the mortgage offer.  Their  
point is that they werent given the detail until after the decision in principle was issued. But 
decisions in principles arent binding and are simply an indication  that the application is likely 
to be successful. The key documents are the key facts illustration and the mortgage  offer,  
and these set out the terms of the free legal fees offer.  Lenders  arent  required to tell 
consumers in depth the details of the incentive  offer before application  theyre required to 
do so before the mortgage offer is accepted.
And in addition, Mr and Mrs R were sent a letter before accepting the mortgage offer 
specifically telling them  that extra fees,  such as an electronic identity check,  might  need to 
be paid but that the solicitor would tell them  in advance. This isnt unfair or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs R complain that the solicitors didnt  need to check  their identity. For a number of 
reasons, this is incorrect. Solicitors must check the identity of parties to property transactions  
for money  laundering reasons (and sometimes to give assurances to the Land  Registry). 
And Mr and Mrs R chose  to use the electronic check option, despite being  told of the cost.  
But it isnt clear from the evidence available to me whether  Mr and Mrs R were told about  the 
free option.  As the solicitors have now refunded the fee after dealing  with the complaint, I 
dont think anything further is required. The same  logic applies to the point about  whether the 
solicitors did promise to waive the fee; the fee has been refunded, which  initially  was what  
Mr and Mrs R told this service that they wanted. I would also point out that identity checks 
must be carried out close to the time of the transaction so it wouldnt be appropriate to rely 
on identity checks carried out previously.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5350098