K822xcomplaint
Ms W (on behalf of Mr Ws estate)  complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
allowed a third party (Mr B) to make payments from Mr Ws account between 2003  and 2007 
and failed to identify the payments were  part of ongoing financial abuse.
background 
Unfortunately, due to the time thats  passed, some information is not available but here is the 
background as I understand  it from what has been  provided.
In February 2003  Mr W put in place an Enduring Power of Attorney (EPOA) in relation to all 
his property and affairs with no specific restrictions  here he appointed his neighbour (Mr B) 
as his sole Attorney.  He also added Mr B as a signatory to his accounts with NatWest.
Following this, Mr B transferred funds from Mr Ws savings vehicles to Mr Ws current  
account. Over the next couple of years funds  were regularly withdrawn using various  
methods including cash withdrawals, cheques and bank drafts.
Ms W raised  concerns  with the relevant authorities  about the wider situation in which  Mr B 
had taken over Mr Ws care, this included  her concerns about Mr Bs involvement in Mr Ws 
finances, but Mr B was allowed  to remain Mr Ws Attorney.
The EPOA was registered with the Court  of Protection (COP) in January 2005 indicating  
Mr W no longer  had mental capacity to manage his affairs and extended Mr Bs legal 
authority to deal with and manage Mr Ws accounts.  At this point Mr B informed  NatWest  of 
this development  and of Mr Ws new residence  at a care home.
In 2006 Mr Ws home was sold. In 2007, from the proceeds,  Mr B made a £60,000 swift 
payment marked as an urgent transfer in branch to a foreign account  in his own name. In 
January 2008  Mr B informed NatWest of his change of address, and that he was resident  in 
France.
In April 2008 the Office  of Public Guardian (OPG) informed NatWest it was investigating  a 
complaint about  Mr Bs management of Mr Ws financial affairs. And in August 2008  the 
COP revoked the EPOA  it made a finding that Mr B was unsuitable and appointed Ms W in 
the interim. Ms W updated  NatWest  and informed it of her concerns  here she requested  
information to help her investigate  the financial activity on her fathers accounts. 
Unfortunately, Mr W passed away in 2009. 
Ms W took civil action and in 2012  a High Court Judgement  ordered  Mr B (and in part his 
wife) to repay over £200,000 (including, but not limited to, funds removed from Mr Ws 
NatWest accounts) to Ms W, as the administrator of Mr Ws estate. However, Ms W has 
been advised that Mr B was declared  bankrupt in France and so there are no assets to 
recover. Ms W has said she will inform  NatWest if the position changes and anything  is 
recovered.
The police also sought criminal charges and Mr B was extradited but there  were  delays to 
his trial. In 2017  Mr B pled guilty (to some, but not all, of the charges) and was sentenced.
Ms W says NatWest  should have done  more to identify the financial abuse and protect 
Mr W. In particular, she thinks it failed in the following ways:
-To identify Mr W as vulnerable
Ref: DRN58514072-To identify the change  in account activity  as concerning  including  spending 
patterns and change  to his asset level. 
Ms W is complaining about  the activity from 18 March 2003  onwards as this is when she 
thinks NatWest ought  to have identified something was wrong  there were  two large 
bankers drafts in branch on this date totalling £6,800  and a cheque for £2,000.  Ms Ws 
requesting NatWest refund just under £45,000  for payments over 2003 - 2004 and the 
£60,000 international payment in 2007,  plus interest.  Ms W has asked that we consider the 
matter as two complaints  due to our award  limits and highlighted why she thinks they are 
distinct, including:
-The time separating  the activity in 2003-2004 and 2007
-The EPOA being registered in 2005.
NatWest says all the payments were authorised and the governing body responsible  for 
monitoring the actions  of an Attorney is the Office of the Public  Guardian  (OPG), the 
administrative arm of the Court of Protection. The OPG have the authority to investigate any 
alleged misappropriation  by an Attorney and any concerns  about  an Attorneys actions can 
be raised with them.
NatWest opposed  our services consideration of this case due to the time that had passed 
and because there has been some  court action. But it has since  accepted that we can 
consider the matter.
NatWest has also said that it couldnt have known  the disputed  spend wasnt  for Mr Ws 
benefit. Its used  the example that purchasing  a car could have been to help take Mr W out, 
and that the building  costs  could have been to improve Mr Ws home. It has also highlighted 
that it was not made aware  of the parallel  events in relation to Ms Ws concerns and 
correspondence with the OPG or other official bodies.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. He thought NatWest ought to have  identified  
the £60,000 payment in 2007 was suspicious and concluded that if NatWest had taken 
appropriate steps this loss would  likely  have  been  prevented. NatWest didnt agree with the 
investigators reasoning  but did offer to refund this payment as a gesture of goodwill. It also 
offered to apply interest but to cap the total award at £100,000.
I let both parties know that I thought  it was appropriate for this to be treated as one complaint 
and that this offer was fair in the circumstances. I explained:
-The disputed payments all stem  from ongoing financial abuse by Mr B. 
-The disputed payments were all authorised in line with the account terms.
-I didnt think NatWest  fell short of expectations at the time of the payments between  
March 2003- December  2004.
-I agreed the 2007 payment ought  to have been treated as suspicious  and so it was 
right for this to be refunded, but said I thought it was fair to cap the interest as 
proposed by NatWest.
Ms W didnt  accept this offer, she reiterated her request for the complaints to be 
considered separately. Ms W also requested a refund for the 2003-2004 transactions 
and said:
-NatWest didnt  understand  the limits that the law places upon the use of a 
Donors assets by an Attorney. She referenced, amongst other things, the 
Enduring Powers of Attorney Act 1985  and Mental Capacity Act 2005.
Ref: DRN58514073-The payments  went  beyond the scope  of the Attorneys authority under the EPOA 
and donors shouldnt be bound by anything done  outside of their authority. Ms W 
doesnt agree the payments are authorised.
-NatWest should  have treated payments after it was aware  Mr W was in a care 
home with more caution.
-Only NatWest had the information  needed  to identify the abuse,  Ms W thinks  the 
COP would  have revoked the POA  sooner if it was aware of the account  activity. 
-As a result  of NatWests inaction Ms W took civil action in the High Court.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part. I still think the offer of £100,000  in settlement of this complaint  is fair in the 
circumstances and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge how awful it is that Mr W was taken advantage of in this way 
and that this matter  has been ongoing for a significant period of time. I understand there 
were several official bodies involved with a role in safeguarding  Mr W. All parties here have 
accepted that Mr W was the victim of financial abuse, and the courts  have concluded who 
the perpetrators were. This includes  a civil judgement and a criminal sentence. Both are 
about the liability of Mr B rather than NatWest and neither  have led to the recovery of funds 
to the estate of Mr W. For clarity  my findings are limited  to NatWests role as Mr Ws bank at 
the time  more  specifically in relation to the disputed  payments from Mr Ws accounts held 
with it. 
This means  that I dont need to make a finding on whether the disputed  funds were taken as 
part of ongoing  financial abuse of Mr W by Mr B. As Ms W (on behalf of Mr Ws estate)  has 
not recovered any funds from Mr B or his wife, Im satisfied its still appropriate for me 
consider the losses  to Mr Ws estate as a result of any erroneous acts or omissions  by 
NatWest.
Should this be treated  as more than one complaint?
The rules  on our jurisdiction to consider a complaint are set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Dispute Resolutions Rules. Ms W has made some  relevant arguments for why 
she thinks our service  should treat this matter  as more than one complaint; the time that 
passed between  the payments and the registration  of the EPOA in 2005.  Ive thought about 
this carefully and Im satisfied that it is correct to consider the disputed payments complained 
of here as a whole  Ill explain why. While there  was indeed a significant period of time over 
which these disputed payments took place, they all stem from the same  core ongoing issue  
 that of financial abuse by the Attorney that Mr W authorised to act on his behalf. 
Registering the EPOA gave Mr B further authority in relation  to other matters, such as selling 
Mr Ws property,  but Mr B was already a signatory on the account making payments, so I 
dont think this substantially changed the basis on which Mr B was interacting  with NatWest 
or his authority to make payments. I note,  in this case, whether we treat this as one 
complaint or more  hasnt affected the outcome or redress  that I think is fair.
Were the payments authorised?
Ref: DRN58514074The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws account  set out the relationship  between  NatWest and 
Mr W at the time. These are the starting point for how a customer  can give instructions  to 
make payments from the account. When Mr W added  Mr B as a signatory to his account 
with NatWest this gave Mr B the authority to make payments  from his account.
Neither the EPOA from 2003 or when it was later registered with the OPG  in 2005 provided 
any specific restrictions on the activities intended to be covered. So, this wouldnt have 
restricted Mr Bs authority to continue  operating  Mr Ws accounts. For these reasons, all the 
disputed activity was authorised in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account. 
I understand Ms Ws points around  the scope of an Attorneys authority being set out in law 
and that there are important principals within this. Particularly in relation to an Attorneys 
responsibilities and who they can gift funds to. But those matters  are more relevant to 
whether Mr B ought to have been  or remained Mr Ws Attorney which was for the OPG and 
COP to consider. Similarly, these are points  that the courts would likely have considered  in 
relation to Mr Bs civil and criminal  liability. They dont, however, change  the fact that the 
payments instructions were given to NatWest by a signatory to Mr Ws accounts and 
correctly authorised. 
There is, however the matter of whether it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to have 
treated these payments as authorised or allowed them to go ahead in all the circumstances, 
and Ill go on to that next.
Should NatWest have allowed the payments?
Whilst the payments  were  all authorised, there is still the question  of whether NatWest  ought 
to have done more to identify and prevent this financial abuse. I agree that Mr Ws 
vulnerability and account activity are relevant considerations in this respect. We now have 
the benefit of hindsight  and Im mindful that what is expected of banks like NatWest  has 
changed significantly over time  particularly in relation to protecting vulnerable customers.  
So, for clarity my findings are based  on the relevant requirements and good practice at the 
time of the payments,  and what  NatWest would have (or ought to have)  been aware of at the 
time.
In relation to the payments between 2003-2004, bearing in mind what  NatWest knew at the 
time, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that it ought to have identified  that these 
payments were of concern or not in their customers interests. Ive reviewed the account 
activity from December 2001 onwards and saw that Mr W had made  large payments and 
withdrawals before those  being disputed. This included several cheques for around or over 
£1,000.
I understand Ms Ws point  about  the transactions  on 18 March 2003, on the face of it this 
was a lot of money. But the two large  bankers drafts were  to a garage and to a glazers  
NatWest has said it would  have  had no reason to doubt that these were for Mr Ws benefit, it 
has suggested a reasonable  assumption would have been that these were for repairs  to 
Mr Ws home and that the purpose  of purchasing a car was to transport him. Unfortunately,  
we dont have  full details of what was discussed when Mr B went in branch and so we cant 
know for certain, but I find it would have been  plausible these were for Mr Ws benefit and 
part of Mr B role as Mr Ws Attorney. And I dont think the cheque  would have appeared 
particularly unusual for the account.
Ref: DRN58514075The payments from the account were regular and over time a significant amount was taken. 
But at the time I dont  think any of the payments between 2003-2004 would have been 
significantly large or different enough to conclude that NatWest  ought to have done more.  
Im also not persuaded that had NatWest taken steps to further understand the purpose  of 
any of these payments  that it would have changed how events unfolded.  As the authorised 
signatory on the account was the perpetrator, he would  have  likely  confirmed these were  
intentional payments  for the benefit of Mr W. I note a significant quantity of payments were 
linked to the building trade which Mr B was in, and it would have been quite plausible that 
these payments were  to make improvements to Mr Ws home.
I understand that there were  also several cash withdrawals and that Mr W had not previously 
operated his account this way. But I dont think it would have been concerning in itself for 
there to have been a change in how funds are accessed when a different person is operating  
the account. In relation to the cheques made out to Mr Bs wife, Ive addressed earlier  that 
whether Mr B, as an Attorney, could make gifts like this is not a matter for NatWest  to have 
determined at the time. Mr B would have been  allowed to make payments to others  for many 
reasons for example  if Mr W was expected to provide for that persons needs and it wasnt 
NatWests role to monitor this, but that of the OPG.
Ive also taken into account that Mr Ws balance was initially increased when Mr B moved  
Mr Ws savings  into the account.  And the balance was then run down slowly over the course 
of around two years. Mr W was receiving incoming payments and the balance was mostly  in 
the thousands, so I dont  think  theres a clear  point in 2003-2004 where NatWest ought to 
have identified the financial abuse.
However, I agree with the investigator that the £60,000 payment in 2007 ought to have 
received more scrutiny  and there  are many ways in which  it stands out. But given NatWest  
has offered to reimburse this, I wont go into making  a detailed finding on this point.
Turning to what redress is fair here, our service is not punitive and any interest we award is 
to recognise the detriment  caused  by the funds not being available.  Here, I think what ought 
to have happened is for the £60,000 payment  in 2007 not to have taken place and so it 
would have remained in that account until needed  to care for Mr W, for example his care 
home fees. 
I gather  once Mr Ws own money ran out Ms W took over paying for his care and needs until 
he passed in 2009. It appears  had the £60,000 not been taken in 2007  that these funds 
would have been fully utilised before his passing or shortly  afterwards.  So, the deprivation  of 
these funds is only for a period of time, rather indefinite. The £40,000 in interest being 
offered by NatWest would cover the likely period that Mr W or his estate  were  without these 
funds as a result of an error by NatWest.  And our powers  dont extend  to compensating third 
parties for their losses.
Its unclear whether Mr W was aware  of or distressed by the situation between  2007-2009 
given his health conditions. So, I dont think any further award would be fair in the 
circumstances 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plcs offer to pay the estate  of Mr W 
£100,000 is fair in the circumstances. This represents a refund of £60,000  and an interest  
payment of £40,000.
Ref: DRN58514076If, when making this payment, National Westminster Bank Plc makes  any tax deduction  for 
the interest element of this award then it should inform Ms W and provide her with a tax 
deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W (on behalf of 
Mr Ws estate) to accept  or reject  my decision before 30 January 2021.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5851407