K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy.
background
Miss D took out a credit card in August  1996.
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any original sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Miss D but I do know it was sold at some  point between August  1996 and January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
This decision focuses on her Mastercard  (ending ****0388). Miss D has another  credit  card 
and this has been looked at separately by our service, under a separate  reference number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Miss D nor Lloyds can give me much information  about 
the sale. This is not surprising given the amount  of time thats passed. Ive looked at what 
Miss D has said about how the policy was sold  that it wasnt made sufficiently clear that 
the policy was optional and that she wasnt given a choice. But it has been very difficult for 
me to understand how this would have  happened  with so little information available  about  
this sale. And in the absence of relevant documentation, a more  detailed recollection or 
further information to support what Miss D has said, I cannot fairly conclude  on this occasion 
that the policy was sold as she suggests it was. I would need  to see more  information to 
support what Miss D has said to conclude  otherwise. 
Lloyds isnt sure how the policy was sold, so to be fair to Miss D, I will proceed that it likely 
provided a recommendation to her to buy the policy. This placed more responsibility on 
Lloyds and it meant it had to make sure it was right for Miss D.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ds circumstances at the time, I think the PPI seems  to 
have been suitable for her. I say this because whilst Miss D says she received 6 to 12 
months sick pay from her employer, the PPI would have paid out at the same time as she 
received any sick pay and for longer.  It would have covered 10% of the outstanding credit 
card balance for up to 12 months per claim if she was unable  to work or if she lost her job. 
So I think the policy could  have been  useful to her.
Ref: DRN50173802Lloyds also had to provide  Miss D with clear, fair and not misleading information  about the 
PPI so that Miss D could  make up her mind  as to whether  she felt the policy would have  
been useful to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been, like explaining the cost of the policy. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm  the exact 
cost of the policy. But due to the amount of time thats passed since the sale its not 
surprising Lloyds doesnt have this information.  Lloyds say the cost of the policy would  have 
been between  59p and 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. This is in line with 
what I know about how Lloyds priced  other policies at around  the same  time.
Ive carefully thought  about the cost of the policy and even  looking  at the higher price of 79p 
and taking into account Miss Ds circumstances at the time,  I still think she would  have 
bought it. I say this because  as I explained above I still think  the policy would have been 
useful if Miss D was out of work  for a lengthy period.
Miss D also doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. So I dont think better information  about  this wouldve stopped her buying the policy.
In conclusion, based on the available  information I have regarding the sale and Miss Ds 
circumstances, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5017380