K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Trusted Cash Limited (trading as Trusted Quid)  gave  him unaffordable 
instalment loans. He wants a refund  of the interest and charges he paid,  with interest.
background
Mr J had three loans with one further advance from Trusted Quid  between January 2017  and 
March 2018. He said he couldnt  afford the loans as he already had significant  debts. He 
said he was desperate for money and had multiple  debt repayments.  Trusted  Quid  said it 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks  for Mr Js loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought 
Trusted Quid had carried out enough affordability  checks for the loans. And she thought 
these checks showed that Mr J had enough  disposable income to repay  the loans. So she 
couldnt say Trusted Quid had been wrong to approve them.
Mr J replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for 
a final decision.  He added that he thought  Trusted  Quids affordability checks werent 
thorough enough and hed only been able to repay  the loans through  the assistance of a 
family member. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js first loan was for £300 to be repaid over six months. The highest expected instalment 
was £131.90.  He repaid this loan early  and then borrowed £480, also to be repaid over six 
months. The highest expected instalment was £214.78. He repaid this and then borrowed a 
further advance  of £480 over four months.  The highest expected instalment was £206.80. 
Two months  after repaying  this, loan three was for £650 to be repaid over six months.  The 
highest expected instalment was £155.30. Mr J also repaid  this loan.
Trusted Quid was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
that Mr J could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr J was borrowing, and his lending  history. But 
there was no set list of checks Trusted  Quid had to do.
Trusted Quid said it carried  out credit checks for the three  loans, and its provided us with the 
results of these. It said there  was nothing untoward in these checks that should  have  
prompted further checks. It asked Mr J for his monthly  income, which he said was £1,200 for 
loans one and two and £1,300 for loan three.  It also asked Mr J for his monthly expenditure, 
including his other short-term borrowing. He said this was between £615 and £770. 
I can understand that Mr J thinks Trusted Quid should have made  more  checks. But I agree 
with the adjudicator that Trusted Quids affordability checks were  proportionate and sufficient 
for Mr Js loans.  Ive looked  at what it found  from its credit checks  and I can see that Mr J 
was managing other credit accounts.  But I cant see anything,  such  as recent defaults, that 
should have raised concerns or prompted  further checks. 
Ref: DRN57155842Trusted Quid asked  Mr J for his income and his outgoings for his normal  living costs, regular 
bills and other credit commitments, both regular and short-term.  I think it was reasonable for 
Trusted Quid to rely on the accuracy of what Mr J told it as it had no reason for concern. 
Mr J had also built up a lending history  as he repaid his loans  early  or on time.  
I dont doubt what  Mr J has told us about his circumstances. But Trusted  Quids  affordability 
checks showed that Mr J could repay his loan instalments comfortably. So I cant say it was 
wrong to approve  his loans and I dont require  it to make Mr J any refunds. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5715584