K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc, trading as Abbey  National at the time, mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in a meeting at a branch. The 
policy covered them  for up to twelve months  if either of them was unable  to work because  of 
an accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  Having done so, I dont think 
the PPI was mis-sold  for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs S say that it wasnt made clear to them that the PPI was optional and they 
specifically said they didnt want it.
This sale took place  a long time ago. So perhaps  its not that surprising that not all the 
documentation likely to have  been completed at the time is still available. Businesses arent 
required to keep such records  for these time periods. There  isnt a copy  of the PPI 
application which Im aware would need to have been completed and sent to the insurer  at 
around this time. But from my knowledge of the normal  sales process that Santander used 
for such sales, I think it would have been clear from this application that the PPI was optional  
and separate  from their mortgage application.
Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs S signed and 
theres no mention  of PPI being  a requirement of the mortgage on this. Ive also seen a copy 
of the welcome letter Mr and Mrs S received after the PPI had been arranged.  I think this 
makes it clear that this cover is optional. And I think Mr and Mrs S would have queried why 
theyd been sent this if they hadnt  previously agreed to take PPI and had said they didnt 
want it. I can also see that unemployment  cover wasnt included  on the policy they were  
sold, which makes me think that the PPI was discussed with them  and that they decided 
they only wanted cover against accidents  and sickness.
So from what Ive seen,  I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs S actively  decided to take the 
PPI knowing they could choose  not to. But I can understand why they may not be able to 
recall this now.
Mr and Mrs S have  also said that they werent  told by Santander that they could  buy the PPI 
from another provider.  But Santander  wasnt obliged to tell them this, so I dont  think  it did 
anything wrong  if it didnt.
Ref: DRN58198842Santander says that this was an advised  sale where  it recommended the PPI policy to 
Mr and Mrs S. And Ive taken  this to be the case because this means  that Santander had to 
ensure that it was suitable for them. I dont know all the steps Santander took to ensure that 
the policy was suitable. But from what I know of their circumstances when the sale took 
place, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs S appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions  and limitations.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were both eligible for sick pay from their employer and could 
also have relied on their family for support in need. But this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to these  other  means. And a mortgage  is a big financial commitment   where 
ones home is potentially at risk if the loan repayments cant be met. So I still think that 
they would  have valued the extra security which the policy  gave them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  have been  cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs S enough information for them  to decide  if they 
wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information Santander gave them  could 
have been better than it was. But for much  the same  reasons that I dont think  the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think that better  information would  have changed their minds  
about taking it.
Ive thought carefully about everything else that Mr and Mrs S and their adviser have said. 
But this hasnt changed my mind.  I still dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Santander should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs S any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN58198843my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Santander UK plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5819884