K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced his credit 
limit and didnt then increase it to cover transactions  he was already committed  to making.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 August 2019, a copy  of which  is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said Barclaycard have a duty to lend responsibly, and they were  able to 
reduce Mr As credit card limit. In doing so I felt Barclaycard should consider any 
transactions theyd  authorised but not yet applied.  But they didnt need  to consider any 
purchases Mr A intended to make, but hadnt  made,  at the time of the credit limit decrease.
Mr A had used his credit card to secure  some hotel room bookings,  but he wasnt obliged  to 
use his card to pay for the rooms. The hotels hadnt asked for any money,  so these werent  
authorised transactions; they were  transactions Mr A intended to make.  So Barclaycard 
didnt need to consider these when reducing  the credit limit.
I also felt Barclaycard had acted  reasonably  by considering Mr As request for a credit limit 
increase to cover the cost of the rooms. But I dont think they did anything wrong by deciding 
not to increase this. Because of this I didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything more.
Both Mr A and Barclaycard have been  given the opportunity to comment  on my provisional 
decision.
Barclaycard accepted my provisional decision, by Mr A didnt. He says he understands 
Barclaycard have followed their terms and conditions,  but he still feels they shouldve  given  
him more  warning or contacted him first.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive responded to the points raised by 
Mr A below.
Barclaycards Terms  and Conditions say they will review the credit limit from time to time 
and let Mr A know if theres  any changes. They also say that if we reduce your credit  limit 
based on an assessment  of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any 
notice beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate. Because  of this I dont think  that 
Barclaycard needed to give Mr A any warning of their decision or contact him about this 
beforehand.
If Barclaycard had spoken to Mr A before they reduced his credit limit, he wouldve  had the 
opportunity to let them  know  about  his hotel room bookings. Barclaycard could then have  
considered this as part of their decision to reduce the credit limit or not. But when Mr A told 
Barclaycard about  his hotel room bookings after the credit limit was reduced, they looked  to 
see if his credit limit could be increased  to cover this. 
Ref: DRN50909532Mr A was given the same  opportunity  to discuss his situation with Barclaycard after the credit 
limit had been reduced as he wouldve had if the discussion had taken place  before  the 
credit limit was reduced. So I cant say he was disadvantaged by the timing of the 
discussion.
Because of this, while Mr As comments have been considered, they dont  change  my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50909533copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, reduced his credit limit without 
discussing it with him; and didnt then increase it to cover transactions he was already committed to 
making.
background
Mr A had a Barclaycard credit card with a £3,500 credit limit and an outstanding balance of almost 
£2,000. He had already  used this card to reserve two hotel rooms,  at a cost of about £950, when 
Barclaycard reduced  his credit limit to £2,100. Because of this Mr A took out a short  term loan, at a 
high interest  rate, to cover the cost of the hotels.  He ended up paying  £262.53 interest on this loan.
Mr A has complained that Barclaycard reduced his credit limit without warning, and that they didnt  
assist him when he contacted them about the hotel rooms hed booked.
Our investigator found that Barclaycard hadnt provided  a reasonable service. He felt they shouldve 
taken the hotel  bookings into consideration when making their decision to reduce  the credit limit, as it 
was so close  to the start of Mr As trip. He didnt think it was reasonable that Mr A shouldve had to 
pay a higher interest rate to meet his obligations,  because of the unexpected  reduction in his credit 
limit. Because  of this he recommended that Barclaycard pay Mr A the interest on the loan hed taken  
out, and pay him an additional £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Barclaycard disagreed with the investigator. They say they reduced Mr As credit limit in line with their 
lending policy, and this decision took into consideration any transactions  thatd been authorised but 
not yet been applied. They say theyd considered  Mr As request  to reinstate or increase  his credit 
limit, but werent  able to agree to this. Because of this they dont think they should pay for the interest 
on Mr As loan.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Barclaycard have a duty to lend responsibly, and their terms  and conditions allow them  to reduce a 
credit limit where  they feel its necessary  to do so. They didnt need to tell Mr A they were going to do 
this and Ive seen they let him know  once this had happened.
When making a decision to reduce a credit limit, Id expect Barclaycard to consider Mr As outstanding 
balance and any transactions theyd authorised  but not applied. But I wouldnt expect  them to 
consider any purchases  Mr A intended  to make,  but hadnt yet made.
Mr A had used his credit  card to secure hotel room bookings, but the hotels hadnt requested any 
money. So, when looking  at what  type of transaction this was, I cant agree it was an authorised but 
not applied transaction. Although Mr As card had been  used to secure  the bookings,  he wasnt 
obliged to use the card to pay for the hotel rooms  he couldve paid in cash  or with another  credit  or 
debit card for example. Mr A said he wanted  to use his credit  card to pay for the hotels,  which  means  
they were purchases  he intended to make, but hadnt yet done so. Barclaycard didnt need  to 
consider these when deciding to reduce the credit limit.
Ref: DRN50909534When Barclaycard told Mr A about the reduced credit limit, he told them  about  the hotel room  
bookings. Barclaycard looked to see if they could  increase his credit limit to cover the cost of the hotel 
rooms. But the decision to reinstate or increase the credit  limit is one that Barclaycard could make,  
and I dont think  they acted  unreasonably by considering the request and deciding not to increase the 
credit limit.
I appreciate that the timing of Barclaycards decision was unfortunate, and that Mr A was frustrated by 
this. He felt he had to take out a loan at much  higher interest rate to pay for the hotel bookings, and I 
understand his reasons  for doing so. But I cant say that Barclaycard did anything wrong and, 
because of this, I dont  think  they should reimburse Mr A for the interest  on the loan,  or pay him any 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience their decision may have caused  him.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about 
Barclays Bank Plc.
Ref: DRN5090953