K820x#14complaint
Miss O makes  a number of complaints about Bank  of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  
following a loan she took out.
background
Miss O took out a Halifax loan in 2017  and says she didnt receive any confirmation the loan 
application had been approved. She says she first became aware the loan had been  
approved when the money appeared in her account. Miss O says in January 2018  her 
anxiety increased  and so reduced  her work commitments which resulted in less income. She 
says she tried to contact Halifax about this but without success  and in April 2018 wrote  to it 
including details of her income  and expenditure and made an offer to repay  the loan.
Miss O also says she gave Halifax authority to speak to her partner about the debt but 
Halifax couldnt find a record of this. Miss O says in December 2018  she received a letter  
from a debt collector and says Halifaxs  actions have  increased the level of her anxiety and 
stress. She would like Halifax to remove charges and interest from the loan and correct her 
credit file. She would  also like Halifax to agree a repayment plan.
Halifax sent Miss O its final response letter in June 2018 and in summary says all 
correspondence about the loan was sent to Miss Os online  inbox  as agreed.  It says the last 
loan re-payment was in January 2018 and it correctly moved the account to its recoveries 
department and registered a default.  Halifax accepts it didnt deal with parts of Miss Os 
complaint as it should have and paid her £35 compensation.
Miss O made a further complaint to Halifax about its failure to locate her account when she 
called in November  2018 and that she wanted a manager to call her back. Halifax  says its 
staff were unable to view Miss Os account  as at that stage it had closed her account and 
passed it to its recoveries department. It also says it gave Miss O details of that department  
but she chose  to end the call and says its made a number  of attempts to speak to her.
Miss O brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt think we could look at parts of 
the complaint  as they had been brought too late for us to consider. The investigator  thought  
Halifax issued its final response letter in June 2018 but Miss O brought  her complaint to us in 
May 2019 and so outside the six month  time limit for doing so. The investigator thought we 
could look at Miss Os complaint after that date and thought Halifax had acted reasonably  by 
writing to Miss O about the debt and by registering a default. He also thought that interest  
hadnt been added to the account  since April 2018 and that Halifax  had attempted to try and 
speak to Miss O.
Miss O didnt  accept that view and says she has evidence that Halifax accepted it didnt 
handle her account appropriately and has issued a refund. She doesnt accept she is outside 
the six month time limit for bringing the case and says it was brought  following the second 
letter she received from Halifax.  Miss O says the complaint is all linked and was not settled 
and that Halifax  didnt help her when  she was in financial difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Miss O will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ref: DRN54875072We operate under a set of rules which include a rule about when we can consider a 
complaint. That rule, as the investigator  has set out, says a complaint must be brought  to us 
within six months of the date a business responds to a complaint. I can see that Halifax 
wrote to Miss O about her complaint on 19 June 2018 and told her in that letter that she had 
six months to bring her complaint to us. Miss O brought her complaint  to us in May 2019 
which Im satisfied it outside the six month  time limit for doing so. Im also satisfied that Miss 
O received Halifaxs letter  as she has told us she received the cheque that was enclosed.  
So Im satisfied that we cant consider Miss Os complaint about matters that took place 
before June 2018 which the investigator  has summarised. And I cant  see any reason why 
Miss O couldnt have brought her complaint  about those matters to us within the time limits. I 
appreciate Miss O says the whole complaint is linked but for the reasons I have explained I 
can only consider  her complaint points after June 2018.
I can see that Miss O complained to Halifax in November 2018  about its failure to locate her 
account. Im satisfied that Halifax explained that the account had been passed to a different 
department which I think Miss O ought  to have known about as Halifaxs  letters make that 
clear. So I dont think Halifax made a mistake  or acted unfairly and I think  is entitled  to make 
a commercial decision and pass the account to a third party company for collection. I cant  
fairly interfere in such matters as I think its up to a business to decide how it operates when 
exercising its commercial  judgement. Im also satisfied that having looked at Halifaxs 
records it wrote to Miss O on numerous occasions asking her to make contact with its 
specialist debt team and also tried to contact her by telephone without success. So I think 
Halifax did try and help Miss O from June 2018  onwards.
I appreciate that Miss O says she has a letter which confirms Halifax  didnt handle her 
account appropriately. But I have looked  at that letter  and Im satisfied its a letter about 
interest incorrectly applied  and not an admission  about any other matters. Halifax accepts it 
should have stopped interest on the loan in April 2018 rather  than May 2018 and has fairly 
refunded that interest.
As I dont think Halifax overall has made a mistake  or acted unfairly then I cant  order it to 
refund any interest  or charges which I think have been applied in line with loan account  
terms and conditions which I think Miss O would have agreed to. Im satisfied no loan 
payments were made  from January 2018  and that the relationship  in those circumstances 
had broken down  between  the parties.  So I dont think Halifax made a mistake  by registering 
a default on Miss Os credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that we cant consider Miss Os complaint about events up to June 2018 
and I dont uphold  her complaint from that date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5487507