K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Homeserve Membership Limited has changed the terms of a drainage  
insurance policy and increased the premium when his policy came up for renewal.
 
background
Mr P held an.insurance policy  provided  by Homeserve, which  covered the supply pipes to 
his property. When the policy came up for renewal, the premium had almost doubled and the 
cover extended to also cover blocked  pipes and drains inside the house, among other 
things.  
Mr P is very unhappy with this. He says he doesnt want  the additional cover and just wants 
the same  policy  he had before for roughly  the same premium. Mr P also says that it is only 
via his water  supplier that he can get supply pipe cover  and so there is no other option for 
him.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter She did not recommend it be upheld,  as she 
was satisfied that Homeserve was entitled  to decide what  policy  cover  to offer and what  to 
charge for it. She also confirmed that the previous cover was no longer available.  
Mr P doesnt  accept the adjudicators assessment and so the matter  has been  referred to 
me. Mr P says he cannot accept he has been  treated  fairly;  the almost  50% increase in 
premium is extortionate. Homeserve has a private  monopoly and this premium increase  will 
see its revenue increase  by millions of pounds with very little extra outlay on its part. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance providers  are generally entitled to decide what cover  they are prepared to provide  
and decide the premium  that they are willing to charge for that. Homeserve has decided  to 
discontinue its policy for just water  supply pipes. It has changed the cover to include some 
internal pipework and with a higher indemnity  limit. The premium has gone up to reflect that 
wider cover;  and there is no evidence available to me that the premium Mr P has been 
asked for is not in line with what their customers have been  charged.  
I am not persuaded that it is not entitled  to do this. It is then for Mr P to decide if he wants to 
take out that policy or not. I do not have the power to order it to provide  the same  cover as 
previously or to require  it to reduce  the premium. 
While I can understand Mr Ps concerns about the availability of other similar  policies for 
him, I do not have the power to deal with any such wider issues. I can only determine  
whether Homeserve is entitled  to offer the policy it has and for the premium it has to Mr P. I 
am satisfied  that it is and, as Mr P has been  treated fairly in the sense that he has not been  
treated differently from any other  customers, I am to persuaded that Homeserve needs to do 
anything else for Mr P.
Ref: DRN51720252my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5172025