K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains he was mis-sold a monthly premium  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Although the policy was sold by Marks & Spencer,  Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz), have 
taken responsibility  for the sale. So to keep things  simple,  Ive only referred to Allianz  in this 
decision.
background
Mr W applied  for a personal reserve account in 1997 and it appears he was sold the PPI at 
the same  time in connection  with this account.
The PPI cost around 64p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve covered 
15% of the outstanding balance each month until the outstanding balance  had been cleared 
if Mr W was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  Mr W didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Based on Mr Ws age and employment, I think he was eligible under the policy.
Allianz should have made  it clear to Mr W that the PPI was optional and had to get his 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  
Allianz no longer  have  a copy of Mr Ws actual application form. But I dont think this is 
unreasonable given the length of time since the sale.   Allianz  have given us a sample 
application form which they say is indicative of what Mr W would  have completed  at the time 
of the sale. This form reflects  my understanding of how PPI was sold by this business 
around the time of the sale. 
This form had a separate section for PPI and Mr W would have had to complete  this section 
before PPI could have  been applied to his account. This included ticking a box to take PPI 
and entering the name and date of birth of the person to be insured. There  is nothing on this 
form which suggests PPI was presented as compulsory. 
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its more likely the PPI was presented  as optional and   
Mr W chose to take it out.
I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mr W. This means  Allianz didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for him. So for example, they wouldnt have had to take into account     
Ref: DRN51376862Mr Ws existing  repayment provisions. But they did have to provide Mr W with sufficient 
information for him to be able to decide whether or not to take PPI  in particular about the 
costs, benefits and main  exclusions in the policy. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr W wasnt as clear as it should  have been but I 
dont think better information  would have  put him off taking the PPI out. I say this because:
-The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ws sick pay and for a longer period of 
time. It would also have paid out if he lost his job. 
-Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected  by the main exclusions and restrictions in 
the policy which could  have  made  it difficult for him to make a successful claim.
-The policy was of a relatively low cost and I cant see that it was unaffordable  to him 
at the time of the sale.
-Mr W could  have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
So based  on what Ive seen, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Allianz  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5137686