K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1999, 2000  
and 2004 to protect further advances on a mortgage. Mr M and Miss J say Lloyds Bank PLC 
trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester PLC (C&G)  mis-sold them the policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Js case.
As Mr M was the only person covered by the PPI policies I have mainly considered his 
circumstances at the time of each sale.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
C&G had to make Mr M and Miss J aware  that the PPI policies were  optional and gain their 
consent before adding  them to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time 
Mr and Miss J applied  for their policies, but C&G have provided a copy  of the available 
paperwork. Mr M and Miss J completed  an application form for each sale of PPI that was 
separate to their applications for further borrowing, which  both of them  also signed 
separately to agreeing  to any further borrowing. So I think C&G made it clear that Mr M and 
Miss J didnt  have to take out the PPI policies and they chose to take them out  although  I 
can understand why they may not remember this.
Mr M and Miss J have told us that the policies werent recommended to them but having  
considered the paperwork  available from the time, and from what we know  about how C&G 
sold this type of policy I think its likely C&G  did recommend the policies. So it had to check 
that the PPI was right for Mr M. Mr M has told us he was entitled to good  sick pay when he 
took the PPI policies and could have relied on family  and friends  to help if Mr M and Miss J 
were unable to make  their repayments. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition  to Mr Ms 
sick pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr M and Miss J seem to have had a need 
for the cover. So I think the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr M and Miss J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Miss J have said, including  that they werent told 
they could obtain PPI elsewhere. But C&G were not required  to tell Mr M and Miss J about 
products available from other companies.  So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN59635892For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5963589