K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the replacement phone supplied by Great Lakes Insurance SE under 
a mobile phone insurance policy.
My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
 
background
Mrs P insured a relatives phone under the policy. When the phone was lost Great Lakes 
replaced it promptly. 
Mrs P told Great Lakes  the replacement handset was faulty. Great  Lakes offered to replace  
the phone  but wanted to inspect the handset  first, for any damage which would invalidate the 
warranty. Mrs P thought this was unreasonable, as her relative would  be without a phone. 
Great Lakes offered a £25 inconvenience payment but Mrs P wasnt happy with the 
response to her complaint and came  to us. 
Our investigator said Great Lakes had a replacement phone on hold ready to send out to 
Mrs P but she thought  it was reasonable that it have the chance  to inspect the phone first. 
She said Great Lakes  would send a pre-paid bag for Mrs P to return the phone  to it. 
Mrs P didnt agree and asked for a review. She said Great Lakes hadnt complied with its 
policy terms. It had sent her a faulty  phone but expected her to accept a repair to the phone 
it had provided. She said to resolve  the complaint shed like to cancel the policy with a 
refund of the policy premium and excess,  and compensation for being without a working 
phone while paying the full monthly cost for it to the network provider. She said she could 
make a claim to her household insurer, which gave new for old cover.  
Our investigator put Mrs Ps proposal to Great Lakes. It said she could cancel the policy and 
it wouldnt impact on the warranty on her phone. But it said it wouldnt refund the excess and 
policy premium as shed  used the policy. It hadnt  been able to inspect the phone to identify 
any faults or establish  if further damage  had been caused while in Mrs Ps possession which 
might void the warranty. It would welcome  the opportunity to inspect the phone and would 
issue a prompt replacement, as previously offered and would compensate  appropriately. It 
was very keen to resolve the issue for Mrs P but did need to see the phone first. 
Our investigator explained Great  Lakes response to Mrs P, and asked for any further 
comments by a given  date. Mrs P hasnt  responded and the complaint has come to me for 
review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Great Lakes was entitled to send Mrs P a refurbished phone under the policy terms. That 
replacement refurbished phone came with a warranty. I think  Great Lakes was entitled to 
inspect the replacement phone, to check it was faulty and hadnt been damaged before it 
replaced it. As our investigator has explained  I dont think Great  Lakes was saying it would 
repair the refurbished  phone, as Mrs P earlier thought.
Ref: DRN56889702I understand why Mrs P wanted a doorstep  replacement  but I think  Great  Lakes proposal  of 
sending her a reply paid padded envelope for its return  was reasonable. It had another 
phone ready  promptly  to send to her when it had inspected the phone. It says it remains  very 
willing to resolve  this with her but does want to inspect the phone before replacing  it. Great  
Lakes offered Mrs P £25 for inconvenience, which is open to her to accept. I think  this is fair. 
Mrs P claimed under her policy, and in common with most insurance policies this means 
shes not entitled to a refund of the policy premium if she decides to cancel the policy. I cant 
fairly say Great Lakes must refund the policy excess as shes  made a successful claim 
under the policy.  I know she disputes  the quality of the device, but I think  Great Lakes offer 
of £25 compensation and to replace the phone  if faulty on inspection is fair and reasonable. 
So I dont  require it to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because I think Great Lakes Insurance SE has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to resolve  it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5688970