K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr O bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint because:
I think Canada Square made  Mr O aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it. I think its most  likely the credit card and PPI were taken out 
online, which means Mr O wouldve ticked a yes box to indicate he wanted it  rather  
than a no box to show he didnt. 
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But Mr O doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based  on what  I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  Mr O from buying the PPI. 
While  Mr O had some  sick pay, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of this and for longer. 
The PPI wouldve  also covered Mr O if he became unemployed. 
While  Mr O couldve asked for help from friends and family, such  help wouldnt have 
been guaranteed as it would depend on their circumstances  at the time.  So this wouldnt 
be a reliable  source of funds. 
Ive taken into account Mr Os comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN53175932my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317593