complaint
Mr P complains that BISL Limited has unfairly declined to cover all of the damage  to his car
as part of his claim for accidental damage  under his motor insurance  policy.
background 
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached.
my provisional findings and the parties responses 
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to uphold the complaint in part and require BISL to 
pay Mr P £250 compensation for its referral of him to a credit  hire firm to handle his claim.
I said that Mr Ps claim was processed  under a credit hire and repair  agreement, which  is a 
contract with the credit  hire provider, separate from Mr Ps contract  of insurance. I have 
explained to Mr P that as this agreement didnt  involve  a claim against his insurer,  I cant 
consider his complaints about the claim against BISL. Consequently,  Ive only considered  
BISLs referral of Mr P to the credit  hire firm. I explained that complaints about credit  hire firms 
generally fall outside  of our services jurisdiction. 
I said we expect insurers to give policyholders clear  explanations about  the option  to use a 
credit hire firm to pursue  their claim.  This should  include what the service is and that its 
different to claiming  on their motor insurance  policy. The policyholder  should  also be told they 
can still choose to claim  on their own motor insurance policy if they wish.
From the recording of Mr Ps call with BISL when he reported  the accident  I didnt think  the 
options for pursuing his claim were well explained  to him. And had they been I thought he 
would have had his claim handled by BISL. BISL  has accepted this, but Mr P is unhappy  about  
many aspects of how his claim was handled.  I explained that this is a complaint that should be 
addressed to the credit hire firm. And that Mr P can take legal action if he wishes.
I thought that BISL had disadvantaged  Mr P by creating uncertainty and delay around the 
progress of his claim  that was avoidable  had it better explained the options for his claim.  But I 
didnt think any other  foreseeable losses have stemmed from the referral  as I think BISL tried 
to assist Mr P and the credit hire firm in resolving  his claim. I noted that all of the repairs that 
Mr P wanted  carried out have now been completed. For the distress  and inconvenience  that 
BISLs poor referral  caused Mr P I suggested  BISL  pay Mr P £250 compensation.
Mr P said he wasnt satisfied with the outcome of the provisional decision. He said he never 
had an agreement with the credit hire firm and dealt with BISL Mr P said nothing  about the 
credit hire firm was explained in the welcome  letter. Mr P said he had requested  BISL send him 
more information  about his options  but it hadnt  done so. 
Mr P said hes incurred  non-recovered  expenses including  keeping his other car on the road 
when he was entitled to a replacement car under the policy.  Mr P said his expenses  havent 
been considered and he wants to be repaid  all the money hes spent during the claim.
BISL said it was happy  with the provisional decision  and had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have carefully considered Mr Ps further  comments  and the claims experience  hes described. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld in part and for the 
Ref: DRN5054896reasons that I gave  in my provisional decision.  I realise this will be disappointing to Mr P and I 
will explain  the reasons  why I have reached this conclusion.
Mr P said he never had an agreement with the credit hire firm. However,  its clear  from his 
initial call with BISL that he did agree to use a credit  hire firm and this arrangement was put in 
place with further calls involving  Mr P shortly afterwards.
Mr P said he wanted more information from BISL  about his options in handling his accident 
claim, but this hadnt been forthcoming. I said in my provisional decision we expect insurers to 
give policyholders clear explanations about the option to use a credit hire firm. I remain  of the 
view that BISL didnt explain the options  very clearly to Mr P. And I think that this caused Mr P 
uncertainty and some  initial  delay about  his claim.  I havent seen any evidence of losses that 
have stemmed from BISLs actions in referring Mr P to the credit hire firm and I still think  BISL  
continued to try and assist  Mr P and the credit hire firm in resolving his claim. 
For the distress and inconvenience  that BISLs  poor referral caused Mr P I remain of the view 
that BISL should pay him £250  compensation. Im pleased that all of the repairs that Mr P 
wanted carried out on his car have now been  completed.
Mr P makes  the point  that hes incurred expenses throughout  his claim largely  to do with 
maintaining another car that he owns. He said this was because he hadnt always  been  
provided with a replacement car as was his entitlement under his policy. When  Mr P agreed  to 
use a credit hire firm to pursue his claim and agreed to having  its replacement car when his 
first went  in for repairs,  the responsibility  for his claim was no longer BISLs, it was the credit 
hire firms. 
Since, from the start of his claim, Mr P was no longer claiming on his policy  with BISL I cant 
consider his complaint about the poor handling of his claim against BISL. I have explained  to 
Mr P that he can bring a complaint  against the credit hire firm if he wishes,  or take other action 
he may wish to pursue.
I realise how strongly Mr P feels about  these issues and so I should remind  him that by 
rejecting this decision all other options  remain open  to him in pursuing  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, and within  my provisional decision,  it is my final decision 
that the complaint is upheld in part. I require BISL  Limited to pay Mr P £250 compensation for 
the impact of its poor service in not properly explaining his options to him about  the pursuit of 
his claim with another business.
Ref: DRN5054896Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
Ref: DRN5054896complaint
Mr P complains that BISL Limited has unfairly declined to cover all of the damage to his car as part 
of his claim for accidental damage under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr P was involved in an accident and claimed  for damage to his car and personal injuries. He 
made a claim to BISL. During his initial call BISLs agent said that Mr P could use the service of a 
credit hire firm to pursue  his claim. Mr P agreed to this and his claim  was then handled by this 
separate firm.
Mr P and the credit hire disagreed about the extent of the repairs that were due to the accident.  And 
Mr P was unhappy  about  the delays in handling his claim. Mr P complained to BISL  about  this, but it 
said it wouldnt pay for work on faults unrelated  to the accident and it said Mr P had agreed for his 
claim to be handled by the credit  hire firm. But Mr P said he wasnt aware that BISL no longer held 
responsibility for the progress of his claim and he said that BISL had continued  in contact with him. Mr 
P brought his complaint to our service.
BISL thought that our service shouldnt consider the complaint against it as Mr P had contracted with 
a credit hire firm for dealing with his claim.  Our investigator thought we could  consider the complaint 
against BISL for the actions of the credit hire firm. She said BISL hadnt made  it sufficiently clear to 
Mr P that the credit hire service wasnt part of his insurance policy. She thought  that BISL hadnt 
provided any information about the pros and cons of using a credit  hire firm to help Mr P make an 
informed choice as to his best option.
BISL accepted the investigators view that it hadnt made sufficiently clear to Mr P the distinction 
between its management of the claim and the credit hire firms,  and it agreed that our service could 
consider the merits  of Mr Ps complaint.
The credit  hire firm subsequently carried  out all of the repairs to Mr Ps car that he said had been 
caused by the accident. Mr P still complained about the delay and handling  of his claim. Mr P 
requested that an ombudsman review his complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P complains about the service and decisions  made about the repair of his car following  his 
claim. The claim was processed under  a credit  hire and repair agreement. This was a separate 
contract with the credit  hire provider. I have explained to Mr P that as these  agreements dont 
generally involve a claim against the consumers  own insurer,  they fall outside of our services 
jurisdiction and arent generally complaints that we can consider.
Ref: DRN5054896K822xAs Mr Ps claim was handled by the credit hire firm I cannot  consider his complaints about this 
against BISL. This means that I can only consider BISLs referral to the credit hire firm itself and 
not the subsequent handling of Mr Ps claim.
We expect  insurers  to give clear  explanations  to their policyholders about  the option  to use a credit 
hire firm to pursue their claim. This should include what the service is and that its separate  and 
different to claiming on their motor insurance policy. The policyholder  should  also be told they can 
still choose to claim on their own motor insurance policy  if they wish.
Ive seen the record  of Mr Ps call with BISL  when he reported the accident and listened  to the 
recording. And I dont think the options for pursuing  his claim were properly explained  to him. Had 
the options been properly  explained I think  he would have opted to have his claim handled by 
BISL. Im pleased that BISL has accepted this. Mr P is also unhappy about  many aspects  of how 
his claim was handled  but as Ive explained, this is a complaint that should  be addressed to the 
credit hire firm. Although  our service may not be able to consider a complaint  about the credit hire 
firm, it remains open to Mr P to take legal action if he wishes.
So far as BISLs role is concerned, I think it has disadvantaged Mr P by creating uncertainty and 
delay around the progress of his claim  that was avoidable had it explained  his options clearly to 
him from the start. But I dont think any other foreseeable losses have stemmed from its referral  as 
I think  it tried to assist  Mr P and the credit hire firm in resolving his claim. And Im pleased that all 
of the repairs that Mr P wanted carried out have now been  completed.  For the distress and 
inconvenience that BISLs poor referral caused Mr P I am minded to require BISL to pay him £250 
compensation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons I have  given above, I am minded  to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. I am 
minded to require BISL Limited to pay Mr P £250 compensation  for the impact of its poor 
service in not properly explaining his options to him about the pursuit  of his claim.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5054896