K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Monzo Bank  Ltd (Monzo)  following  a 
chargeback claim he raised regarding  a payment he made to an hotel chain (WB).  He is 
unhappy that the claim was rejected and the time in which  it took Monzo to deal with the 
matter.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr W and Monzo  so I wont  repeat  it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In December 2018 Mr W stayed in one of WBs  hotels, paying for his stay with his card.  He 
was unhappy  with the service he received from WB and so on the 2 January 2019 contacted 
Monzo asking them  to raise a chargeback  claim. He asked if Monzo would credit his account 
immediately in the interim, but they declined. They did however raise  the chargeback  claim 
that day and told Mr W that the process could take up to 8 weeks.
Mr W regularly  enquired  of Monzo as to the current position of his dispute and on the 26 
February they revised their estimate by telling him that the process might take up to 3 
months from the 2 January. On the 2 April Monzo brought  Mr W up to date by advising him 
that WB had disputed the claim.  Monzo  did however agree to raise the claim further  with 
MasterCard at arbitration. They advised Mr W that might take up to a further 45 days.  Mr W 
then asked Monzo if they could help him financially with a loan, but they declined  as his 
credit score was too low. The arbitration process  was completed on the 16 May but Mr W 
was not successful. 
Unhappy with the service  Mr W raised his complaint  to Monzo  but they didnt feel as though  
they had acted unfairly and didnt uphold it. Mr W then brought  his complaint to this service  
and the investigator  looked into the complaint but didnt think  Monzo  had acted unfairly. As 
Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court service. 
What I need to decide is whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr W. I take into account both Monzos  view and that of Mr W. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address  every  single point raised.  So, my aim is to reach  a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
When Mr W contacted Monzo they raised  a chargeback.  This is a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants  under the relevant card scheme  
rules. Monzo arent required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction to be reversed, but 
they can do so if they think  its likely to succeed. We generally we say its good practice for a 
Ref: DRN59872792card provider it to try one if theres a reasonable prospect  of success.  Equally,  if they think  
the chargeback  is likely to be rejected by the scheme provider then they dont have to raise 
it. So I can say that Monzo did act fairly  by actually  raising the dispute with MasterCard.
I agree  that the dispute took some time to resolve and that initially  Mr W was told it would be 
8 weeks. But he was told within those  8 weeks that it might also be up to 3 months, which it 
was. So I cant say Monzo acted unfairly here because it kept Mr W properly informed. And 
when the dispute was rejected Monzo raised the dispute to arbitration, which again I think 
demonstrates they were  acting fairly.  I can sympathise  with Mr W that the result  did not go 
his way, but that was not Monzos fault. 
I have noted that Mr W repeatedly asked Monzo  if they could help him financially, and when 
a bank knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are of course obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly.  They must deal positively with customers once they 
know they are in financial difficulty, and they can do a range of things, depending on the 
customers circumstances.
However that does  not mean  that Monzo were obliged to grant a loan to Mr W or to refund  
him in the interim pending the resolution of his complaint. What Monzo did was in my view 
fair and reasonable and positive. They considered his request but decided  that he did not 
meet the necessary criteria for a loan, and that to refund him in the interim could have put 
him in greater difficulties  at a later stage should  the chargeback claim be rejected, which it 
was. 
Monzo also explored other help for Mr W and suggested that StepChange or Turn2Us  might 
be of help. So I think Monzo thought carefully about his requests  for help and came to a 
sensible positive and sympathetic conclusion in the way they dealt  with Mr W.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision but I have come  to the same conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  So I cant say Monzo  have acted unfairly and Im 
not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Monzo Bank  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5987279