K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr K says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W originally  told us that he was told that he had to take out the MPPI in order  to get his 
mortgage  but later he then said that he didnt even know that hed taken out MPPI  - 
although I can understand why he may not remember  exactly  what happened as the sale 
took place over 20 years ago.
Nationwide isnt able to provide much paperwork from the time either  but this isnt unusual 
for a sale that took place in 1998, and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. But because of the lack of information,  I dont have enough to say that the MPPI 
wasnt presented as optional, so I cant  uphold  his complaint for this reason. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr K about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - so it would  
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the MPPI  would have  put him off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mr K.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said - including what hes said about being  made  
redundant in 2001, and that it wouldve  been  the ideal time to make a claim if hed known 
about the policy, and that he also had savings he couldve  used  to make his repayments.
I dont know why Mr K didnt make a claim on his policy,  but this doesnt mean it was mis-
sold at the time he took it out  he may wish to approach Nationwide  about  the possibility of 
making a backdated  claim. And the MPPI couldve protected the savings Mr K had for other  
expenses. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN51873902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5187390