compl aint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account  (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank
PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mr L took out a SAVA in November 2011  which incurred a fee of £3 per month for the first 
three months and then £9.95 per month thereafter. He had previously had a fee free 
account .
Mr L says the SAVA was mis-sold and has been  of no use to him.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ls complaint and thoug ht that Lloyds had not mis-sold the
SAVA. Mr L disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive consi dered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonab le in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handl e 
complaints abou t packaged bank accoun ts on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Just to give Mr L clarity about what this case covers, Ill explain that my decision here covers 
Mr Ls complaint abou t the sale of his SAVA. It does not cover Mr Ls complaint about the 
way Lloyds has handl ed his complaint. The latter would need to be raised with Lloyds first 
and then if not resolved would need  to come to this service as a further separate case.
Ill now go on to consi der the sale of the SAVA. Mr L says the SAVA was mis-sold. In my 
view, I dont agree and Ill explain why.
Mr L says that he had a discussi on with Lloyds in which he under stood that fee free 
account s were available and that various packaged bank account s were available with 
different prices and benefits.
So I think its clear Mr L that knew the SAVA was optional and he chose to take out the
SAVA based on Lloyds advice and information.
The core of Mr Ls complaint is that he says he was told that he needed a fee paying
account to get an overdraft or loan. And that the other bene fits of the SAVA have been of no 
use to him. So Ill consi der what Lloyds shoul d have done when they sold the SAVA to him.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN5679072As Lloyds advised Mr L to take out the SAVA it needed to not only provide him with sufficient 
information abou t the SAVA to make an informed choice. It also need ed to take adequate 
steps to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonabl e fit for Mr Ls circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of bene fits including European travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, sentinel card protection, and a £10 overdraft 
buffer.
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mr L. But Mr L does recall 
discussi ng the bene fits and I think he would have been interested in and eligible for them. I 
say this because  he did travel regularly, he had a car and the car breakdown cover benef ited 
him even if he wasnt the driver or owner of the broken down car. And he had a mobile 
phone.
Mr L says that the travel insurance only covered him and his partner and not his children. He 
says it also had an excess of £40. But the insurance could have been extended to cover his 
children for a small fee. And its not unusual for travel insurance to have a small excess as 
this policy did. Lloyds couldve offered Mr L a packaged bank account that would provide 
travel cover for his whole family but it provided other bene fits and the fee for this was nearly 
twice as much. So I think it was reasonab le for Lloyds to cons ider the SAVA was suitable for 
Mr L from this point of view.
Mr L says that Lloyds adviser told him that he had to take the SAVA to get an overdraft or 
loan. While I dont doub t his honest recollection, I think its more likely than not that hes 
mistaken in this, becaus e any form of lending is based on credit scoring and not on product 
purchase.  I think its more likely that Lloyds explained that the SAVA gave him preferential 
rates on an overdraft or lending rather than was a requirement. So I dont think its 
reasonab le to uphol d his complaint on this point.
Mr L could have closed the SAVA at any time, but he didnt for many years. And the fact that 
he didnt use the bene fits was a matter of choice for him.
So in my view Mr L knew he had a choice whether to take out the Sava or not and he chose 
to take it out. I think its more likely than not that Lloyds advice to Mr L was reasonabl e and 
the SAVA was suitable for him. And there was no information that he didnt receive that 
would likely have put him off it. So I dont think Mr L lost out by taking out the SAVA or 
through anything Lloyds may have done  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont upho ld Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financ ial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accep t or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2019 .
Richard Hill
ombudsman
2
Ref: DRN5679072