K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited mis-sold  him a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan.
background
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint on 24 January 2020. In summary,  I 
said I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I said Aviva had completed a calculation 
comparing the charges  applied  to Mr Os FSAVC  with those he would have incurred in an in-
house AVC.   Aviva  had capped the calculation in January 2004 and I said Id seen nothing 
to suggest this was unreasonable. I didnt  recommend Aviva pay Mr O compensation after 
Mr Os independent  financial  adviser, referred to as Company A, took over servicing rights of 
Mr Os FSAVC in 2004. I thought it was likely  Company A had a responsibility  to advise Mr O 
about the suitability of his FSAVC from that time onwards.
In my provisional decision,  I noted Aviva offered Mr O £500 compensation to recognise the 
trouble and upset  caused by the delay in calculating its previous redress offer.  I didnt think a 
further award was necessary and said Avivas  offer fairly compensates Mr O for the trouble  
and inconvenience  caused by the delay in handling  his complaint. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr O did not. In summary, Mr O said he 
contacted Company A, but it didnt hold any records for him. Mr O also said he thinks:
The managing  director  of Company A sold Mr O the FSAVC  when  he was an 
insurance agent for another insurance  provider,  which Aviva later took over. 
In 2000, prior to Company  A being  set up, the managing director transferred 
servicing rights for Mr Os FSAVC  to another company.
The managing  director  then set up Company A, along with a partner, and took Mr Os 
details with him. Mr O says its apparent no actual servicing  took place in 2003, 2004  
or 2005. 
Mr O said Aviva should  have conducted  a suitability review of the FSAVC in the 
1990s to explain  why its adviser didnt  make Mr O aware  of BTs in-house 
arrangements in 1992 and 1994.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed this complaint afresh, I 
dont intend to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  Ill explain 
why.
Mr O says it was actually  the director of Company A that sold him the FSAVC.  But I dont 
think that changes  the outcome of this complaint.  Aviva has already accepted responsibility 
for the sale of Mr Os FSAVC and accepted  he would likely have joined his employers in-
house AVC scheme.  I remain of the view Mr O would  likely have chosen to contribute to his 
employers AVC scheme instead  of buying extra years for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision.
Mr O says servicing rights may first have been transferred to another company in 2000.  But 
Aviva has only offered to cap redress from 2004, so Ive reconsidered whether this was fair. I 
know Mr O has reiterated he didnt see Company A in 2003,  and that it did little work or 
Ref: DRN53167402servicing on his FSAVC. But I remain of the view that the evidence available suggests  
Company A took over servicing rights for Mr Os FSAVC  at this time. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the letter provided by Aviva  contained  details  about  Mr Os policy which  
I would expect to see shared  with his advisor. Aviva also recorded Company As managing  
director as a designated individual on Mr Os policy. I still think this suggests Company A 
successfully took over servicing  rights and acted as Mr Os advisor  from 2004.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think its likely that  after this point  Company A had 
taken over responsibility for advising Mr O about  the suitability of his FSAVC. I dont agree 
that Mr O continued  to rely on the original advice  he received in 1992 from Aviva,  or that this 
would affect Company As likely responsibility  to advise  him about the suitability of the 
FSAVC after it took over servicing  rights for his FSAVC in 2004.  
Whilst Company A may no longer hold records for Mr O, I think it is still the correct  
respondent if Mr O has concerns about  the suitability of his FSAVC from the time 
Company A took on its servicing rights  I dont think Avivas  responsibility continued beyond 
this point. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Ive seen  nothing to suggest  Avivas calculation capping  
the redress in 2004 is unreasonable. So I think this offer is fair. I remain of the view that 
Avivas offer of £500 compensation fairly recognises the trouble and upset  caused  by the 
delay in calculating  its previous redress offer. So I leave it to Mr O to decide if he wishes  to 
accept Avivas offer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Ive not upheld this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53167403provisional decision  24 January 2020
complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  mis-sold  him a Free Standing Additional  
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC)  plan.
background
Mr O took out a FSAVC plan in 1992 after meeting  with one of Avivas representatives. 
The paperwork completed at the time of the sale confirms  Mr O was 36 years old, employed  and 
earning net pay of around £17,800 a year.  Hed been a member of his employers pension scheme 
since around 1978, and the normal retirement age under that scheme  was 60. 
Aviva recommended Mr O take out an FSAVC and his monthly contributions  were £66.66. And in 
1994, Mr O met Aviva  again. At this time, he increased  his contributions by £25 to £91.66 a month.  
Aviva said Mr O consulted a new independent financial adviser (IFA) in 2003.  Ill refer to the new IFA 
as Company A. The managing director of Company  A wrote to Aviva in December  2003.  The letter  
says it enclosed a servicing rights letter signed by Mr O. Company A also asked for more  information  
about the FSAVC, including its current charges,  whether the policy included  a guaranteed annuity 
rate, the current retirement  age and whether  benefits could be taken  early without penalty.  Company 
A also asked  for the current  fund value,  transfer value  and illustrations of the plans benefits  should  Mr 
O retire at 55, 60 or 65. Aviva responded to Company A in January  2004,  and provided  the 
information the company  had asked for. 
In June 2006,  Mr O complained to Aviva about charges  applied to his policy. Aviva provided its report  
of Mr Os complaint, which  lists his policy number. It also lists Company As managing director,  who 
wrote to Aviva in 2003, as Mr Os designated individual.
From November 2006, Mr Os monthly contributions were reduced to £12.82. And in early  2007,  Mr O 
ceased contributions to his FSAVC. 
In 2016, Mr O complained  to Aviva that his FSAVC was unsuitable for him, saying he wasnt made  aware 
the FSAVCs charges were  higher than those charged by an in-house AVC. He says he didnt want to take 
an investment risk and wasnt  aware his FSAVC was exposed to risk.
Aviva upheld  Mr Os complaint in 2017,  and offered to calculate  a possible redress payment, 
comparing the difference  in charges applied  to Mr Os FSAVC until January 2004 and the charges he 
would have incurred  in an in-house  AVC.  Aviva said it could reasonably have expected Mr Os IFA to 
raise concerns in 2004  following a review of the information  it provided   and wouldnt refund 
charges applied  to the FSAVC after this date.
Aviva said the added  years  option wouldnt  have been suitable for Mr O, as he wouldve  needed to 
pay escalating contributions based on a percentage of his earnings. Instead, Mr O chose to pay level 
contributions and didnt increase these.
In August 2018, Aviva offered  to pay Mr O £3,749.19,  plus an additional £500 to apologise  for the 
inconvenience, trouble  and upset caused by the delay  in calculating its redress. 
Mr O was unhappy  with Avivas offer  he said it was unreasonable for Aviva to refuse to refund 
charges applied  from 2004   as he didnt  see the IFA in 2004 and wasnt aware of its contact with 
Aviva. Mr O referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint and recommended it be upheld  in part. The 
investigator said at the time of the advice,  it was likely an AVC wouldve  looked more attractive  than 
buying added years as investment returns and annuity rates were much higher. The investigator 
Ref: DRN53167404noted the cost of buying  added years was generally calculated using a conservative set of 
assumptions, which would likely have made this option seem expensive.  So our investigator thought 
an in-house  AVC would have looked like a much better option than buying added years. Our 
investigator also said there was no evidence to suggest Mr O was risk adverse, noting he selected  a 
balanced managed fund for his FSAVC.  So our investigator thought  a money  purchase arrangement 
 such as an AVC  would be unsuitable for Mr O.
Our investigator didnt think Mr O wouldve  chosen to buy added years instead of contributing to his 
employers in-house AVC.  But he didnt  think it was fair for Aviva  to cap its offer of redress and 
recommended Aviva  recalculate its offer. Aviva didnt agree, so this was referred to me to review.
I provisionally  agreed with our investigator, and told Aviva I didnt  think the involvement of Company A 
meant Mr O would have become aware  he had cause to complain,  as he did in 2016.  I recommended  
Aviva recalculate  its offer of redress to include contributions  Mr O made  to his plan after Company A 
took over servicing rights of the FSAVC.  I also noted Aviva offered Mr O £500 compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset  caused by the delay  in calculating redress.  I told Aviva I thought this 
offer was fair  bearing in mind the inconvenience caused up to the point the complaint was referred 
to our service.  
Aviva didnt agree, saying  it didnt  have  further records  of Company A taking over servicing of the plan 
because the FSAVC  policy  ended 12 years ago. But Aviva said there was no reason  to doubt that 
Company A took on responsibility for Mr Os pension  savings. Aviva said Company As 2003 letter 
clearly shows  it was requesting that servicing  rights  be transferred to it and Avivas  response letter 
gave no indication this hadnt been possible.  Aviva said if Company A was just wanting to obtain 
information, it would have only needed  to provide  a letter  of authority and thered  be no need to 
request the servicing be transferred. Aviva said this was important because
by taking on the servicing of the plans, the IFA would  not just have been providing or 
passing on information to [Mr O]. They had a responsibility to ensure his pension  savings 
arrangements were still suitable for him at that point and this is the role they would  have 
been receiving commission to fulfil. The level of information they requested would  have 
enabled them make  such an assessment.  Whether or not they did so isnt something I 
can comment  on but it doesnt alter the fact it was their duty to do so.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not minded to uphold Mr Os complaint. I realise  
my decision  is likely  to disappoint Mr O, but Ill explain my reasons. 
Aviva has accepted that it didnt give Mr O enough  information  about  his in-house options during  the 
sale of the FSAVC  plan. And its already  offered  redress to reflect  the fact that it thinks  Mr O would 
have opted to join his employers in-house AVC.  
I dont think Mr O would have bought added years instead of contributing to his employers in-house  
AVC scheme. If Mr O had been offered the option of contributing to his employers AVC or buying  a 
few added  years with an equivalent contribution, it would  probably have been  shown that the 
projected benefits from the AVC would be greater than the benefits  of purchasing added  years. So its 
difficult to say now that Mr O would  definitely have considered it the cost effective or affordable option, 
when compared with the projected benefits available from investing  in the AVC plan. 
Its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know Mr O may have been better off buying  added years.  
This is because investment returns achieved were much lower than expected.  But as Ive explained 
above, the AVC plan would  have  been projected to provide greater benefits than added  years at the time 
of advice, and I cant use hindsight when making my decision. Theres no evidence to suggest  Mr O was 
risk averse or needed a guarantee of his capital.
Ref: DRN53167405Further, an AVC would have  offered  Mr O greater  flexibility  than buying added years. If Mr O had 
bought added  years, he would have had to give up a set percentage of his salary  until retirement, 
which would have increased as Mr Os salary  increased  over the years. Mr O opted  not to 
automatically increase his contributions to his FSAVC  annually when he took out the plan and 
reviewed his contributions in 1994. And he stopped contributing to his FSAVC plan in 2007.  
Taking all the available evidence into account, I am not persuaded Mr O would have purchased 
added years from his employers occupational pension  scheme. If he had been given enough  
information by Aviva, I think Mr O would  have chosen to make contributions to his employers AVC 
scheme instead. So Ive gone on to think about whether Avivas offer to put things right is fair. And 
having reconsidered the arguments presented by Aviva and Mr O, I think  Avivas  loss assessment is 
fair. Ill explain why.
Aviva no longer holds a copy of the servicing rights letter signed by Mr O, which  was referred to in 
Company As letter of December 2003.  But I think the evidence available suggests   Company  A took 
over servicing  rights for Mr Os FSAVC at this time. The letter provided by Aviva contained details 
about Mr Os policy which I would expect to see shared with his advisor. Aviva also recorded  
Company As managing director  as a designated individual on Mr Os policy. I think this suggests 
Company A successfully  took over servicing  rights and acted  as Mr Os advisor from 2004.  I think  its 
likely that  after this point  Company A had taken  over responsibility for advising  Mr O about the 
suitability of his FSAVC. I dont agree that Mr O continued to rely on the original advice he received in 
1992 from Aviva, or that this would affect Company  As likely responsibility to advise him about the 
suitability of the FSAVC after it took over servicing rights  for his FSAVC in 2004.  
I accept Mr O cant recall seeing Company A in 2004.  His representative has said Mr O has never  
heard of Company  A, and that the managing director may have transferred the servicing  
arrangements without  Mr O knowing when the managing  director  changed employment from another  
IFA firm. But as Ive said above, I think its likely Company A took on servicing  rights for the FSAVC 
and I think its likely  Company A had a responsibility to advise him on the suitability  of the FSAVC 
from this point. If Mr O has concerns about the suitability of his FSAVC from the time Company A took 
on its servicing rights, he should address these to Company A directly.   
Aviva has completed  a calculation comparing the charges applied to Mr Os FSAVC until January 
2004 and the charges  he would have incurred in an in-house AVC. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Avivas calculation  capping the redress in 2004 is unreasonable. So I think this offer is fair.
I note Aviva offered  Mr O £500 compensation to recognise the trouble  and upset  caused by the delay 
in calculating its previous redress offer. Ive made no further award,  as I think Avivas offer fairly 
compensates Mr O for the trouble and inconvenience caused by the delay.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5316740