K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a secured loan. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. 
There are a couple of things I need to explain before I set out the reasons for my decision.  I 
know that when  BOS sold PPI to Miss P, it was trading as Halifax.  But to keep things simple, 
Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
I can also see that Miss P has brought  a number of complaints to us about BOS. To be 
clear, this decision is about the PPI connected to the secured loan that Miss P applied for in 
April 1998 only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss P, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that the PPI was sold during a meeting between Miss P and BOS. I cant  
know what was said during that meeting,  so to help me decide whats  likely  to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Miss P told us about it. And Ive also considered  the 
paperwork that is available from that time. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Miss P would have known the PPI was optional. 
I can see from the loan agreement that shed  ticked a box to say she wanted  a policy.  There 
was an equally prominent box to be ticked if she didnt  want  it. As I said above, this loan was 
secured on Miss Ps home  and it looks as though the agreement  had to be witnessed. So I 
think Miss P would have  had the chance to consider this document  carefully. And if she 
hadnt agreed to PPI, I think  shed have queried  it at the time. 
I think the form is clear that there was a choice about buying cover as it asks whether Miss P 
wants PPI. It follows  that I think the person selling the cover to Miss P would have also 
made that clear. So Im satisfied Miss P would have known that the policy wasnt a condition 
of her mortgage. 
BOS advised  Miss P to buy this cover. So it had to make  sure it was suitable  for her needs. 
To help me decide about suitability, Ive looked  at what Miss P told us about her personal 
circumstances. And Ive considered the terms and conditions  of the policy.  BOS  also had to 
give Miss P enough information about the PPI so she could decide for herself whether it was 
a good fit for her needs.  
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim,  Miss Ps loan repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months if shed  been  made redundant. Shed have been covered for up 
to five years  if she was too unwell to work. 
Ref: DRN58804752Miss P told us that she would have only received statutory sick pay from her employer if she 
was unwell. So I think the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to and for significantly longer 
than the cover she had in place from work.  And Miss P told us she didnt have any other 
means of making  her loan repayments  if she was out of work. I think  it is important to 
reiterate that this loan was secured on Miss Ps home. And that home was at significant  risk 
if she fell behind with those repayments. 
I understand that Miss P was in good  health when she bought this cover. And so I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the exclusions about medical  conditions.  I havent seen 
anything unusual about her employment  circumstances that would have stopped her from 
making a successful claim if she needed to. With all of this in mind, I think  the cover  probably 
was suitable for her. 
Even so, I accept its possible that BOS didnt tell Miss P everything  it should have done 
about the PPI. But Ive set out above  how I think PPI might have been helpful  for her if she 
was out of work. And I think she probably  chose to buy this policy  at the time  so it looks  
like she wanted this type of cover. Overall, I dont  think shed have  acted differently if shed 
been given more or better information  about the policy. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint  Miss P, but I havent upheld  her complaint. I dont 
need to tell BOS  to take any further  action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5880475