K820x#13complaint
Mr S has complained that NRAM  Limited  mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1993  alongside  a mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.  
Mr S first said in his PPI questionnaire that he felt obliged to take out the insurance after the 
mortgage was agreed.  But this is difficult to reconcile with his later evidence that he was told 
he had to take out the cover and that the mortgage wouldnt be granted  if he didnt. Ive 
taken into account  that the PPI was sold around  26 years ago  which  might  explain why 
Mr Ss recollection is inconsistent. 
I accept NRAM hasnt  been able to provide a copy  of the PPI application that Mr S 
completed. But in cases  where  there  is limited  or no evidence from the point of sale, I have 
to make a decision based  on what I think is more likely  to have happened. NRAM says it 
wouldve presented  the PPI as optional and that Mr S wouldve had the option to decline it. 
And I think its possible that Mr S was told the policy was optional  but doesnt  remember  this 
now. Mr S also says that the documents were completed by the NRAM sales  representative, 
and that he was just told where to sign. I accept that the documents  may have been 
completed by the NRAM sales representative,  but as this was a significant financial 
commitment I think its likely Mr S wouldve checked through the information  before signing to 
agree to it. 
Ive considered what both parties have said, but in the absence  of any evidence to support 
what Mr S has said, I dont think there  is enough evidence  for me to decide  that NRAM didnt  
make it clear  that Mr S had a choice about  the PPI. And as the PPI was added  to his 
mortgage account, I think its likely he chose to take it out. 
Mr S has also said that he felt forced to take out the PPI  so I think hes saying he was 
pressured into taking  out PPI. But Mr S hasnt told us what happened  to make him feel 
pressured, and I havent seen any evidence  to support what  hes said.  So I cant  fairly and 
reasonably uphold the complaint on this point. 
NRAM hasnt been able to say whether or not it advised Mr S to take out the policy.  Mr S 
says NRAM did provide him with advice. As things stand, there isnt enough information  to 
determine this point. But being  able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had 
NRAM recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable recommendation to have 
made for the reasons  I set out below.  As a result,  Ive considered the complaint  as an 
advised sale.
As a recommended  sale NRAM  had to check that the PPI was right for Mr S  and based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
Ref: DRN56730212affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Mr S has said he wouldve only received statutory sick pay if he was off work sick but he 
wouldve been entitled to some redundancy pay from his employer. He also said he didnt 
have any other means of making his repayments  if he was off work sick or lost his job. But 
upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, on top of his 
redundancy pay. So these  funds wouldve been  free to use for other expenses.  And his 
mortgage was a big financial commitment, so I think he wouldve been interested  in 
protecting his mortgage payments in the event  he was suddenly unable  to work. So I dont 
think any recommendation to take out the policy wouldve been unsuitable.
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
I think its possible that NRAM  didnt  do things as it shouldve done  when it sold the policy.  
But for the reasons Ive given, I think its unlikely  Mr S wouldve been affected  by any failings 
 or that he wouldve  acted any differently.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So NRAM  doesnt  need to refund everything  
Mr S paid for it. But NRAM has already offered to give Mr S back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  NRAM will make  arrangements to pay Mr S 
now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5673021