K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs R took out PPI during a meeting with HSBC  to cover  each  of their 
incomes. Mr and Mrs R say the PPI provided  50% of their mortgage payments in the event 
Mr R couldnt work  through accident or sickness or lost his job, or 50% if Mrs R couldnt  work 
through accident or sickness or lost her job. The policy provided 100% of their mortgage 
payments if both couldnt work.
The policy cost £42 a month and it provided  a 100% benefit to approximately match Mr and 
Mrs Rs monthly  mortgage payment of £700  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs R disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
HSBC says this was an advised  sale. This means  HSBC not only had to provide Mr and Mrs 
R with good enough information  about the policy so they could make  an informed decision 
about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  based on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did HSBC make  it clear to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was taken  out in May 2006. Mr and Mrs R say they were  pressured into 
taking the PPI and that they were  told it would help their mortgage  application  to be 
accepted.
Mrs and Mrs R have provided  a copy of the mortgage  offer letter they received in January 
2006, and HSBC has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application form which  
they signed in February  2006.  
I dont know what was said at the time so the only indication I have of what  happened is 
what is shown on the two documents. I see that the adviser recommended  the PPI and that 
Mr and Mrs R initially said they didnt need it. But in my view both documents  refer to the PPI 
as optional and neither  shows  the PPI as a condition of the mortgage. And Mr and Mrs R 
have signed the mortgage application form requesting the optional  PPI.
Ref: DRN53063462So I think it is more likely  than not HSBC presented the policy  to Mr and Mrs R as optional  
and they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs R properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs R lost out?
I dont know what HSBC  said when  it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. I also dont 
know what information Mr and Mrs R were given  about PPI. I can see that the cost of the 
policy is shown separately on the Mortgage offer. But beyond  that I dont know whether the 
policys benefits were  explained to them or if they were told about the significant exclusions 
and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs R agreed to take the cover out knowing 
very little about it, but I dont know if they received  everything they needed  to know  to allow  
them to make an informed  decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when HSBC 
recommended to Mr and Mrs R that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs R may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances  and needs at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs R would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if HSBC had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs R were eligible for their cover and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs R were employed  and in good health  at the time, so it doesnt appear  
they would  have been affected by any of the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover 
such as existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr and Mrs R both had income  and 3-6 months  sick pay entitlement from their 
employers. Mr R had 3 months  redundancy pay entitlement.  These could have 
helped them make the mortgage  payments if either was off work ill or if Mr R had lost 
his job. But they had no savings and the policy would  have  paid out in addition  to any 
sick or redundancy  pay and for up to 12 months for each claim. So I think Mr and Mrs 
R had a need for their cover, that it would  have been  useful to them  if either had 
found themselves  unable  to work  and it would have reduced the need to rely on their 
families to help them.  The PPI could have helped them financially at what  would be a 
difficult time - it could have helped  them  protect their home.
The cost of the PPI was shown on the mortgage offer. But even if theyd missed this, 
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at under £42 per month it appears to have been affordable. And as 
they were paying for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it without further  cost if at 
any stage their situation changed or they no longer  wanted  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs R may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by HSBC in its dealings  with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the PPI and they would have been in the 
Ref: DRN53063463same position if HSBC had done more and properly advised and informed them - I think they 
would have still taken  out the PPI.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs R have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2019. 
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5306346