K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  a claim made  under their home  insurance  for storm damage has 
been declined  by Ageas  Insurance  Limited  (Ageas).
background
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs H contacted Ageas to make a claim for storm damage to their 
roof. 
During the call Ageas  checked the weather  conditions. They said the wind speeds werent  
strong enough to be a storm,  so they wouldnt be able to consider a claim. 
Mr H said there were  tradesmen present carrying out a permanent  repair  to the roof. He said 
he wasnt willing for a temporary repair to be carried  out, in case further damage was 
caused. Ageas said that even if they were to send someone out, repairs  would have been 
completed so they wouldnt  be able to validate  the claim.
Mr H complained to Ageas who said their decision to decline  the claim was correct because 
the wind speeds werent strong enough  to be considered a storm.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome, so he complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Ageas  were wrong  to decline the claim. In his opinion  there were storm 
conditions, and the damage  was consistent with storm  damage. However  he didnt think it 
had been shown that the damage  being claimed  for had been caused by the weather  at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator  and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
As our investigator has said, when  we consider complaints for storm damage, we follow a 
set approach. There are three questions which need  to be considered  and if all the answers 
are yes a claim  will likely succeed. But if any of the answers are no then its likely the claim  
will fail.
were there storm conditions?
When Mr H called to report the damage, Ageas checked wind records  for the area and said 
these reached 48mph.  Our investigator  also looked  at weather records which also showed  
the same.
I can see the weather  checks  carried out by Ageas and our investigator were  using weather 
stations some distance from Mr and Mrs Hs property. So the actual weather in the area 
could be considerably different.
Ref: DRN50139152Mr and Mrs H provided data from the Met office which  recorded  a maximum wind speed of 
58mph, and this appears to be for their postcode, so potentially closer  than the other 
weather stations.
In any case, it isnt in dispute that the wind speeds reached at least  48mph. And I consider 
this could be storm conditions as structural damage  could arise  in winds  of these speeds. 
Ageas has said the weather conditions need  to be more than 55mph for it to be considered  a 
storm as this is how it is defined in the policy. However having looked  at the policy  terms and 
conditions, this isnt mentioned. Even  if it were, Im not sure I would regard  that as fair or 
reasonable. 
So, Im satisfied there was a storm. And I need  to consider the two additional questions that 
we look at when  reviewing storm damage claims.
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr and Mrs H reported damage  to the roof. They said that both the felt and boards 
underneath had been ripped off during the high winds. This type of damage,  given the right 
conditions, is consistent with storm damage. 
was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
When insurance claims are made, we think its fair and reasonable for the insurer to expect 
the customer to demonstrate that the losses theyre claiming for were caused by an insured 
event (in this case, the stormy weather). 
If the insurer then wants  to claim that an exclusion  applies or a condition wasnt met, the 
onus switches to them  they have to show the exclusion or condition  applies.
Often when a storm damage claim is made,  an insurer will send one of its agents to inspect 
the damage and validate  the claim. That didnt happen in this case. In part this was because  
Ageas said the weather didnt reach the required  speeds to be considered storm damage  
which I dont agree with.
However, I have listened to the call recording from when the claim was reported. Mr H said 
that he had contractors at his property about to carry  out a permanent  repair. He said he 
wasnt prepared for a temporary repair to be carried out, in case  the weather  became worse 
and caused further damage.
When being told this, Ageas  said that even if they were to send someone out, the works 
would have already been completed,  so they wouldnt  be able to inspect  the damage or 
validate the claim.
Whilst it would be reasonable for Ageas to send someone out to inspect the damage, I 
wouldnt expect this to be on the same day of reporting. As Mr H had already said 
permanent repairs were  being carried out, and Ageas had already notified him they wouldnt 
be able to validate the damage, I dont think it would have  changed the position if Ageas had 
sent someone out.
Ive seen the invoice for Mr and Mrs Hs repairs. Whilst this lists the repairs  carried out, it 
doesnt demonstrate that the weather conditions at the time were the main  cause  of damage 
being claimed for.
Ref: DRN50139153In addition to this, when reporting  the loss to Ageas, Mr and Mrs H said the roof had been in 
place when they moved into the property more than nine years previously. And it hadnt had 
any maintenance work since then. 
Generally flat roofs have a lifespan  of 10-15 years, but this is also affected by a number of 
factors. Mr and Mrs Hs roof had been  in place  for at least nine years  and hadnt been  
maintained. So whilst  the damage  could  have been  caused by the storm, its also possible  
if not more likely - the weather simply highlighted existing issues with the roof.
As Ive said,  when making a claim the onus is on the customer  to show their losses  were 
caused by the insured event (the storm).  Mr and Mrs H havent done that in this case. There 
are no reports  to show the roof was in good  repair prior to the storm or that the storm was 
the main cause of the damage.
So, whilst Im satisfied  there were storm conditions at the time and the damage is consistent 
with this, Im unable to say the storm was the main cause of damage, or ask Ageas to pay 
the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5013915