K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank  PLC wont refund withdrawals he says he didnt make  from 
his account.
background
Mr H contacted Metro Bank  to say that he didnt  make  three  cash  withdrawals from the same  
cashpoint machine on 23 September 2018. These  were for £150  at 00:47; for £80 at 03:17 
and for £60 at 07:46. Mr H says he realised what had happened  when he tried to withdraw  
cash himself later that day and was told that he had reached the withdrawal limit and he was 
only able to take out £10. Mr H told Metro  Bank  that he thought  his card had been cloned.
Metro Bank  didnt agree and said it wouldnt refund his money. The withdrawals were made 
when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct  PIN entered.  There had been 
previous transactions at the same location.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and Mr H refunded £290. He 
said that:
-These payments  were made  with the genuine  card so there was no evidence that the 
card had been cloned.
-He didnt think that Mr H had authorised these payments. He had mobility and health 
issues. And it was unlikely he would have gone to the cash  point in the early hours of 
the morning. 
-Mr H said he was very security conscious and kept the card close to him while  he 
slept. He had reported a previous  fraud  to Metro  Bank which  wasnt  paid out. And it 
wasnt likely he would  have shared his details with anyone.
-Mr H had explained he now had some doubts about his lodgers  and that sometimes 
he had been accompanied  by one of them to cash machines  as he had been 
mugged in the past. It was possible that his PIN had been seen when he had been 
entering it.
-It was most likely that his card had been  taken  to make the withdrawals  and then 
replaced. It was possible  that this had been going on for sometime  but due to the 
lack of clarity and poor memory  of Mr H about any other payments he had only 
considered the ones  on 23 September  2018 that Mr H had specifically identified  as 
fraudulent.
-He didnt think Mr H had been  grossly negligent  with his security  details.
Metro Bank  asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. It pointed  out that     
Mr H had been inconsistent in what hed said and it didnt find that the idea that he had been  
shoulder surfed for his PIN plausible. It said it thought as he was security  conscious he 
wouldnt have allowed anyone to see his PIN. Hed have been  negligent if hed let his lodger 
see this. Metro Bank said that the shop where  the cashpoint was located was five minutes 
from Mr Hs house and he had made  other payments there.  It didnt see the location  of the 
shop as relevant  to Mr H being able to complete these transactions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59246872I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 (PSR) in considering  
this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised  if it was consented  to. So 
its not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if these payments 
werent authorised  Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Mr H acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping his details safe.  Negligence is often referred to as a failure to 
exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable  to conclude, the use of gross 
negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly 
beyond ordinary negligence.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr H either authorise  the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card?
-If he didnt then did he take sufficient care of his personal security  information?
I agree  with what our investigators said about  the authentication  of these payments. Based 
on the available evidence which is limited now given the passage  of time Im satisfied that 
these cashpoint withdrawals were made with the genuine card. And weve not seen 
evidence of the chip on a card being  cloned in everyday use.
I need to think  about  whether Mr H consented to these payments. He accepts  that his 
memory is poor. He suspects other  payments made on his account including  at the same  
location arent genuine but to his credit hes accepted that he wouldnt be able to say 
whether he made them or not. So we are only looking  at the ones on 23 September 2018 
which he clearly disputed.
From the information Ive seen online the cashpoint was about 0.3 miles from his house and 
it would  take an average person six minutes to walk there. As Ive said I dont think Mr H 
accepts he had made all the previous ones. But I think there is a significant difference  when 
considering these withdrawals  two of which took place  in the early hours of the morning. 
Having listened  to calls between Mr H and Metro Bank and considered  his statements I find 
he has given a credible  and believable account of his health issues and that he is vulnerable.  
And I think it highly unlikely he would be in a position to go back and forth to this location  
three times especially during the early  hours  of that day.
That doesnt  rule out him consenting to someone  making these withdrawals on his behalf. 
But his concern about security is obvious and I dont find this scenario  likely taking into 
account the nature of these payments. And I note that he went  to the bank the next day to 
make a genuine withdrawal and says he then discovered what happened. I dont find it 
implausible that his card could have been  taken without  him knowing by a person  living  in his 
home even  though he said it was kept under his pillow  at night and in a security  belt during 
the day. Or that this person couldnt  have discovered his PIN when accompanying him to 
make a withdrawal having breached his trust and exploited his clear concerns about the 
security of his account.
So I find the most likely explanation  to be that he didnt authorise  these  payments.
Mr H was reasonably required under the terms and conditions of his account with Metro  
Bank to keep his personal security information safe. He said he had been mugged  before. 
Ref: DRN59246873And he suspected  his card had been  cloned and reported this in May 2018 to Metro Bank. In 
the circumstances I dont think a reasonable person would think him arranging to be 
accompanied when he took out money  to be an inappropriate thing to do. I cant know how 
he protected his PIN at that time but as he clearly  trusted the person he was with I think  that 
it would  likely have been possible  for his PIN to be observed in this way. There may be a 
case for saying that was negligent but I find it far from gross negligence on his part.
As a result I find that Metro Bank should  refund all this money. Under  the PSR Mr H could 
have been made responsible in certain  circumstances  for the first £35 of any loss. But Ive 
seen nothing in the terms and conditions  of the account to say that Metro Bank has adopted 
that requirement.
I asked our investigator to tell Metro Bank I was intending to require it to pay him simple 
interest at eight per cent from the time it was withdrawn to the time it is refunded and it didnt 
make any comment  about this. I dont think any payment for distress is warranted  as I find 
that the fraudster  was responsible for that distress.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro  Bank  Plc to:
1)Pay Mr H £290.
2)Pay Mr H simple interest of eight percent on the refund from the date of the 
withdrawal until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5924687