K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined Mrs Ts personal accident 
claim under their travel insurance and about UKIs  service.
The parties will see that Mr T has been  added as a complainant, as he is the policyholder.
background
Mr and Mrs T have  travel  insurance through Mr Ts bank account. Unfortunately Mrs T lost 
her sight  in one eye due to an infection  caused by her contact  lens being stuck  in her eye 
while she was on holiday. She received some treatment while abroad and I understand UKI 
paid her claim for those  costs.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that UKI wont pay the £25,000 benefit  for her loss of sight under  
the personal accident section of the travel insurance policy.
UKI said the policy didnt  cover the claim as the circumstances of Mrs Ts sight  loss didnt  
meet the following  definition  of bodily injury under the policy terms:
Bodily Injury
A bodily injury is an injury  resulting solely and directly from accidental,  outward, 
violent and visible means (including  direct  exposure to the elements).
UKI accepted there were  errors in its decline letter and in a call to Mr T it hadnt explained 
why it declined the claim. It paid £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused Mr and Mrs T by its poor service.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us. They want UKI to pay the personal accident  claim.
Our investigator thought UKI fairly  declined the claim. He said the requirement  of the bodily 
injury occurring by violent means hadnt  been met. He also said as UKI had paid 
compensation for its poor service he hadnt looked into that matter  further.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans  decision. In summary they said:
as violent meant 'unlawful physical force' that meant the policy would  never pay a 
claim unless Mrs T had been  subject to an unlawful act by a third party,  so all cases 
couldnt require  violence
'violent' doesnt apply in her case but as three of the criteria in the definition had been 
met the claim should be paid as a claim doesnt  have to meet  all the criteria to be 
successful
if the cause of the claim  was the problem,  and not the outcome, why did UKI say it 
would need to wait for the outcome of her medical treatment  before it could say if the 
policy would pay. The cause was known at the beginning so UKI could have told 
them at the start the claim would be declined. That shows  UKIs  poor  level of 
knowledge and service which they want us to look into
Mrs Ts loss of sight was caused  by a complex and unique set of circumstances but it 
was an accident.  They thought the claim wasnt being paid due to the complexity  and 
uniqueness of the events.
Ref: DRN53682812my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to partly uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think  it did. But 
I dont think UKIs compensation of £100 was enough for the distress  and inconvenience  it 
caused Mr and Mrs T by its poor service.
the claim
The personal accident section of the policy says UKI will pay a benefit of £25,000 for loss of 
sight if during a journey,  you sustain  bodily injury which shall solely  and independently of 
any other cause, result  within 24 months in the loss of sight. Loss  of sight  is defined  by the 
policy and that isnt in dispute.
The issue  I have to decide is whether the circumstances  of Mrs Ts claim meet the policy 
definition of bodily injury that Ive detailed above. The definition  requires that specific criteria 
are met. Ill consider each of the criteria.
The policy doesnt  define accident, outward  violent  or visible. Where  a word isnt defined 
its reasonable for me to apply a words every  day and commonly-used meaning.
We generally say that accident is an unforeseen or unexpected  and unfortunate occurrence.  
Mrs T put the contact  lens in her eye but theres no evidence that suggests it was 
foreseeable or expected  that the lens would  get stuck in her eye. So I think Mrs Ts sight  loss 
was an accident  as the policy requires.  But I also need to consider if the other criteria are 
met.
I think the contact lens was an outward object as it was external to Mrs Ts body even 
though it was sitting on her eye. The contact lens would have been seen so it was visible.
However, I dont think Mrs Ts loss of sight was caused by violent means.  Violent has 
several meanings depending on the context. Mr and Mrs T say it means  'unlawful  physical 
force'. But physical  force doesnt have to be unlawful to be violent. I would  think it unfair for 
an insurer to limit claims just to unlawful physical force  as that would  be much too restrictive, 
unless a policy had made it very clear there was such  a restricted definition.
Collins Dictionary says a violent event is something that happens suddenly and with great 
force. Other  definitions generally say that violent is physical  or great force  and I think  those 
elements need  to be in a violent event.
I dont think Mrs T lost her sight by violent means. The evidence is the loss was caused  by 
an infection due to her stuck contact lens. I cant reasonably say that it was caused by 
violent means, in the common understanding of the word.
All four of the criteria have to be present to meet the definition  of bodily injury, and thats not 
so in Mrs Ts case. Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but I think UKI did fairly and 
reasonably decline  the claim.
As I don't think the claim meets the definition of bodily injury  as required, I dont need  to 
consider whether any policy  exclusions  would  have applied even if the bodily injury definition  
had been met.
Ref: DRN53682813service
Mr and Mrs T say there were errors in UKIs letter declining the claim, it told them  to wait to 
make a claim and when Mr T spoke to UKIs  representative on the phone  about why the 
claim was declined the representative  was out of his depth. Mr T says he should  have been 
put through to someone who knew what they were talking about.
UKI accepts  there were errors  in its letter, which would  have been annoying for Mr and 
Mrs T, although  the errors didnt affect the reasons for UKI's decline of the claim.
When Mr T phoned  UKI to tell it his wife was going to lose her eyesight  I think UKI 
unnecessarily and unreasonably  told Mr T that it could consider a personal accident claim 
once her eye operation  had taken place and permanent slight  loss confirmed. When  Mr T 
asked about making  a claim UKI should  have reasonably known that given the cause of 
Mrs T's sight loss the claim wouldnt  be covered. I think UKI unnecessarily raised Mr and 
Mrs T's expectations that the claim would  be covered. I do note UKI declined the claim later 
that same  month so I accept the wait for UKIs decision  wasnt unreasonably long.
Mr T is very unhappy about  how UKI dealt  with the call to discuss the claim decline. I see 
from UKIs  own notes when it listened  to the call that it accepts its representative  was unsure 
of the information he was giving Mr T and told Mr T that he didnt understand the decision 
which was made by someone else. UKIs  representative didnt offer to transfer the call to 
another representative who would  have been able to properly explain why it had declined  the 
claim, which should have reasonably happened.
UKI was the expert in the call and Mr T had a reasonable expectation that it would be able to 
explain its decision about a very sensitive matter.  Mrs T was going through  a life changing 
event of expectedly  losing  her sight in one eye. From UKIs notes its clear  she and Mr T 
were already  very distressed and vulnerable. I think UKIs inability in that call to explain its 
decision exacerbated their distress.
I dont think £100  compensation  is enough  to acknowledge the distress  and inconvenience 
UKI caused both Mr and Mrs T by its poor service,  which could easily have  been  avoided. 
I think an additional £300 compensation, so £400  in total, is a fair amount.
developments since my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They made  a subject 
access request and we sent the required information  to them. In summary Mr and Mrs T 
said:
my interpretation of 'accident' was based  just on my interpretation of whats  an 
accident
my interpretation of violent event shows their appeal is based on interpretation of 
the policy wording. They thought there were lots of ways to interpret the terms of the 
policy and where  terms are open  to interpretation I should find in favour of the 
consumer. They  said Id not given enough consideration to their interpretation of the 
policy wording  
Ref: DRN53682814theres  nothing in the policy which says all the criteria must be met but my provisional  
decision focused on whether all the criteria was met. They said Id interpreted each 
term to suit UKI with no reasonable basis for such interpretation
most  people would think the word violent means  something unlawful and to be 
scared of. If violent just meant  with force the policy should say that 
theyd  had external advice on the matter and they were  confident  their interpretation 
of the policy wording  applied to Mrs Ts accident
Id said UKI 'unreasonably' and 'unnecessarily' raised expectations.  They said that 
was emotive language and had no place in a discussion which should be centred 
solely on the definitions of policy as the law would interpret
they had been through a life changing event and my proposed award of £400 was an 
insult to them. They sent us a photo  of Mrs Ts eye, which Ive seen.
they went on holiday with a policy which covered them  for a personal accident and 
Mrs Ts loss of sight was a tragic accident. 
Mr and Mrs T also raised two points that our investigator responded to:
my provisional decision referred to Mrs Ts eye operation but shed never had an eye 
operation. They  wanted to know where I got that information. Our investigator 
explained that UKIs records included a note of a call with Mr T where  it said it could 
consider a personal accident claim once an operation on the eye took place and 
permanent sight loss was confirmed.  
UKI had recently  carried  out a credit  search  on Mr T which Mr T thought was illegal. 
Mr and Mrs T said the action showed  how bad UKI were and wanted the information 
added to their complaint. Our investigator  explained that before we considered  that 
complaint Mr and Mrs T would need to first raise  the complaint  with UKI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr and Mrs Ts responses to my provisional decision and summarised  the main 
points above.  Their response hasnt changed  my mind  as to what's a fair and reasonable 
outcome. My decision  hasnt changed  as I still think UKI fairly declined the claim.
I havent taken  into account whether or not UKI carried  out a credit search on Mr T, and 
whether it should  have  done so, as thats new separate complaint. Our investigator correctly  
explained that Mr T will need to first raise the complaint with UKI before we can look at the 
matter.
Our investigator correctly  told Mr and Mrs T where the information about Mrs Ts eye 
operation was from. My decision as to whats a fair outcome of the complaint isnt changed 
by whether Mrs T had an operation on her eye. 
I dont doubt that Mrs Ts loss of sight has been  a very upsetting life changing event for her 
and Mr T. Mr and Mrs T say her loss of sight was caused by a complex  and unique  set of 
circumstances. But UKI can still fairly  decline the claim if the circumstances dont meet  the 
policy requirements for cover.
Ref: DRN53682815If policy wording is ambiguous we generally  say its fair for any ambiguity to be interpreted in 
favour of the party who didnt  draft the contact, which  is the consumer. However, I dont think 
the policy is ambiguous about the definition of bodily injury.
Mr and Mrs T say the policy wording isnt clear  that all four criteria for bodily injury have to be 
met for the claim to be covered. I dont agree. 
The policy doesnt  need to specifically say all four criteria have to be met because it's clear 
that unless the injury  was caused  by all the criteria  of accidental,  outward, violent and visible 
means the injury  doesnt meet the policy definition of bodily injury. 
The definition of bodily injury cant reasonably be read as being  accidental (or) outward (or) 
violent and visible means as that wouldnt make sense.
Ive explained  in my provisional  findings that as the four criteria arent defined  in the policy  
this service thinks its fair and reasonable to apply  a words every  day and commonly-used 
meaning, Ive also explained why I think Mrs Ts loss of sight  met the accidental,  outward 
and visible means criteria. So I havent  interpreted  each of the four criteria to suit UKI, as 
Mr and Mrs T suggest. As Ive used each words every day and commonly-used meaning 
Ive given a reasonable interpretation  of each  criteria.
The fundamental issue is whether Mrs Ts loss of sight was caused by violent means  as well 
as by accidental,  outward  and visible means.  Mr and Mrs T say the legal definition  of 
violence is 'unlawful physical force and thats what most people understand violent to 
mean. But even  if I thought that was correct  it doesnt help their claim. Mrs Ts loss of sight  
wasnt caused by unlawful physical force, it was caused by an infection due to her stuck 
contact lens.
Ive used a broader every day definition of violence, which  doesnt  require  an unlawful 
element. But, as Ive said, even the broader definition doesnt help Mr and Mrs Ts claim. 
I dont think Mrs T lost her sight by violent means, it wasnt caused  by a sudden  physical or 
great force, it was caused  by an infection due to her stuck contact lens.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings Im satisfied UKI 
fairly and reasonably said the claim didnt meet the policy definition of bodily injury  and 
declined the personal accident  claim.  
In my provisional findings I explained  why I thought parts of UKIs  service to Mr and Mrs T 
were unnecessary and unreasonable.  Mr and Mrs T say thats  emotive language and 
I should focus on the policy definition.  But the issue of whether UKI gave  poor service  
causing Mr and Mrs T distress and inconvenience isnt about policy definitions. I consider 
whether a business has given reasonable service as part of deciding whether a business 
gave poor service.
 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings Im also satisfied that 
the £100 compensation UKI paid Mr and Mrs T wasnt  enough  to acknowledge the distress  
and inconvenience  UKI caused  them by its poor service. An additional £300 compensation 
award is a fair amount,  which UKI has agreed. Im sorry Mr and Mrs T think that amount is 
insulting.
Ref: DRN53682816my final decision
I partly  uphold  the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs T total 
compensation of £400 (inclusive  of the £100  already  paid)  for their distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service, as its now agreed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5368281