K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that she was given misleading  information  by National Westminster Bank 
Plcs telephone banking  service more than once.  This led to her not being  able to access her 
money. She would like compensation for this. 
background 
Miss M opened an account with NatWest on 10 August 2018. 
On 13 August 2018, Miss M phoned  NatWests telephone banking  service to ask how best to 
make a vehicle purchase on a given date. She was advised that as she hadnt  yet received 
her debit card or her card reader, she should call the same number again on the day of the 
purchase to complete the payment. 
On 15 August 2018, Miss M called  NatWest from the car showroom as advised.  She was 
told that transfer for the purchase couldnt  be processed because  she didnt yet have her 
debit card or card reader. Miss M complained  that she had been told by NatWest that it 
would have been possible to complete the transfer. The operator apologised and offered £20 
compensation to Miss M. 
The operator  then tried another way of trying to complete the transfer  but, again, found  that it 
wasnt possible without a debit card.  Miss M was then told to go to a branch the next day 
with her passport  to complete  the transfer.  
On 16 August 2018, Miss M went to a NatWest branch to complete the transfer.  She was 
told again that it wasnt possible to do so without  her debit  card.
Miss M complained. She was eventually  told to make a CHAPS  transfer.   
NatWest investigated  Miss Ms complaint. They found that they had provided a poor service  
to Miss A. In addition  to the £20 already paid to her, they offered a further £21 for the 
CHAPS transfer and £2.30 for Miss Ms travel costs  to and from the bank. 
Miss M wasnt  happy with this outcome so she came to us. 
Our adjudicator found that NatWests  service had been poor.  She thought that a further  £100  
compensation should be paid to Miss M. 
Miss M didnt think that this properly took into account the time that she had spent  trying  to 
sort out the transfer. Nor did she think it dealt with her having to visit the car showroom a 
number of times and make childcare arrangements for this and her visit to the bank. 
The complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52197092Im afraid Miss M wont be happy  with my decision. I agree with our adjudicator  that a further 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I will explain  why. 
I have considered that Miss M may have had further  expenses as a result of the transfer not 
going through. But, when  asked for proof  of these,  Miss M was unable  to provide any. So, I 
cant see how I can order NatWest to pay for any additional expenses  incurred. 
I do think that Miss M was given misleading information by NatWest more than once. I dont 
think that the compensation previously given  by NatWest for this is sufficient. As Miss M has 
pointed out, the £21 paid was for a payment that she had to make so doesnt really deal with 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
I think that Miss M was distressed and inconvenienced by the additional visits that she had 
to make to the car showroom and to the bank.  Additionally, finding  childcare  wouldve  been 
difficult. But I think that the compensation already  paid and a further £100 deals with the 
distress and inconvenience suffered. I think that it is fair and reasonable sum in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
Because I think that the service provided by National Westminster  Bank  Plc was poor, I 
require them to pay an additional £100 to Miss M on top of what has already been paid to 
her for the distress and inconvenience caused by their actions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5219709