K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs B are unhappy at how Mortgage Express (ME) has dealt with their buy-to-let 
(BTL) mortgages. In summary, they consider ME has acted unreasonably in relation to the 
following matters:
over-valuing their properties when Mr K and Mrs B purchased them;
refusing to lower  the interest rate in line with changes to the Bank  of England  Base Rate  
(BEBR);
dealing with arrears  on the account,  which Mr K and Mrs B say they paid off;
refusing to extend the term of expired mortgages;
using the Right to Consolidate  (RTC);
appointing  Law of Property Act Receivers  (LPARs);
repossessing properties and the sale prices achieved for those properties;
failing  to comply with mortgage regulations;
adding ground  rent and service charges to the mortgage accounts without their consent;
returning direct debits following an indemnity claim.
Mr K and Mrs B have also raised  concerns about the actions of the LPARs.  They say that, 
the LPARs left properties  empty with no rental income and so do not consider they should be 
responsible for this.
background
This complaint is about 16 BTL mortgages  taken out with ME.  
I will not set out entire the history of whats  happened. In his letter  dated 18 June 2019 the 
investigator set out the history of the matter in depth. Mr K and Mrs B and ME all have a 
copy of that letter so there is no need for me to repeat the details  here. I will also explain that 
I will not be re-investigating the complaint; my role is to review the investigators findings  in 
the light of all the evidence and arguments presented by both sides.
Briefly, at the relevant time, Mr K and Mrs B had 16 interest-only BTL mortgages  with ME. 
They also held multiple BTL mortgages  with another lender. Four of the ME mortgages 
reached the end of their terms in 2015. In 2012 ME wrote to Mr K and Mrs B to alert them  to 
this so they could make  plans to repay the mortgages. 
Mr K and Mrs B asked ME to extend the terms for a further 15 years but ME declined to do 
so. There was considerable discussion  with ME and Mr K and Mrs B over the next three 
years but no resolution  could be found.  Plans to sell the properties  didnt come to pass. 
Proposals put by ME were unacceptable to Mr K and Mrs B, and likewise their proposals to 
resolve the situation were not acceptable  to ME.
After the mortgage  terms ended  in September 2015 ME appointed a receiver  to sell the 
properties. 
In November 2016 a receiver was appointed by ME for another property. ME said this is 
because the mortgage was in arrears, but Mr K and Mrs B dispute this.
The properties were  all sold at a shortfall.  Mr K and Mrs B complained  about  the actions of 
ME which led to the receivers  being appointed and about the sale of the properties. Theyre 
Ref: DRN59580392also unhappy about the management of the accounts by ME and that it paid service  charges 
to the freeholders of their properties.
ME didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to us. An investigator issued a detailed 
report on 18 June 2019 in which he considered all the points  Mr K and Mrs B had raised.
He made  the following findings:
the actions  of the LPARs arent  covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service;
ME didnt act unfairly or unreasonably  in declining term extensions;
Mr K and Mrs B were  in breach  of contract  when  the mortgage terms expired and they 
hadnt repaid them;
because of this, ME was entitled to appoint LPARs and its decision to do so was 
reasonable;
Mr K and Mrs B were  in arrears on another mortgage. Although  they later paid cheques  
to cover the missed  payments, they dont consider  their mortgage to have been  in 
arrears. The investigator disagreed. He found  they were in breach of contract as there 
were more  than two months  of arrears. 
because of this, he thought the decision to appoint LPARs for that property was 
reasonable;
ME had treated Mr K and Mrs B fairly in relation to the way it had dealt with repossession 
and sale of the properties;
the five properties had not been  sold at an undervalue.  Theyd  been  appropriately  
marketed and ME had sold them for the best price  achievable in the circumstances;
the original valuations had been done  by independent  third parties; ME was entitled to 
rely on those;
ME had a right to consolidate  (RTC), but hadnt exercised it due to the properties  being 
sold at a shortfall; 
he found that, for the four properties on which  the mortgages had expired, these had 
been on an initial fixed rate. After  that, MEs variable rate fluctuated in line with 
movement in the BEBR;
the interest rate on the fifth property, once the fixed  rate applied,  went  onto MEs 
Standard Variable  Rate (SVR), which was in line with SVRs  charged by other BTL 
lenders;
if Mr K and Mrs B were unhappy  with the interest  rates they could have  gone  to another  
lender;
ME was entitled  to pay service charges where  these  were owed and unpaid by Mr K and 
Mrs B to protect  its security;
after ME tried to take a direct  debit three times,  Mr K and Mrs B cancelled it and paid by 
cheque. Mr K and Mrs Bs bank then made a direct debit  indemnity claim which ME was 
obliged to comply  with. The investigator  found  ME had done  nothing wrong by doing this.
Overall, the investigator  wasnt persuaded the complaint should be upheld.
Mr K and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review  the investigators findings. Theyve 
made the following points:
it was unfair of ME to refuse to extend the terms of the expired mortgages;
the investigator saw only the original valuations, but substantive law should also be 
taken, then the result will be against  the lender;
Ref: DRN59580393their contract contained no right to consolidate and they havent  signed anything to agree 
to that, so this doesnt apply to their properties;
the findings regarding the interest rate and direct  debit indemnity claims are unfair and 
illogical;
the findings relating to service charges, ground rent and costs gives ME too many rights  
at the expense of small landlords such as them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to about 2,400 pages. Ive read everything, and 
its apparent that some  parts  of the evidence  are less relevant  to the underlying  case than 
others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of arguments. In what  
follows, I have, by necessity, summarised  events  in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Because the investigator has issued such a detailed report, I dont need to repeat all the 
details here.  Both parties have seen the report and are aware of the issues  the investigator  
has covered. Im also conscious that, because our decisions are published, I need to ensure  
that I do not include in this decision any information  that might  identify Mr K and Mrs B. 
My role is to review  the investigators findings, not to re-investigate the complaint. So Ive 
looked at everything  Mr K and Mrs B, ME and the investigator have said about this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator,  for broadly  
the same  reasons.
The starting point  is that these  are commercial mortgages, not residential.  What this means 
is that they are unregulated mortgages and arent  subject to the Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB).  So although Ive noted the comments 
Mr K and Mrs B have made about  MEs failure to comply with MCOB in various ways,  the 
mortgages do not fall under the scope of MCOB. Consequently, ME has done nothing wrong 
by not administering these mortgages  as if they are subject to MCOB.
Nevertheless, ME is required  to act fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr K and Mrs B. 
But this is balanced  against MEs entitlement to assess  the risk to which it is prepared to be 
exposed in relation to commercial lending of this nature.
The mortgage conditions  applicable to these loans  set out the rights, duties  and obligations 
of both ME and Mr K and Mrs B. The conditions say (amongst other things):
ME can appoint LPARs if the mortgage  conditions are breached;
ME is entitled to sell the property, whether or not it has been repossessed;
Ref: DRN59580394ME can instruct a receiver to repossess or manage the property;
ME can consolidate the mortgage  accounts  and if the borrower wants  to pay off one 
mortgage ME can refuse to agree to this and insist that all the mortgages are repaid;
monthly mortgage payments must be made  by direct debit;
the circumstances in which ME can change the interest rate;
borrowers are required to meet any responsibilities they have under a lease, 
including payment of money due under the lease;
ME is entitled to add to the mortgage debt any costs it has incurred, including  any 
money paid to protect its legal  rights.
Furthermore, ME is entitled to determine  the level of risk to which it is prepared to be 
exposed in relation to BTL portfolio lending. Its also entitled to decide, as part of its general 
commercial operations, how to manage that risk where it appears  that BTL borrowers  are, 
even inadvertently, increasing  MEs exposure to potential loss.
So it is against the background of the terms and conditions which  apply to this mortgage that 
I will be considering the complaint.  
original valuations: These were carried out by independent surveyors,  and for the benefit  
of ME, not Mr K and Mrs B. The properties  were  bought as part of a commercial venture. 
Furthermore, the Court of Appeal  established in the case  of Scullion v Bank of Scotland  
[2011] EWCA Civ 693 that a surveyor  engaged to carry  out a valuation  for a mortgage  lender 
on a BTL property  owes no duty of care to the purchaser.
In the circumstances, it was the responsibility  of Mr K and Mrs B to satisfy themselves that 
the price they were  being asked to pay for a property  was a fair reflection of the propertys 
value. If they didnt carry out their own due diligence and appoint  their own surveyors, then 
thats not the responsibility of ME.
interest rate: Im satisfied  there  is no basis on which  the mortgages (once out of their fixed  
rate) were required to be set at an interest  rate which tracked  BEBR.  The reversionary rates 
charged by ME dont seem to me to be outside  the parameters of BTL interest rates  across  
the industry generally. Its not the responsibility  of ME to manage Mr K and Mrs Bs BTL 
business for them. If Mr K and Mrs B were unhappy  with the reversionary interest  rates 
charged by ME, they were  free to move their mortgages to another  lender to get a better 
return on their investments.
service charges: The mortgage  conditions  provide  that Mr K and Mrs B must pay all 
charges connected  with leasehold properties.  This includes service charges and ground 
rent. Failure  to pay can result in the freeholder taking steps to forfeit the lease,  as it is 
entitled to do under s.146 Law of Property  Act 1925. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied ME was entitled  to pay service  charges and ground  rent 
legitimately demanded  that were unpaid by Mr K and Mrs B, in order  to preserve its security. 
The mortgage terms allow it to do so, and to add these  to the overall  debt. I appreciate that 
Mr K and Mrs B think this gives ME an unfair advantage over small landlords, but it is a 
standard term in all mortgage contracts (both BTL and residential) that lenders are entitled to 
protect their position by paying outstanding charges.
term extensions: ME gave Mr K and Mrs B three years notice of the impending expiry of 
the mortgage terms on four of their mortgages. I can see that there  were  various  proposals  
put to ME by Mr K and Mrs B. Im satisfied that ME gave fair consideration to these. Having 
Ref: DRN59580395done so, ME was entitled to decline the requests for term extensions.  ME was also under no 
obligation to agree to any other  proposals.
appointment of LPARs:  Ive reviewed the terms and conditions  and taken into 
consideration the history of this matter.  Having done  so, Im satisfied that ME was entitled  to 
appoint LPARs for the four expired mortgages  in 2015. Because the mortgages hadnt been 
repaid, Mr K and Mrs B were in breach of contract. In the circumstances, particularly given  
that Mr K and Mrs B had had three years to make  arrangements to repay  the mortgages, Im 
satisfied ME didnt treat them unfairly  when it appointed LPARs.
With regard to the appointment of LPARs in 2016  for the other mortgage, I am satisfied that 
this was done because three mortgage  payments had been  missed. I appreciate Mr K and 
Mrs B brought the account up to date after the LPARs had been appointed. But in all the 
circumstances, taking  account of the way in which the accounts had been  managed  across 
the portfolio for some years, I think MEs actions were proportionate and reasonable. The 
account terms and conditions provide that the mortgage becomes immediately repayable in 
full where Mr K and Mrs B are late paying  money  under  the contract and the amount 
overdue is equal to at least  two monthly payments. That is what  happened in this case.
repossession and sale of the properties : Because these arent residential mortgages ME 
isnt required to comply  with the requirements  set out in MCOB, or the Pre-Action Protocol. 
Nor is ME required  to take court proceedings to repossess and sell the properties. The Law 
of Property Act 1925 and the mortgage  terms and conditions allow  ME to take possession  
and sell without having to go to court.
Ive reviewed the sales history for each of the five properties. The investigator set these out 
in detail in his letter of 18 June 2019,  so I dont need to repeat  them  here. 
Generally, when selling a property in possession a lender  is required to obtain the best 
possible price,  taking  into account market conditions. The property has to be offered to the 
market and properly  valued. But a lender isnt required to leave a property unsold  for years 
in a depressed  market  in the hope that the market will eventually rise  at the same time as 
interest continues to accrue against  the outstanding  debt. 
Im satisfied, having considered the sales histories  for all five properties,  that they were 
properly exposed to the market and sold for the best available price.  In the circumstances, I 
dont think ME did anything wrong in how it sold the properties.
Right to Consolidate: Mr K and Mrs B say they never signed anything which allowed ME to 
consolidate their mortgages.  But their contract with ME includes the mortgage terms and 
conditions. These say at Section D Part 1 that the mortgage deed  covers any assets 
charged to ME for all monies  owed to ME under each agreement.  
At Section D part 15, the conditions say If you have  more  than one mortgage  with us and 
you want to pay off just one of those mortgages, we have the right to stop you paying off the 
mortgages separately and to insist that you pay them  all off.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that, if Mr K and Mrs B sell one of their properties, ME is 
entitled to decide how any surplus  proceeds of sale  after payment of the mortgage  are to 
be applied  and can insist  these be used towards  reduction of any debt owed to ME.
Ref: DRN59580396direct debit  indemnity: The rules applicable  to direct debit indemnity claims provide (in 
simple terms) that, where a claim is made by a customers bank for a return  of direct  debits  
which the customers bank says have been paid in the wrong amount or in error, the payee  
is obliged to refund the direct debits to the customers bank. If Mr K and Mrs Bs bank 
instigated a direct debit indemnity claim,  that is outside the control of ME. So I cant  see that 
ME has done anything  wrong here.
account management:  The Financial Ombudsman  Service  doesnt  audit  accounts,  and so 
I wont be going through the accounts  for all 16 mortgages to see if there  have been  any 
errors. Overall, Im not persuaded ME has mismanaged the mortgages or acted outside the 
account terms and conditions.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr K and Mrs B were hoping for. I can assure them  that 
Ive given careful thought to all of their arguments. But, in all the circumstances of this case, 
Im unable to find in their favour. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5958039