K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1994, Mr and Mrs A took out an unsecured loan with a term of five years with Nationwide. 
At the same time they were sold a regular premium  PPI policy to protect the repayments  on 
their loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.  Having done so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
Nationwide doesnt  have any of the paperwork from the time of this sale. But thats not 
particularly surprising given that the sale took place some twenty  five years ago. Businesses 
arent expected to keep such records over these very long timescales. And Mr and Mrs A 
dont seem to have kept any of these records either. So in these circumstances, I need to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened based on the very limited information 
available to me. 
Mr and Mrs A say that they took out their loan in their local Nationwide  branch, so Ive taken 
this to be the case. They say the person they spoke to then didnt mention PPI when they 
were taken through their loan application.  So they werent aware  that PPI had been  included 
with their loan; werent given any information about the policys terms and conditions,  and 
werent told its cost.
Ive no doubt that this is Mr and Mrs As honest recollection of what  happened during this 
branch meeting. But I do need to bear in mind  that memories of such  discussions do 
normally tend to fade over such lengthy periods of time. And, quite understandably,  their 
memories of this meeting  dont appear  to be particularly vivid or detailed.  So I dont think  I 
can fairly conclude  that Nationwide  failed  to discuss PPI in this meeting, based solely on 
what Mr and Mrs A now remember being said to them then.  
Nationwide says that it would have been  its practice  in such  meetings about  applying  for a 
loan to highlight  the implications of monthly  repayments not being  made  and to offer PPI as 
a means of protecting against these. And it says that if a consumer opted to take out this 
cover, they would have been  given  a loan agreement to sign which  would have shown the 
monthly cost of the PPI and made clear that this cover was optional.  It also says that, as the 
monthly PPI premiums would have  been  collected  from the consumer separately  from their 
loan repayments,  they would also have  needed to complete  a separate  bank mandate to 
allow this to be done.
Ref: DRN51460202Nationwide has provided a sample  copy of the type of unsecured loan agreement  that it says 
Mr and Mrs A would have signed  at the time. This shows  the monthly cost of the PPI 
separately from the monthly  loan repayments and describes this as the Monthly Premium 
for Optional Credit  Insurance. But this credit agreement is dated the year after 
Mr and Mrs As loan was taken out. This means that I cant place any strong  reliance on the 
sample agreement  being  the same in all respects  as the one they signed.
So, I accept that its possible that the person Mr and Mrs A spoke to in Nationwide  didnt 
make it clear  to them that the PPI policy was optional and that this cover was added  without 
getting their agreement to it. And its also possible that the loan agreement they signed didnt 
show the additional monthly cost of the PPI they would be paying for clearly  enough.  But on 
balance, and having carefully  considered all of the very limited  information now available  to 
me, I think  its more likely that the PPI was discussed with them and that they actively 
agreed to take it knowing its cost and that they had a choice. However, I can well understand 
why Mr and Mrs A might not be able to recall this now.
Nationwide says that no advice was given  during  this PPI sale and I think  this is most likely  
to have been the case. This means that it didnt need to ensure that the policy  was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs A. But it did still need to ensure  that it gave them  enough information for them  
to decide if they wanted  to take it. I think its possible  that the information Nationwide  gave 
Mr and Mrs A could  have been  better than it was. But I dont think that better information 
would have changed their minds  about  taking it. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs A appear to have  been  eligible for the PPI policy  and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions  and limitations.
They say that they didnt need the cover because they were both eligible for generous  
sick pay and had other means of making  their loan repayments if one of them couldnt 
work. But this policy  would have paid out in addition to these. If one of them had been 
unable to work  because of an accident or sickness it would have covered them for up to 
the remaining term of the loan. And if one of them  had become unemployed, it would 
have covered them for up to twelve months.  So I still think they would  have valued  the 
extra protection which the policy gave  them.
Ive no reason  to think that the policy was unaffordable for them. And as the premiums  
were paid monthly, they could have cancelled the policy  if it no longer met their needs.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs A have lost out by anything that Nationwide  may have done 
wrong when it sold them  this policy.
Ive thought about the reasons why Mr and Mrs A said they didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view. And whilst I recognise that this will be a disappointment to them, none of 
these have changed my mind about not upholding their complaint.
Ref: DRN51460203my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5146020