K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a consolidation  re-mortgage Mr and Mrs H applied for in 
February 2009 with National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). Mr and Mrs H, who were  
advised by NatWest in the transaction, believe it was mis-sold.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the sums involved. No discourtesys intended by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal  service  we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs H when my 
decision is published.
The mortgage NatWest  provided was for £195,000, repayable over nine years on an 
interest-only basis. Approximately £155,000 repaid  an existing mortgage with another 
lender, with the remainder being  used  to repay  assorted  consumer debts Mr and Mrs H had 
at the time. The limited  point of sale of sale documentation captured the intended repayment 
vehicle as being an ISA.  
In 2018, when the mortgage fell due for repayment, Mr and Mrs H werent able to repay the 
capital, and reluctant  to sell and downsize,  they asked NatWest  for a term extension. That 
was refused, and weve received a separate complaint about that. This complaint is that the 
mortgage was wrongly  lent in the first place.  Mr and Mrs H believe NatWest lent the money 
too easily, without  doing enough checks to make sure they had the means to repay it when it 
fell due.
The investigator who considered the complaint didnt  recommend it should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs H have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes  between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts.  
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  
on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think  I need 
Ref: DRN58610522to comment on it in order to reach  what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round. 
Recommending an interest-only mortgage wasnt as incongruous in 2009 as it looks now 
with the benefit of eleven years hindsight. I cant apply that hindsight; I have to assess  the 
suitability of the advice when it was given, taking into account  what regulation and good 
practice required of lenders at the time. The reality that, unlike the present day, there  was 
then far less of an obligation placed  on lenders to check the information given by applicants  
was true. They could,  and generally  did, take what  applicants  told them on face value. 
Also, in the respect  of interest-only mortgages,  there  was also a great deal more latitude 
regarding what could  be considered a suitable  repayment vehicle than there  is now. This 
mortgage has been characterised as being interest-only without a repayment vehicle; in my 
view, thats incorrect.  When NatWest was being asked to lend, the proposition was that this 
was interest-only  for mortgage for which Mr and Mrs H did have a repayment vehicle. 
I have taken note of what Mr and Mrs H have said about the application form wrongly 
recording the repayment vehicle as an ISA. Thats an anomaly, and at a distance of eleven 
years, one thats unlikely to be explained to everyones satisfaction.  Its quite  possible  it was 
just an error  in the information gathering, but in any event  it has no real bearing on the 
broader outcome.  
Thats because Mr and Mrs H, by their own testimony, went  in to this transaction intending to 
continue using the repayment  vehicle  theyd already been using for the mortgage  that 
preceded it; that is, their own pension plans. In 2009, such  arrangement  would not have 
been considered unsuitable. They are looked upon differently now, but as Ive said, I cant 
use todays standards  to judge if this mortgage was mis-sold. Nor can I taken into account 
events in Mr and Mrs Hs lives that mean that using their pension plans to repay  the 
mortgage is no longer  a viable strategy.
Mr and Mrs H have questioned the loan-to-value  ratio (LTV) of the mortgage NatWest  
granted them; it was, as I understand  it, in the region of 53%. I have to say that theres 
nothing remotely concerning about an LTV of that order. Most lenders  are more than happy 
to lend up to 75% solely on the basis of the security of the property, and will go beyond that 
with the provision that the borrower pay a higher lending charge to offset  the greater risk. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they thought at the time that it was too easy to get what they wanted 
from NatWest.  Ive read carefully what theyve said; the context of that observation  was very 
much to contrast the response  theyd  got from their existing lender, who had turned them  
down. Mr and Mrs H believe that makes  their former lender responsible  and NatWest  
irresponsible; the position is actually a little more nuanced than that. One thing  that hasnt 
changed in the years since 2009 is that different  lenders have always  had different lending  
criteria from each other. Just because one lender is willing to lend when another  isnt doesnt 
make either lender  right or wrong.  
I have no regulatory  function, so its not my role to say what NatWests  lending policy should 
have been at the beginning of 2009; it would  have been for the Financial Services Authority 
(the regulator at the time) to say if it thought  the banks policy  was amiss. That did start to 
happen later that year as the problems  that ultimately triggered the financial crisis began  to 
emerge. But this mortgage was sold before that process  gathered momentum, and 
Mr and Mrs Hs re-mortgage proposal  met NatWests lending  policy  as it stood  at the time.  
Ref: DRN58610523There are no grounds for me to second -guess or otherwise interfere  with how the bank 
exercised its commercial judgement. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5861052