K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in April 
2003. 
The policy was sold to Mrs M some  years later in August 2007. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mrs M mainly says she believes  her circumstances meant that she wasnt  eligible for the 
policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
HSBC cant say from its records how it sold the PPI to Mrs M. The original paperwork from 
the sale is no longer  available.  And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely on Mrs M being able to 
remember everything as it happened  so long ago. So I cant know  exactly what (if anything) 
HSBC mightve said to Mrs M when she took out PPI. 
But I think Mrs M wouldve been aware  that the PPI was optional  even if shes forgotten 
this now. I say this because she had held her credit card for some  years already without PPI. 
So it was up to her to arrange to take out PPI and Mrs M wouldve had to say if she wanted  
this insurance  it wasnt automatically  added on to a credit  card account. And it looks to me 
as if Mrs M couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim. So, on balance, 
I think its more likely that Mrs M decided she wanted to have the benefits  PPI offered and 
HSBC added PPI to her account at her request. 
As HSBC wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mrs M, and she couldnt remember, our 
adjudicator thought about what wed expect from HSBC if it had personally recommended 
PPI to her. If HSBC had advised Mrs M to take out the PPI, then this means HSBC not only 
had to give Mrs M important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for her. So Ive looked at Mrs Ms 
complaint this way also. 
Ref: DRN58777522Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs M was eligible for the PPI. She doesnt think she 
was working full time when she applied for the PPI  but HSBCs electronic records  from 
then suggest otherwise.  Mrs M hasnt provided me with anything  to show  that shes right 
about what shes told us. And Ive no reason  to think that the information from HSBC  doesnt 
accurately record what she told the bank at the time. I have to look at all the available  
information and decide what I think is most likely  - what Mrs M says isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold her complaint.  On balance, I think its more likely that the 
information she provided to HSBC at the time accurately reflects  her work circumstances 
when she applied for the PPI  rather than what she recalls now. So I think she was eligible 
for the policy when  she applied  for it.
PPI wouldve  covered her for accident  or sickness, paying out in full for up to 12 months per 
claim. So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult  time  especially if 
Mrs M mightve  had extra costs as a result of being  off work as a result of illness  or disability. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out in the event  Mrs M lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. Mrs M hasnt mentioned any other  ways she couldve paid her credit card if she 
wasnt able to work. So I think PPI was suitable for her.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if this wouldve affected 
Mrs M  none of the main policy limitations applied to her circumstances. So I dont think  that 
having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mrs M off 
taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  HSBC gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if HSBC properly explained what the policy would cost, or what  
it might  pay out if Mrs M made a claim.  But it appears that Mrs M chose to take out the policy  
when she didnt have  to have it  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. It seems to 
have been affordable for her. Mrs M couldve cancelled the policy at any time at no extra  
cost if her circumstances changed  or she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mrs M 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5877752