K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains about the level of refund she received from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VFS) following the end of her car hire purchase agreement.
background 
Mrs A says due to an error by VFS that resulted in her agreement  being mistakenly 
cancelled shortly after it started VFS agreed  it would refund two monthly  payments when the 
agreement ended. And she says it hasnt in fact given her a refund at all, its simply repaid 
the credit  balance that was on her account  as a result of an interest  rebate she received 
when the finance was settled. 
Our investigator thought Mrs As complaint should be partly upheld. He said VFS should give 
her a pro rata refund  of the final payment shed  made under her hire purchase agreement, 
covering the period between 14 and 31 March 2019 after the agreement  was settled. And it 
should pay her 8% simple  interest  on this amount from the date her agreement  was settled 
until the date of payment.
VFS accepted the investigators opinion.   
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She said she was 98% sure VFS had 
offered her the refund of two monthly  repayments, rather  than just one. And she said she still 
maintains the payment it's given her was the refund of an overpayment  on her account as a 
result of an interest rebate shed received when the finance was settled. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mrs As complaint  and Ill explain why.
I see Mrs A says shes 98% sure VFS agreed  to refund two monthly payments under her 
hire purchase agreement as a goodwill  gesture following its mistaken cancellation  of the 
agreement that led to the term being extended by two months.  VFS, however, thinks  it only 
agreed to refund one monthly  payment.  
Our file includes a recording of a phone call between Mrs A and VFS in which  the refund of 
one monthly payments mentioned. VFS hasnt been  able to locate any call referring to the 
refund of two monthly payments. And Mrs A hasnt been able to give us any more specific 
information about when or with whom she believes a refund of two monthly payments was 
discussed. In these circumstances, I dont have  enough information to conclude its most 
likely VFS agreed to refund Mrs A two monthly payments.
Its clear Mrs A also feels strongly that she hasnt received the refund by VFS of a monthly 
payment under her finance agreement and instead  shes simply received the credit balance 
that was on her account as a result of an interest rebate.
Ref: DRN50877992Ive looked carefully  at the information  both parties  have given us about  this matter and Im 
satisfied the payment of £353.29 VFS made to Mrs A on 25 March 2019  represented  the 
refund of one monthly payment under her finance agreement.
I note, however, that Mrs A made her final monthly  repayment on 2 March 2019  and her 
agreement was then settled on 13 March. So, I think its fair that she should  also receive a 
proportionate refund of that final payment, covering the period between 14 and 31 March  
2019 after the agreement had ended. And I think its also fair that she should receive 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date her agreement was settled until the date of 
payment.
So, I partly  uphold Mrs As complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mrs As complaint against Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.  It 
must give her a pro rata refund of the final payment she made  under her finance agreement, 
covering the period between 14 and 31 March 2019 after the agreement  was settled. And it 
must pay her 8% simple  interest on this amount from the date her agreement  was settled 
until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5087799