K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained about the change  in the structure of Old Mutual Wealth Life 
Assurance Limiteds review letter which has only just warned them that they face potentially 
severe increases in the future. They say they could not have anticipated increases of this 
magnitude and consider the earlier literature provided was inadequate and misleading.
background
An adjudicator at this serviced  noted that Old Mutual  had not recommended  this policy back 
in 2006 so was not responsible for its suitability. Instead, its responsibility in this regard was 
limited to providing fair, accurate and transparent information and adhering  to the policys  
terms and conditions. All of which allowed it to review the premiums going forward.
She said Old Mutual was entitled to change  the format of the review packs  and that this had 
been done in response to customer feedback. As this was a commercial decision,  she was 
unable to stipulate that this new information should have been provided  at the outset.
Mr and Mrs A did not agree, and said:
The most recent review results  in the premiums increasing to an unimaginable level 
compared to the cost at the outset,  the basis on which they agreed to take out the 
policy
They were never  warned of this possibility
Old Mutual admits it changed the review pack 11 years  after the had taken out the 
policy i.e. they never had this information at the outset and so were never in a 
position to consider  this additional material
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons. Its important to reiterate 
that Old Mutual  did not recommend this policy so it is not responsible for its suitability of for 
ensuring Mr and Mrs A fully understood the implications  of the premiums being reviewable 
(beyond providing clear  and accurate  to this effect). I note that Mr and Mrs A did make  a 
complaint against  the business  which recommended this policy  and that complaint was 
resolved. 
I am satisfied that Old Mutual was entitled  to review  the premiums in the light of the rising 
cost of providing the annual cover, and that this was in the policys terms and conditions.
I recognise that the latest review pack provides far more information about the different 
factors which go into setting the premium/sum assured going  forward. This is something  Old 
Mutual brought in largely as a result of a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Thematic  
Review in 2016  which recommended  businesses  provide greater information. The FCA did 
not, however,  conclude  that businesses had been  wrong not to provide this additional 
information in the first place, merely that they should do so in the future.
Overall, I am satisfied that Old Mutual provided  sufficient information  about the reviewability  
of the policy  as against by the industrys requirements at the time.  In my view, these made 
Ref: DRN59247782clear that the premium  was only guaranteed for the first 10 years,  after which  an increase 
may be necessary  in order  to retain the sum assured. 
I accept that Old Mutual does not appear  to have specifically warned Mr and Mrs A that any 
rises could  be quite substantial as they got older  as the cost of providing  cover starts to 
increase sharply.  But, in my view, this advice  was something for which  the person who 
advised them to take out this policy was responsible for.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5924778