K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about a number of loans he took out with a company called MYJAR 
Limited. Mr C says it lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
We now know that Mr C took out 6 short-term loans from MYJAR  between March 2016  and 
February 2018. Ive enclosed  a summary  of Mr Cs borrowing  with MYJAR, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan number  5 onwards. In accordance with our normal approach to these 
types of situation,  this would mean  the charges and interest for loans 5 and 6 being  
reimbursed to Mr C together  with 8% simple interest added from the date they were paid (if 
they were)  to the date of settlement.
MYJAR agreed and made an offer to settle the complaint. But Mr C didnt agree to this 
because he wants the whole amounts for loans  5 and 6 completely written off. So the 
complaint has come  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Cs 
complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that he 
could repay  the loan he was given in a sustainable  manner. These checks  ought to have 
taken into account  a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have  fairly and reasonably done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN51548252There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr C 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr C, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out 
credit checks to assess his creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing  to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  about the length of the 
lending relationship, to the circumstances of loans 1 - 4. And I dont think its clear enough at 
these particular points  that what MYJAR would have would have seen, from its checks,  
suggested the loans were  either  unaffordable for him or that the information on the checks  it 
carried out substantially  undermined the outgoings Mr C had himself declared. 
I accept that Mr C may have already been  having difficulties managing  his money.  However, 
theres no clear record of the type or depth  of credit checks that were  carried out at that time 
or whether such checks would have caused  MYJAR  to think  he was in financial difficulties. 
So Im afraid  I dont agree that MYJAR knew its lending was unsustainable.  There was also 
a substantial gap between loans 1 and 2 which in my view means the pattern of lending  was 
broken up and not a continuing  chain. And starting  again at loan 2, the amounts he was 
borrowing seem  moderate and affordable for Mr C. So I dont uphold  this part of Mr Cs 
complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 5 onwards,  the situation was different. In 
common with his previous  2 loans, Mr C applied for loan 5 directly after repaying loan 
number 4. I also see the amount being  lent was, by this point, showing an increasing  pattern 
in that this was the highest amount Mr C borrowed to date. So I think  a more  comprehensive  
and proportionate set of checks  on his financial situation at this point was called for. It seems 
MYJAR accepts this and that loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have been given to Mr C.
What Mr C is effectively  asking  for is that all of the monies involved in loans 5 and 6 are 
completely written off. But as Ive said above, only the charges and interest ought to be and 
he should be compensated  for the time hes been deprived of that money. But Mr C has still 
had the benefit of being given the principal amounts (for both loans) in the first place.  So Im 
afraid he has a responsibility  to pay that money  back because  hes obviously been able to 
use it for something.  This is our normal approach  to these types of cases.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr C, MYJAR should:
Ref: DRN51548253refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 5 or 6 and treat any 
payments Mr C made towards these loans as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Cs loan 5 and 6 accounts  as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively 
having made payments above  the original capital borrowed, then MYJAR should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement.  
If reworking Mr Cs loan 5 and / or 6 accounts  leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then MYJAR can use the total refund to offset  this. And if there  is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would  remind  MYJAR that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C for 
the remaining  capital;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loans 5 
and 6
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Cs complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Taken Out Amount Repaid Instalments
1. 12/03/2016 £100 24/03/2016 1
2. 08/01/2018 £125 26/01/2018 3
3. 27/01/2018 £175 29/01/2018 3
4. 30/01/2018 £200 23/02/2018 3
5. 23/02/2018 £300 27/02/2018 3
6. 27/02/2018 £425 outstanding 3
Ref: DRN5154825