K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mrs S says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs S says that she didnt  agree to taking the MPPI, and that she didnt agree to it verbally 
or in writing.  So it mustve  been added without her consent. I cant  know  what  was said when 
Mrs S met with NatWest,  so I have to base  my decision on the information  I do have. 
NatWest has provided some paperwork from the time Mrs S took out her mortgage and 
MPPI. On the copy of her mortgage  application,  I can see that MPPI is presented as an 
optional product  and has been  declined. Mrs S has signed  the application. But it seems 
that a discussion  mustve taken place where Mrs S changed her mind  as NatWest has also 
provided copies  of two direct debit mandates that Mrs S has signed. One is for her mortgage 
 and the other is for MPPI. 
The MPPI direct debit is clearly labelled  as such, and an amount has been chosen for the 
level of cover required. So taking everything in to account, I think  NatWest made it clear that 
Mrs S didnt have to take out the MPPI  and that she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago
NatWest didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take out the MPPI - it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mrs S.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about having good sick 
pay and some savings  at the time.  But the MPPI  couldve paid out on top of Mrs Ss sick pay 
 and for longer than she would receive  full pay for. And it would also have protected her 
savings for other expenses. So these points  dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN59820752Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5982075