K822xcomplaint
Ms S has complained about  National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) handling  of a claim 
she made under her NHBC Buildmark  warranty for defects with her drainage  system and 
septic tank.
background
Ms S discovered issues with the drainage system for her new build property  during  
landscaping of her garden. Incorrect pipework  had been used for the drainage  field and it 
had been laid too close to both the boundary and the property. There were also concerns 
about the septic tank. Ms S initially  reported these issues to the builder  but when they 
refused to cooperate, she contacted NHBC in August 2017.
NHBC considered the issues under section 2 of the Buildmark cover  the builders liability 
period. It issued a resolution report requiring the builder to put right the issues  with the 
drainage field,  but not the septic tank.  It later accepted further  investigation of the septic tank 
was needed. But following  this, it maintained that remedial work  was only required to the 
drainage field.
The remedial works were completed in March 2019. Ms S is unhappy with the length of time 
her claim took to resolve.  She says NHBC allowed the builder to miss several deadlines  and 
that it should have taken  over settlement of her claim, in line with the terms of the policy, 
once the first deadline had been  missed.  Shes  also unhappy that NHBC didnt take steps to 
ensure that the builder carried out adequate  tests  during the timescales set out in the 
resolution report. She says the works should have been able to be resolved within two 
weeks but ended up taking around  19 months.
NHBC has explained that because the builder was engaging with the resolution process and 
not refusing to complete  works, that it didnt consider taking over the claim. NHBC accepts 
that Ms S clam has taken  too long to resolve and that she has suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result. It has paid/offered her £750 over two complaints, to compensate  
her for this. The first £250 is for the first complaint  which covers April 2017  to July 2018,  and 
£500 is for the second which covers July 2018 to completion of the remedial works.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms S complaint. She explained that our service doesnt  
have the power  to consider all of the issues brought by Ms S. This was because NHBC had 
issued its initial final response letter (FRL) in July 2018 (received  by Ms S in September  
2018) and Ms S hadnt brought  her complaint to our service with six months of that FRL. But 
she said we did have  the power  to consider everything that happened between 27 July 2018  
and completion  on the works.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigator, so the matter  was considered by an ombudsman.  
The ombudsman decided that our service didnt  have  the power to consider events before 
29 June 2018  because the resolution service didnt amount  to a regulated activity until that 
date. She also decided that we didnt have the power to consider events between  
29 June 2018  and 27 July 2018  because Ms S didnt refer her complaint to us within  six 
months of NHBCs FRL. She confirmed our service can consider events that occurred 
between 27 July 2018 and completion  of the works, as these were  addressed  in NHBCs 
second FRL in May 2019.
Ref: DRN53095332Our investigator considered the elements  of Ms S complaint that fall within our jurisdiction. 
She pointed  out that during the timeframe  she could consider, the builder missed a deadline  
to complete the works in August 2018. Following this NHBC failed to set a new deadline until 
February 2019  which was also missed  before the works were eventually  completed in 
March 2019.
Our investigator didnt  think NHBC had acted unfairly by not taking over the claim,  because 
the builder was cooperating with NHBC.  But she felt NHBC ought to have  managed the 
claim better such  as by setting a new resolution date once the August 2018  date had been 
missed by the builder. She considered  the impact the delays from 27 July 2018  onward had 
on Ms S but felt that the £500  NHBC had already  offered  for this period was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators  opinion.  So, because no agreement  has been able to 
be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ms S has highlighted  several  concerns, my decision focuses only on the issues  I 
consider to be material to the outcome of her complaint.  But I have carefully considered  the 
full timeline of events  when reaching  my decision.
Our services powers in relation to this complaint have already been  decided by an 
ombudsman here. This means Ill only be considering events that took place, and the impact 
they had, between 27 July 2018 and completion  of the remedial works. I wont be 
considering anything that took place before 27 July 2018 or the cumulative impact of 
anything which may or may not have gone  wrong before that date.
Section 2 of the Buildmark  warranty is the relevant section in this complaint. Under section 2, 
responsibility for putting right any defects rests with the builder.
Under section 2 of the warranty booklet it states:
What the builder must  do
If you tell the builder during the builder  warranty period that they have failed to meet 
the NHBC requirements, they must  put this right within a reasonable time. This 
includes:
 repairing physical damage  to your home resulting from their failure;
 taking  action  to treat, isolate or remove contamination from the land in line with any 
statutory notice that applies, or
improve the condition  of the land to prevent a statutory notice from being  issued;  and
 paying  for the reasonable cost of removing  and storing your possessions  and 
alternative accommodation, if necessary, while work  is being done.
..
Our resolution service
If you agree  to us providing our resolution service, we will contact  the builder about 
the problems you reported to us.
Ref: DRN53095333If the builder  still does not deal with the matter to your satisfaction,  we will investigate 
and then decide what the builder must  do to meet  their responsibilities.
We will then tell you and the builder what we decide in a written resolution  report.
Our guarantee
You are protected by the NHBC guarantee for what we (in a resolution report)  or a 
court (in a judgment  or, in Scotland, a decree) decides the builder  should  have done 
to meet  their responsibilities under the builder warranty.
If the builder  does not meet these  responsibilities,  we will do so on their behalf. Or, if 
we choose to, we will pay you what it would cost us to have the work  done.
It isnt in dispute that the works to Ms S drainage field amounted to a defect under the terms 
of the warranty. And the works have now been satisfactorily completed by the builder. What 
remains for me to decide is whether the compensation offered by NHBC is fair, in light of the 
issues it caused and the impact  they had on Ms S.
Ms S has argued that the builder failed to complete the works within a reasonable time as 
set out in the warranty. Shes unhappy that NHBC failed to take over settlement of the claim 
despite her making  numerous requests for it to do so. She says it took months to arrange a 
satisfactory percolation  test and that NHBC  failed to do anything about  it. She says the work  
should only ever have taken two weeks to complete, so issues  caused by the builder and 
NHBC have resulted in the claim taking far longer than it should have done to resolve.
NHBC says the builder was engaging with the resolution process and not disputing  that it 
would carry out the works.  Because of this, it says it didnt consider taking over settlement of 
the claim,  even though deadlines  it set were missed.
NHBC doesnt dispute that the builder failed  to keep to several deadlines it set in its 
resolution reports. It also doesnt  dispute that it failed  to set a new resolution date, once the 
builder failed to meet  the resolution  date set for August 2018, until February 2019. Because  
of these issues, Ms S was left without the use of her garden  for a significant amount of time. 
She also had to suffer with foul smells coming  from the drainage system and the 
embarrassment this caused her with her neighbours. I can also see Ms S spent a lot of time 
and effort  corresponding with NHBC about her claim and complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the arguments  put forward by both sides. While I do sympathise 
with Ms S frustration with the builder  missing deadlines, the percolation tests and the overall  
time taken,  I dont think it was unreasonable for NHBC not to take over the claim.  I say this 
because the builder was engaging with NHBC and remained willing  to carry out the works. 
Under section 2, responsibility for putting  right any defects remains with the builder, and the 
decision to take over settlement of the claim remains at NHBCs discretion.  I do fully 
appreciate there were  several delays  and issues caused by the both NHBC and the builder,  
but I dont think  this means NHBC was required to take over the claim. 
That said,  I do think NHBC has caused Ms S unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience in its 
handling of her claim since July 2018.  In particular, its failure to set a new resolution date 
promptly once the August  2018 date expired. Ive thought  carefully about the delays this 
caused, and the impact  all the issues caused by NHBC, since July 2018,  have  had on Ms S. 
Ive also thought carefully about the fact that the Buildmark policy  specifically excludes:
Not being able to use or enjoy your home  or the land, financial loss (such as loss of 
rent or other income), inconvenience  and distress.
Ref: DRN53095334Despite the above exclusion, NHBC has recognised  that it, and its agents, have caused 
Ms S unnecessary distress and has offered £500  compensation. Had it not done so, I would 
have awarded  compensation, taking into account the specific  circumstances of the 
complaint. But having  considered everything  that went wrong between July 2018  and 
completion of works, I think  the £500  offered by NHBC is enough  to fairly compensate Ms S 
for the impact these  issues had on her. Had NHBC not offered any compensation, I would 
have awarded  a similar amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms S complaint.  
National House-Building Council has already made an offer to pay £500 compensation to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that National House-Building Council should pay Ms S £500 
compensation  if it hasnt  already  done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5309533