K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is the trustee of a trust, which Ill refer to as L. He complains about the way a review 
of the trust account was carried out by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Background
HSBC wrote to Mr H on 20 November 2018 to notify him that they needed  to update  and 
confirm Ls details  as part of a safeguard  review  to protect customers from fraud and 
financial crime. HSBC told L the review needed to be completed by 3 February 2019 and 
asked him to contact  them on the phone number they provided as soon as possible. 
As HSBC didnt get a response from Mr H, they sent a reminder letter on 13 December  
2018. Both letters informed Mr H that if the information was not provided, HSBC would close 
the account. 
HSBC wrote to Mr H again on 5 February  2019 informing him that the account  would be 
closed on 9 April 2019 as they had been  unable to obtain the information  they required to 
confirm Ls details.  They said that if Mr H wanted  to retain the account then he needed to 
contact them  urgently so that a telephone review could be conducted. The letter said that 
HSBC hoped to be able to reverse the decision to close the account once the review was 
completed.
There was also a telephone message left for Mr H on 6 March asking him to contact HSBC 
to make an appointment for a safeguard  review.
A further  letter followed on 11 March confirming that the account  would  be closed on 9 April 
as the relevant information had still not been  received.  
Mr H said he had been travelling overseas  for an extended period, which he had advised  
HSBC of, so he only received  the correspondence  relating  to this review when he returned 
home. He contacted HSBC on his return and a telephone appointment was arranged  to 
conduct the review.   
The review  took place by telephone on 25 March and the information was sent by HSBCs 
reviewer to be quality  checked. 
On 9 April, the closure date HSBC had earmarked  for the account, HSBC put a block on Ls 
account for all transactions other than credits to the account.
On 10 April HSBC wrote to Mr H telling him that with effect from 9 April access to Ls 
account and all related services  had been withdrawn. But as Mr H lives overseas, he did not 
receive this letter until 20 April. 
HSBC contacted Mr H on 12 April, before he received their latest letter,  requesting some 
information they were  missing that was required as part of the review. The information was 
obtained on the day, and HSBC sent the completed  safeguard review  for approval. 
Around this time, Mr H experienced some issues  transferring  funds to a family member. This 
was due to the block  on Ls account but at that time he didnt  know the reason for it.
When Mr H received the letter on 20 April, he contacted HSBC and asked for the account to 
be re-instated or for an explanation about why this had happened so he could decide what  to 
do next. 
Ref: DRN50834202HSBC replied on 26 April and apologised for the inconvenience they had caused. They said 
this was an automated  letter which is sent when a review is not completed before the 
assigned closure  date. They said the block on the account would be lifted  once the review  
was completed.  
Ls account was reinstated on 30 April once the review had been  accepted  and approved.
Mr H already had a complaint about  a previous  review which was being investigated by our 
service. So, he spoke  to our investigator about  the issues  he was experiencing. The 
investigator told Mr H that this would need  to be a new complaint. And they contacted HSBC 
on Ls behalf to raise  the complaint.
A different investigator considered this complaint. He said it was necessary for the review to 
be carried out and he did not think that HSBC had done anything  wrong  as they had followed 
their process.  
Mr H didnt agree. He said that his complaint was not about the fact that the safeguard  
review was required, but about the manner in which it had been  carried  out and 
implemented.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  on 28 July 2020. I said the following:
I am aware  of the difficulties Mr H has had in relation  to an earlier review carried out by 
HSBC. I understand  his view that what happened  in the current  review is a continuation of 
HSBCs poor service.  
However, an ombudsman  has already looked  into the earlier  review  and issued  a final 
decision. Therefore,  I will only consider here what happened in relation to the second 
safeguard review, in particular whether  it was fair for HSBC to block  the account on 9 April 
and the impact this action  had on Mr H in his capacity as the trustee of L.
On 9 April, HSBC put a block on Ls account  as the safeguard review was ongoing.  They 
said their letter dated 10 April, but not received by Mr H until 20 April,  stated  access  to your 
account(s) and all related services has been withdrawn. They  said this is the terminology 
HSBC uses for access being withdrawn  to an account and inhibits  being  applied. In this 
case the account could still receive credits, but all other access was blocked. 
By the time this letter was sent, Mr H had provided the information requested  by HSBC for 
the safeguard  review.  They  had had almost three weeks  to complete the review by the date 
they said they would close the account.  HSBC had not requested anything further from Mr H 
by that time so I think it was reasonable for Mr H to assume that the account would continue 
to operate as normal. And I can understand why he was surprised by HSBCs  actions.
Whilst I accept  that HSBC may have needed some  time to process  the information, it doesnt  
seem fair for them to have applied this block on Ls account on 9 April, especially when Mr H 
had co-operated  with them by providing the information they needed, and without 
forewarning him. 
HSBC knew that once the account  was blocked Mr H wouldnt be able to carry out the 
regular transactions.  It also knew that Mr H was living abroad. Yet it chose to write to him 
Ref: DRN50834203about the block rather than contacting him via email or phone.  This added  to the confusion 
and caused distress to Mr H. 
Mr H told us that he was not advised that a block  had been applied to the account  or that a 
block being applied  was a possibility. When HSBC contacted  Mr H on 12 April seeking 
additional information, I think they knew  or should  have  known   that access  to the 
account had already been restricted. So, they had the opportunity to warn Mr H that he might  
receive an automatically generated letter or that access  to the account  might be restricted as 
the review hadnt  been fully completed. 
But the reviewer did not mention either  to Mr H. I think HSBC  shouldve informed Mr H this 
had happened. In fact, Mr H says that he had specifically asked if the account was going  to 
be closed. He recalls  saying that if it was then he would need  to make alternative  
arrangements for his pension transfers  and the standing orders  due on the account. But he 
says the reviewer  reassured him that the account wouldnt be closed. And I think  the 
reviewer shouldve realised that the restricted access to Ls account would cause similar 
issues for Mr H.
As mentioned earlier, due to the block L wasnt able to transfer money  to a family member  
who regularly received money from it. Mr H said he had to find alternative ways to transfer  
the money. He also said that following receipt  of the letter on 20 April, he had to spend 
considerable time on the phone with HSBC but was unable to resolve the issue.  It was only 
when he spoke to the reviewer again on 26 April that the block was explained to him. 
I consider that the block on Ls account and subsequent actions by HSBC  caused distress to 
Mr H as trustee and inconvenience to the trust. 
In summary,  I consider that HSBC  should not have restricted Mr Hs access  to Ls account. 
He had provided the information that was requested by the specified  deadline  for the closure 
of the account,  and they had three weeks to ask for any missing  information before the block  
to the account  was applied.
Furthermore, HSBC failed to forewarn  Mr H in a timely manner that they were going  to 
restrict access to Ls account. 
These actions caused distress and inconvenience  as detailed above.
In reaching my decision Ive taken  into account  that once the problem was identified  on 26 
April, it was resolved  quickly.  And although I cant consider  the merits of the previous 
complaint, I acknowledge that this has been something of an ongoing battle for Mr H which 
has caused him continued distress.
Taking all of the above into account I consider that a payment of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. Mr H didnt think £250 was a fair amount to compensate  
for the inconvenience  experienced and he asked that there would be no further safeguard  
reviews on Ls account. 
HSBC also responded with some further  thoughts on the matter.
They said in summary: 
Ref: DRN50834204All HSBC Commercial customers will be subject to these reviews from time to time 
and the account type L holds is the appropriate  one for the entity.
They didnt think I gave enough  consideration to the delays Mr H was responsible  for 
in the early stages  of the review process.  And they said it was likely the account 
would not have been restricted  had he engaged  with them earlier  in the process.
They said the role of the reviewer  was merely  to request information and they 
wouldnt be expected  to engage  with the customer about any other  details related to 
the account - including whether  a block had been  applied  to the account.
They confirmed that a regular payment wouldve been due to leave Ls account  
around the end of April, but they couldnt  see that Mr H had organised a one-off 
payment from the account to compensate for the one that was missed. And 
therefore, they couldnt understand what impact this caused  to Mr H or the 
beneficiary who was expecting the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will address the points raised in order  
below.
HSBC have confirmed  that the account type L holds is the appropriate  one for the purpose 
Mr H required  and will therefore continue to be subject to safeguard reviews. HSBC must  
take certain actions  in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations  so it would be 
inappropriate for me to ask them to stop carrying out these checks  on Ls account. 
I have considered all the information I have been provided with in relation to the delays in the 
early stages of the process. Mr H told us that he had been travelling overseas for an 
extended period  and he had advised  HSBC of this. Mr H said he contacted HSBC about the 
review on his return when  he saw the letters they had sent. So, I am satisfied that Mr H 
contacted HSBC as soon  as he became aware of the issue.
Regarding the reviewers  role, Mr H explicitly said he would need  to make alternative  
arrangements for his pension transfers  and the standing orders  due on the account if the 
account were to be closed. However, the reviewer reassured him that the account  wouldnt 
be closed. So, I therefore think  the reviewer mismanaged Mr Hs expectations irrespective of 
what his role was and shouldve realised that the restricted access to Ls account would 
cause issues for Mr H.
Mr H told us that he had to make alternative  arrangements to send  the regular payment that 
was not sent as a result  of the account  being  blocked. He didnt say that he sent it from Ls 
account, so I dont agree with HSBCs argument  on this point. Furthermore, HSBC have 
confirmed that there was a regular payment that was disrupted when they restricted the 
account, so this shows that inconvenience  was caused.
I understand that Mr H doesnt think the £250 I proposed in my provisional decision was a 
fair amount to compensate for the inconvenience  that had been caused.  However,  as I said 
in my provisional decision,  the issue was resolved quickly once it was identified,  so I am not 
going to ask HSBC to increase this amount.
Ref: DRN50834205Having considered all of the additional  submissions, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I direct  HSBC  Bank UK Plc to pay £250 to L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
L, to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083420