K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr K and Ms P says Scottish Building Society (Scottish B/Soc)  mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr K and 
Ms Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
For the sake of completeness, Scottish B/Soc  has provided us with evidence  that Mr K and 
Ms Ps mortgage account ended in 2004.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr K and Ms Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr K and Ms Ps. I havent set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr K and 
Ms Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Scottish B/Soc made it clear that Mr K and Ms P didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. I say this because Scottish B/Soc has provided  a copy of 
Mr K and Ms Ps mortgage application from the time. Looking at this I can see Mr K 
ticked a box to indicate he wanted cover  and in his sole name only.  He also signed  this 
section of the application  a separate signature from the mortgage declaration - to 
confirm his choice.  If Mr K didnt want PPI there  was a box he could have  ticked  in this 
section to indicate this.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr K chose  to take out PPI and he likely did so 
without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN51662632Scottish B/Soc didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr K and Ms P  Ive not seen anything to 
suggest it provided advice to Mr K and Ms P. So it didnt have to check  that the PPI was 
right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr K and Ms P enough clear and timely 
information so they could  decide  for themselves  if it was right for them.
While  the mortgage application provided an outline of the cover, including  how the cost 
was calculated and set out some  of the key exclusions  of cover, I still think  the 
information Scottish B/Soc  gave Mr K and Ms P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr K and Ms P  for 
example Mr K was eligible  for the cover,  there was nothing about  his occupation that 
would have made it difficult for him to claim and details about  his employment provided  
by Scottish B/Soc shows that Mr K was only entitled to statutory sick pay at the time he 
took out the cover. 
Although Mr K  has told us about some medical conditions  he suffered with some  time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont  think better  information about the existing medical  
condition exclusion wouldve caused them to change their minds  about taking out the 
policy. I say this because  the things Mr K has described happened between  18 and 25 
years prior to him taking out the policy. Hes not said or implied  that these conditions 
caused him ongoing problems such that I think it was likely hed have thought the main 
reason hed need to claim on the policy would be for these things. 
Finally I note there were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  health  or back  
problems. And at less than £10 a month it also looks like the cover was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for Mr K and Ms P if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr K and Ms P would have declined the cover  had Scottish 
B/Soc done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr K and Ms P would  have still taken  out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time; particularly 
given the policy was protecting their mortgage  and ultimately their home.  And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr K and Ms Ps representative has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  Scottish 
B/Soc should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
But Mr K and Ms Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr K and Ms Ps individual complaint   just that they apply  to all PPI 
complaints.
Ref: DRN51662633I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr K and Ms Ps particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  Scottish B/Soc  doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr K and Ms Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5166263