K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that misleading  information on Barclays Bank UK PLCs statements led 
him to send  money to a scammer which Barclays has been unable to recover.  
Mr C is representing his business BA. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to Mr C throughout 
this decision. 
background
Mr C received an order for items totalling  at £737.82.  On 23 October 2018, he received a 
payment into the business account for £2,737.82. The sender contacted  him to apologise for 
the overpayment  and request a return of the £2,000. Mr C checked  the statement which 
showed the description of the credit  as M1 OLDHAM  ASD. Mr C couldnt find any reference 
online for what ASD meant, but the funds  appeared to have credited the account, so he 
transferred the overpayment of £2,000 back to the sender via online banking  on 24 October.
The sender  then requested a full refund of the remaining £737.82. Mr C became  suspicious 
and called the business, who said they hadnt contacted  him. Mr C realised that a scammer 
had impersonated  the business  and tricked Mr C into sending them money. Mr C contacted 
Barclays on 25 October to make it aware  of the scam. It contacted the beneficiary bank on 
26 October to request  a return of the funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded 
on 6 November to advise no funds remained.  
Barclays informed Mr C that as he authorised  the payment and it followed his instructions, it 
hadnt made an error in sending the payment  of £2,000 and wouldnt be refunding  this. It 
also explained that the onus was on Mr C to know what payments are paid into his account 
and how they are paid.  Mr C referred  his complaint to our service.   
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and felt Barclays acted reasonably  when it followed 
Mr Cs instruction to make  the payment. And he felt that Barclays  had done enough to try 
and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. Having considered  the statements, he felt 
that while they could have  been clearer, they did show a deposit being made in a particular 
branch. And if Mr C was unclear what type of payment it was, he had the option of asking 
Barclays before making the transfer. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so 
the case has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN53612052But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr C when he transferred £2,000, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Having considered all of this, I think Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in allowing the 
transfer to leave Mr Cs account. And that it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds 
from the beneficiary bank.  I also dont  think  the information on the statement relating to the 
credit of £2,737.82  was misleading. So, I dont think Barclays needs to reimburse  Mr C with 
the £2,000 he lost. Ill explain  why in more detail.
Mr C has accepted that he made the transfer for £2,000 himself. Because of this, Barclays 
had an obligation  to follow Mr Cs instruction.  Ive considered whether Barclays  should  
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Looking  at the statements for the account, I dont think  the 
payment was particularly  unusual  or suspicious in comparison  to Mr Cs normal  account 
activity. For example, the value and payment type arent  remarkable,  I say this because  
Ref: DRN53612053there were regularly card and bill payments of similar or higher amounts. So, I think  the fact 
that Barclayss systems didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances.
Mr C contacted Barclays on 23 October  2018 when he became aware that hed been the 
victim of a scam. Barclays raised a scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary bank the 
next day to request a return of the funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank evidenced that 
the scammer  withdrew Mr Cs funds  on 23 October, the same day he transferred them. So, I 
think Barclays did all it could to try and recover the funds.  
Mr C says that he would never have  made  the transfer if he knew the £2,737.82 had been 
sent via cheque. The online statement at the time said M1 OLDHAM  ASD. Mr C says there 
was no mention on the Barclays  website that ASD meant the payment was an uncleared 
cheque. Because of this, he feels the business has suffered  a loss due to the misleading 
information and poorly presented bank statements. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and I can understand  Mr Cs strength of feeling around this 
point. Ive considered  whether the information about the payment on the statement was 
misleading or unclear. 
Id firstly  like to clarify what the entry on the statement means. An ASD is an assisted 
service device, which is an automated machine within  a Barclays branch that allows you to 
deposit money into different accounts. In this case,  the scammer used an ASD in the 
Oldham branch,  which is why the entry appears as it does  on Mr Cs statement. So, I think 
the entry is an accurate description of the payment  and it doesnt specifically mean the 
payment was an uncleared cheque. 
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy that the entry on his statement didnt clearly state the payment 
was made  via cheque. Mr C has said if hed known this, he would have realised the funds 
werent cleared  when  he sent the scammer the £2,000. I empathise with Mr Cs situation,  
and it seems likely the scammer  has taken  advantage of the banking system  in this scam. 
But I dont think the information Barclays did put on the statement was misleading,  as it still 
described how the payment was made. I do appreciate the abbreviation of ASD isnt 
common knowledge, but Mr C could have contacted Barclays  either  by phone or in a branch 
to query  this if he was unsure. I know this isnt the answer Mr C was hoping  for, but I hope  
this goes some way to explain  why I dont think Barclays  needs to do more in this case.
After carefully considering  everything available to me, I think  Barclayss decision not to 
refund Mr C in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It followed Mr Cs 
instruction to make the transfer of £2,000 and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt  
have done this. And I think  it took sufficient steps to try and recover  the funds in a timely 
manner once it was notified of the scam. 
Ref: DRN53612054my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5361205