K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Central (UK) Vehicle  Leasing  Limited (CVL), misrepresented the terms 
of a vehicle hire agreement for which it acted as credit broker.  He wants  it to settle the 
additional excess mileage  charges  for which hes been invoiced.
background
Mr G tells us that he responded to an email from CVL which offered a lease agreement with 
a mileage allowance of 5,000  miles per year. And that he told the sales representative that 
he needed an annual  mileage allowance of 8,000 miles. He states  that he was advised that 
this would cost an extra £30 per month plus VAT.  Mr G says he was further advised that it 
would be cheaper  to accept the 5,000 miles allowance  and pay the excess  mileage charge. 
Mr G says he was misled  and that he thinks that the charge  for the higher (8,000) mileage 
agreement should  only have been  £10 per month  plus VAT. He believes that he should only 
pay this amount and not the figure in excess of £600  that hes now been  charged.
CVL told us that Mr G had been  given the correct  information. It said the lower  mileage  
agreement that Mr G had taken out had been  subject of additional  financial  support.  And that 
this didnt necessarily  apply to other agreements. It said it had checked the details and 
confirmed the figure  quoted was correct.  It said that Mr G had been  made  aware hed be 
charged for excess miles at the end of the contract  period. And that this had been  confirmed 
in the agreement which Mr G had signed.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said hed reviewed  
the email trail and could see that discussions had included  mileage allowances  and vehicle 
specifications. He said that Mr G had been given  a quote of £30 per month plus VAT extra 
for an agreement with 8,000  miles allowance as opposed to 5,000 miles. And that hed also 
been advised that if his mileage was likely to be in excess of 7,000 miles hed also need a 
different quotation  to that of the 5,000  miles offer.  He said that Mr G had replied saying hed 
be happy with the 5,000 miles quote.  As Mr G had signed the agreement - for 5,000  miles - 
our adjudicator said that indicated he (Mr G) had understood the terms. And that thered 
been no misrepresentation.
Mr G didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his original complaint  Mr G made reference  to a potential breach of data protection  
legislation. Thats not something over which this service  directly  has jurisdiction. So my 
decision will not cover  this point.  Mr G may wish to seek further advice from the Information  
Commissioners Office.
I can understand that Mr G would  be concerned  to receive an extra charge for excess 
mileage that was greater  than he expected.
Mr Gs complaint amounts  to an allegation  of misrepresentation. He feels he was misled into 
taking an agreement which had a lesser mileage allowance  than he required. And that as a 
result hes been subject to a higher  excess mileage  charge.
Ref: DRN53420602A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Prior to signing the hire agreement, in November 2016, I can see there was an exchange of 
emails between Mr G and the sales representative.  On 3 and 4 October the emails 
discussed various mileage allowances and charge  rates for excess miles.  And the 
specification, including  the colour,  of the vehicle. 
On 3 October the agent stated in reply to Mr Gs query about how much  extra  an 8,000 miles 
allowance would cost that this would  be £30 plus VAT per month.
On 4 October the sales agent emailed:
How many miles per annum are you likely to do?
Will you do over 7,000 miles per annum?
If so I need  to get you an exact quote,  as the below  excess mileage rates, no apply.
Mr G responded:
Could I get I quote for 7000 miles please.
And later the same day he emailed:
Just weighed it up, ill be happy with the 5000  quote please.
Im satisfied that Mr G was given all the relevant  information on which to make an informed 
choice. I think its clear  from the email exchanges  that hed considered his options and had 
decided to choose the 5,000 mileage allowance. 
Ive seen no information which would make me think that the original quote for £30 plus VAT 
per month difference between the 5,000 mile agreement and that for 8,000 miles was 
inaccurate. And Mr G hasnt provided anything to contradict this.
In summary,  Ive not seen any information  which would lead me to believe that there was 
any misrepresentation of this agreement.  Mr G stated that hed weighed it up. I infer that 
hed made  his own calculations based on his anticipated mileage and had chosen  to go with 
the agreement  for the lower mileage allowance.  Im not able to say if he may have  
miscalculated. But even  if that were  so it wouldnt be something for which CVL was 
responsible. The £30 plus VAT per month  that he was quoted at the time was accurate. If 
other offers became  available - which mightve been better value - thats not something 
which is of direct relevance to this complaint.  Businesses  will no doubt change the terms on 
which offers  are made  in the light of demand.
Im aware Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. But Ive reached the same conclusion  
as our adjudicator  and for similar reasons. Accordingly,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN53420603my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342060