K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about BUPA Insurance Limited.  
background
Mrs C held a policy with BUPA,  and tried to claim under this in 2018. She was informed that 
BUPA had cancelled  such  policies in 2017. Mrs C wasnt happy and felt that BUPA should 
refund all the premiums  paid under  her policy, when BUPA didnt  agree  she complained to 
us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs C 
objected the case  has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding Mrs Cs complaint either,  for the same  reasons as the adjudicator.  
Mrs C held her policy  for some time and it is regrettable BUPA chose to cancel these 
particular policies, but I can find no guarantee that they would offer them indefinitely.  When 
BUPA decided to cancel  them they wrote to Mrs C stating what would happen, offering 
alternative cover, and offering  to discuss matters further if she wished. As Mrs C didnt 
respond the policy ceased. 
I realise most of the problems here have arisen as Mrs C states she didnt receive the 
communication from BUPA detailing these matters.  But, the same as the adjudicator, I cant 
say this is BUPAs fault. They used  the address they had for Mrs C and the letter wasnt 
returned to them. They couldnt have known that Mrs C had changed address, as she had 
not told them. Equally if Mrs C had arranged for post to be redirected to her, or returned to 
sender then this might  not have happened. I cannot though say BUPA did anything  wrong  to 
the extent necessary to make them liable here. 
As I have said it is unfortunate BUPA stopped Mrs Cs policy, but I think  they did enough in 
writing to her and offering alternative cover or a discussion about how to progress. 
my final decision
I make  no award against BUPA Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5192649