K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs E holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.  
She took it out in 2004 and added to it with further  advances in 2006  and 2010.  The main  
thrust of Mrs Es complaint is:
the 2006 further advance was mis-sold because it was recorded  as being £71,000 when 
she only borrowed £5,000;
the buildings insurance was mis-sold at the start; shes  unhappy with how it has been 
charged and which  company  the cover has been  placed  with; and
Halifax split the mortgage into sub accounts without her consent,  gave her misleading 
information about them, and has closed one down to its own advantage.
background
By way of a decision dated 12 August 2019,  I decided that our jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint was restricted to just the last of the above points; that is, that Halifax split the 
mortgage into sub accounts without her consent, gave her misleading information  about 
them, and has closed  one down to its own advantage.
The investigator assigned  to Mrs Es complaint looked into this one point and wasnt 
persuaded the sub accounts had been  wrongly  administered or that Mrs E had lost out 
financially. But he agreed the business  had given Mrs E confusing information  during a 
phone call when she asked how the sub accounts worked. But he thought  Bank of Scotland 
had made  a reasonable offer of compensation for this.
Mrs E doesnt agree,  so it falls to me to determine the complaint, to the extent that my remit 
allows me to.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In early 2013, Bank of Scotland made changes to the way it administers borrowers 
mortgage accounts. This change involves the creation of sub-accounts within the main 
mortgage account, with the intention,  as I understand it, of allowing the business to identify 
and manage different  elements of the mortgage  balance. 
The new process  was largely internal, but borrowers  were  informed of the change through a 
mailing exercise, not least because,  as part of the restructure, Halifax recalculated  
borrowers contractual monthly payments. The restructure means that borrowers  mortgage  
accounts look different  from before, but in the case  before  me, I am not persuaded Mrs E 
has demonstrated that shes been disadvantaged  by the change.  
One material change  from the old system is that the business apportions  all payments 
equally across the sub accounts according to their respective balances. Previously, it 
prioritised the apportionment of payments according  to the interest  rate being charged,  with 
the highest rate first. However, all of Mrs Es sub account balances  are charged at the same  
rate, so theres no detriment to her.
Ref: DRN51912562Yes, Mrs E was given a misleading explanation  when she rang to find out how the sub 
accounts work; but again, theres no suggestion  shes suffered any financial detriment  as a 
result. For the relatively minor inconvenience  caused, the £50 compensation the business 
has offered her is fair in all the circumstances.  I leave it to Mrs E to decide if she wishes  to 
accept it or not. She can do that by contacting the business directly;  our involvement in her 
complaint is now over.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5191256