K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  three payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies  with three loans taken out in 1999.
Background
Mr and Mrs T applied  for a loan of £1,000  in April 1999 (loan  1). At the same  time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The loan was in joint names but the PPI only covered Mr T against being  
unable to work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. The PPI premium 
was £90.66 and was added to the loan.  The loan was to be repaid over 24 months.
However, in May 1999 Mr and Mrs T applied for a loan of £5,000  (loan 2), part of which was 
used to repay loan 1. From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs T did not make any payments to    
loan 1 before it was refinanced by loan 2. At the same time the PPI sold with loan 1 was 
cancelled and the premium refunded. Mr and Mrs T were also sold a PPI policy with loan 2. 
This policy also covered  Mr T only against  accident, sickness and involuntary 
unemployment. The premium for this policy  was £1,256.43 which was added  to the main 
loan.
In October  1999 Mr T took out a loan for £6,200  in his name only (loan 3). Part of which  was 
used to repay loan 2. The PPI policy taken out with loan 2 was cancelled  and Mr and Mrs T 
received a partial refund of the premium  which was used to reduce the outstanding balance 
of loan 2. Mr T was sold a PPI policy with loan 3. The premium  for the policy  was £1,514.33 
which was added to the loan. The policy again  covered Mr T against being  unable to work  
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.  Loan 3 was intended  to be repaid over 
84 months.
My understanding is that Mr T got into arrears with loan 3 and the outstanding debt was sold 
to a third party in 2010.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI policies  were mis-sold to Mr and Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so Im not intending to find the policies were mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T have  said the PPI was either added to the loans without their consent or they 
were told they had to have it. Nationwide has supplied the credit agreement  and loan 
applications for all three  loans. I can see that on all three credit agreements  the PPI is set 
out separately to the main loan and is described  as optional.
The loans all appear to have been  applied for by post. I can see that all three applications  
have a section  related  to PPI. And all three applications allowed Mr and Mrs T to either  tick a 
box requesting the PPI or to tick a separate box to decline it.
Ref: DRN56152252The application forms for loans 2 and 3 show that Mr and Mrs T ticked the box requesting 
that PPI was added  to the loans.
The application form for loan 1 shows they ticked the box to decline the PPI. However 
Nationwide has provided us with a copy of the form used to process the loan.  This shows 
that the PPI was added  following a telephone call between Mr T and Nationwide. No 
recording of the telephone  call is available. But that is understandable given the length of 
time that has passed. And it seems  that when Mr and Mrs T applied  for loan 2, less than a 
month later, they opted to take out PPI when completing the application form themselves. 
And in any event, Mr and Mrs T refinanced loan1  and the PPI was cancelled before they 
made any repayment. 
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely Mr and Mrs T were  made aware  the 
policies were optional  and they chose  to take them out  although after 20 years I can 
understand if they cant remember  this.
Because the policies seem to have  been applied for by post and telephone I dont think 
Nationwide would have  given Mr and Mrs T personal recommendations to buy the PPI 
policies. So it didnt  have  to check the policies were  right for them.  But it did have to make  
sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they needed  to decide if they were was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI policies- so it looks like they 
were interested in this type of cover. 
The policies all covered  Mr T only. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
- so he would  have been able to make a claim and the policies would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  
Mr T has said he would have  received some  sick pay from his employer if he was unable to 
work. But these particular PPI policies couldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for much  longer than Mr Ts sick pay would last. 
Mr and Mrs T have  told us they had some  savings, but they were taking out a loan so it looks 
like their savings were  something they wanted to keep intact, and the PPI policies would 
have allowed them to do that if Mr T became unable to work.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the point  of sale.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs T off taking out the cover.  
So taking everything into account I think its likely the PPI policies were presented to 
Mr and Mrs T as being optional and they chose to buy them. And even if Nationwide had 
given Mr and Mrs T all the clear information  it shouldve, I still think  they would have gone 
ahead and taken  out the policies. So I dont the policies  were mis-sold.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs T.
But for the PPI sold with loan 3 Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to      
Mr and Mrs T because: 
Ref: DRN56152253When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs T about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  says there  have  been other court  cases in relation to         
non-disclosure of commission  where  consumers have received everything  back.  So they 
think Nationwide should refund all of the money paid for PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Nationwide has made  Mr and Mrs T an offer of compensation in relation to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But        
Mr and Mrs T want Nationwide to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs T and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress  for 
Mr and Mrs T. But there isnt anything about their complaint or circumstances that suggest  
the redress paid by Nationwide isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Nationwides offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what Nationwide needs to do
For the 1999 PPI policy  Nationwide  should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra  they paid 
each month  on the loan because the commission and profit share was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium - including any extra Mr and Mrs T paid if the loan was paid off early. 
Nationwide should  also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple  interest  on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies sold in April and May 1999 were not mis-sold and I make  no award against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
The PPI policy sold in October 1999  PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  so Nationwide does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But for the October 1999 PPI only Nationwide  Building Society does have  to pay back  to    
Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Ref: DRN56152254Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5615225