K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains about how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) has handled a claim made  on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to reconsider 
the claim fairly. 
background 
Miss C is a named driver on her fathers policy. She was involved in an incident  where  she 
said the two cars collided  whilst she was parking. Miss C said NFU initially  held her as not at 
fault. But it later said she was at fault. Miss C said NFU provided a poor level of service  in 
keeping her informed  and responding to her calls. The other driver later produced an 
independent witness.  But Miss C said she was suspicious about how honest this was. 
NFU said it had changed its liability decision after considering the circumstances of the 
incident. But it said Miss C had been  wrongly told initially that she wouldnt be held liable. It 
said it would  investigate Miss Cs concerns about the witness  further. But it then didnt think  
this was necessary.   
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought NFU 
had dealt with the claim  fairly, as it was entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions.  But 
he thought it could have given Miss C clearer information during  the claim. He thought  NFU 
should pay Miss C £100 compensation for the upset  this caused her. 
NFU agreed to do this. But Miss C said there  were  inconsistencies in the evidence  NFU 
relied on. She thought  the witness was fraudulent. She said shed been honest  from the 
start. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Cs upset  and frustration about NFUs decision. She said she had 
started reversing out of the car parking space when she saw the other car and so she had 
pulled back  in. But the other car hit her before she was fully in. NFUs agent  told her that this 
would be a non-fault claim before  this was corrected a few days later. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
I think NFU is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss C to take over,  
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Miss C has to follow  its advice in connection  with the 
settlement of her claim, whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said,  we expect  insurers to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider  the evidence  
available before making a decision on liability.
Ref: DRN51573742I can see that NFU considered Miss Cs version  of events. It looked at photographs shed 
taken that showed the location of her car in the parking space. It looked at a photograph of 
the damage to her car which it thought was consistent with her reversing into the other car. It 
considered the witness statement and thought it confirmed that Miss C was liable. It didnt 
have any evidence to question the authenticity of the independent witness.  
So NFU concluded  that the evidence showed  that Miss C had pulled out in front of an 
oncoming car. It thought it would be unlikely to defend this matter. So it settled  the other 
drivers claim  and held Miss C at fault. I can appreciate Miss C is adamant  that she had 
pulled back  into the space. But I think NFU has decided liability  after reasonably  
investigating the claim and considering the evidence and its chances of defending it if it went  
to court.  So I cant say its done  anything wrong  here or require it change  its stance.
I can understand that Miss C is suspicious about  the authenticity of the witness.  But this isnt 
something that I can consider here as I cant see that NFU had any cause  to doubt her 
account. 
NFU has agreed that its service to Miss C has been  wanting. It led her to believe that her 
claim would be non-fault  and then told her otherwise. Its agreed to pay her £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this loss of expectation caused. I think  thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id award in similar  circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited to pay Miss C £100  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service,  as its already agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157374