K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wrongly refused to pay a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy and then cancelled the policy.
background
Mrs H told UKI that on 3 April 2019  shed  swerved to avoid a car emerging from a side 
street. She said her car hit a car coming from the other direction on the other  side of the 
road. UKI viewed images of the car on 8 April 2019 and then sent the evidence  to a forensic 
engineer. He didnt think  the damage  caused  to either car was consistent with the incident 
reported by Mrs H. UKI also noted that Mrs H hadnt told it about  a claim she made in 2017. 
In that case another insurer thought an accident didnt happen as Mrs H had said.   
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Hs complaint against  UKI. She thought it had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policys terms and conditions. Mrs H said the engineer hadnt 
inspected her car. She said UKI should  believe the person  who was in the car at the time. As 
there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Mrs Hs policy says UKI wont pay a claim thats fraudulent,  false  or exaggerated. It says if 
someone knowingly  makes such a claim the policy may be cancelled  and the claim rejected.  
UKI had concerns about whether the damage  matched the details it had been given about 
the accident. So I think it was reasonable for it to send the accident details and images  of 
Mrs Hs car to a forensic engineer. It also sent him images of the other drivers car. 
Mrs H was given a copy of the engineers report. There was a great deal of detail in it about 
the damage. The engineer gave  a full explanation of why it wasnt consistent  with the 
collision Mrs H had set out. The engineer said the damage showed the other car was 
stationary when the damage was done.  He said Mrs Hs car had scraped lightly along its 
entire side. He said there was no impact mark to show shed swerved into it. And there  was 
no evidence that shed then pulled away from it. He thought the location of the accident 
didnt support Mrs Hs account either  although  she later said it happened elsewhere.    
I think it was reasonable  for UKI to rely on the opinion of an expert engineer with lengthy 
experience in accident reconstruction. I dont think it makes any difference that he didnt 
examine Mrs Hs car in person. The images  were very clear. And I think its highly likely that 
if the engineer  had thought he needed to see the car he would have arranged  to do so. 
Given the content of the engineers report, I think it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that 
the accident didnt happen  in the way Mrs H said it did. Mrs H wasnt able to explain the lack 
of consistency  between the damage and her account of the accident. I dont think the fact 
that she was in the car at the time carries  any weight when the physical evidence  shows  that 
her account  isnt accurate.
Ref: DRN58728842In the circumstances I think UKI was entitled  to rely on the policy term that deals with 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated claims. I think it was reasonable for it not to pay the claim 
and to cancel  the policy.
I can see that Mrs H also complained about being without a courtesy car and about UKI 
taking time to carry out its investigations. Mrs H wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as her car 
wasnt being repaired. UKI was entitled to carry out investigations when it had concerns 
about the claim. I think it did so promptly. So I dont think these concerns were valid.
As I think  UKI acted  reasonably in all respects,  Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
Mt final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5872884