K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Capital One (Europe) plc acted  irresponsibly when it gave him a credit 
card account.
background
In October  2015, Mr E opened a credit  card account with Capital  One  he was given a 
credit limit of £200.
Mr E says Capital One mis-sold him the credit  card because he had a very poor credit 
history at the time.  He doesnt believe  Capital  One carried out the appropriate checks before 
it agreed to lend to him. As a result of these things, Mr E says he has been caused  
additional financial hardship, debt and poverty.  And he thinks Capital One should refund of 
all the charges that have been applied to the credit  card account and pay compensation for 
his losses.
Capital One says it took into account  the details Mr E had provided on his credit card 
application and it also assessed information  from credit reference agencies  before it agreed 
to lend to him. Based  on this it thought  the credit limit it gave Mr E was affordable.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He didnt think it was inappropriate for 
Capital One to lend to Mr E in the way it did. But Mr E disagreed. He said he wasnt  asked 
about his income  or expenditure before Capital One gave him the account so it didnt take 
the right steps  to check the lending was affordable.  Because  Mr E disagreed with our 
investigators opinion,  so the complaint  has been  passed to me for a decision on the matter.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find Ive reached the 
same overall conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
Before lending to a customer, we expect businesses to perform some checks  to ensure that 
the money can be repaid. The Financial Ombudsman Service  cant  tell businesses which 
checks need to be carried out  this is for a lender  to decide. But we do expect a business to 
be able to show that they carried  out reasonable and proportionate checks in the 
circumstances.
Looking at when  Mr E applied for the credit  card, I can see his credit file showed some past 
problems. However, these dated back  a few years, there was no recent adverse information, 
and his existing  borrowing  wasnt in arrears. Also, despite what Mr E says, Im satisfied 
Capital One did gather information about his income and expenditure  specifically about his 
existing debts  as part of his application.  And after assessing this information,  Capital One 
gave Mr E a relatively small credit limit of £200.  
Ive looked at Mr Es credit card statements and can see that when he first took out the card,  
he made a number of repayments. For example. in November 2015  and December 2015 the 
repayments were much  higher than the minimum monthly amount that was due. That 
suggests to me that Mr E could afford  the repayments on the card when he initially took it 
out.
Ref: DRN55421802It was only after a few months of having  the card that Mr E started to miss payments, incur 
charges and go over the credit limit - which eventually caused  the account  to be defaulted.  
After considering the checks Capital One made on Mr E before giving him the credit along 
with the credit limit it gave  him I cant agree that Capital  One didnt carry out appropriate 
checks. Based on the information  Capital  One had at the time, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to have given Mr E a credit card with a £200  limit. So it wouldnt be fair 
for me to tell Capital One to compensate Mr E in the way hes described.  
Mr E has said he fell into financial  difficulty as a result of this credit card debt. I dont doubt 
events that happened after Mr E took out the card may have caused him financial problems. 
But, as I dont think it was wrong of Capital one to lend him the money  it did, I cant hold it 
responsible for all the problems Mr E faced. When a business, like Capital  One, is made 
aware that its customer is in financial difficulty, it has a duty to treat them  positively and 
sympathetically. In this case,  I can see that Capital One tried to contact Me E and referred 
him to debt management  organisations when it noticed he was starting to struggle 
financially. And, in August  2016  it defaulted his account, which  prevented further charges 
and interest being  added to the debt.  Mr E says he didnt receive Capital  Ones  letters  
because he had moved house but it doesnt look like he updated his address. In the 
circumstances I cant fairly say that Capital One did anything wrong at this later point either.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5542180