K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Crusader Uninsured  Loss Recovery Service Limited failed to make  a 
claim on time.
Mrs P is being represented in this complaint by Mr C. But, for ease of reference, Ill just refer 
to Mrs P throughout  my decision.
background
Mrs P was involved  in a non-fault road traffic  accident on 1 June 2017  in Spain. And her car 
was written off as a result  of the accident  damage. While her insurance  company were 
dealing with the claim itself, Mrs P also wanted  to claim for her uninsured losses.  She used 
Crusader to do this.
She first contacted  Crusader on 11 October  2017 and sent them  some  initial  information. 
Crusader sent Mrs P a Liability Questionnaire on 7 November 2017  and chased her for this 
in November 2017 and February 2018.  Mrs P told Crusader  she was having  problems 
emailing the paperwork  to them, and Crusader provided an alternative email  address. They  
also sent her a Liability  Questionnaire by post.
In March 2018 Crusader again chased  the liability questionnaire and told Mrs P theyd 
accept the Statement  of Truth shed given her insurance company instead. Mrs P asked her 
insurance company  to send this to Crusader.  Crusader didnt receive this until 5 June 2018  
more than 12-months after the accident and outside of the timescale for making a claim. 
Crusader submitted the claim, unaware that it was out of time.  The claim wasnt accepted.
Mrs P complained that Crusader failed to make  the uninsured losses claim on time. And now 
shes lost her opportunity  to do this. She feels  that Crusader did this deliberately,  because  
they didnt want  to help her. And she cant understand why her emails  to Crusader werent 
delivered, when  shed had no problems emailing  other businesses. She was unhappy with 
Crusaders response  and brought her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman  service) for investigation.
Our investigator said there was a 12-month  limit to make this claim, and Crusader  shouldve  
known this. But she didnt  hold Crusader wholly responsible for missing  the timescale. She 
said Mrs P hadnt submitted the Liability Questionnaire,  and despite being  chased, the 
insurance company  delayed in sending over the Statement of Truth.
While she didnt think Crusader had done anything deliberately, the investigator thought that 
if Crusader had known  about, and made everyone aware of, the 12-month time limit for 
making a claim, things  may have  been  different. Because of this, Mrs P lost her opportunity 
to claim the uninsured losses. And she thought Crusader needed to do something about this.
The investigator said it would never  be known, if the claim had been made on time,  whether 
it wouldve  been successful. And if it had been successful, it wasnt  possible to say how 
much wouldve been paid out. So the investigator didnt think  it was fair to ask Crusader to 
pay Mrs P what she considered was the full value of her claim. Instead she recommended 
Crusader pay Mrs P £500 to recognise the frustration and upset  caused  by her never 
knowing what, if anything, couldve happened to her claim. 
Ref: DRN53759782Crusader accepted the investigators view, but Mrs P didnt. She said that the extent of her 
uninsured losses  wasnt known until 31 January 2018, and she was unable to open  
Crusaders email containing the Liability  Questionnaire.  Shes  said she feels her insurance 
company Fail to Honour the Commitments  they give when taking our Insurance Money for 
the Policy {and they did} absolutely nothing to Change  Crusaders  Behaviour.
Mrs P also feels  that her insurance policy was mis-sold. Shes said her insurance company 
and Crusader conspired together  to ensure the Claim  would fail and the should  be Held 
accountable for All the Stress and Monetary Expense they have  Inflicted on us. So Mrs P 
has asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will be a disappointment to Mrs P; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Crusader are a regulated  Accident Management Company (AMC). Up until 31 March  2019, 
AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And complaints about AMCs 
were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of AMCs switched 
to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman. Because the events Mrs P is complaining about took place before this change 
in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims Management  Regulator  and 
Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
Ive also noted  Mrs Ps comments about  her insurance company, and what she considers 
are their failings. But Im considering the service  provided by Crusader, not the insurance 
company. So my decision will only address what Crusader did or didnt do. If Mrs P remains 
unhappy with her insurance  company,  shell need  to raise this complaint with them directly.
The time limits for making a claim differ between the UK and Spain. And its not disputed that 
Crusader werent aware of this when they shouldve been. Because of this they didnt tell 
Mrs P that she only had 12-months  to make her claim. Im in agreement  with the investigator 
that Crusader  shouldve done  better,  and they need to do something to put things right.
Mrs P has said she wasnt in a position to submit her claim until 31 January 2018  some 
eight months after the accident. So the claim couldnt have been made before this point, 
regardless of any other  circumstances. And at this point Crusader had already sent Mrs P a 
Liability Questionnaire for completion  and chased  for her its return. But Mrs P said she 
wasnt able to open this email, and she was unable to email  anything to Crusader.
Mrs P said she was able to open  and send other emails,  and Crusader havent  said there 
were any problems with their email server.  So Im unable to say what the problem was with 
her emails  to and from Crusader at this point. 
But I dont think Crusader  were deliberately  blocking the emails from Mrs P, which  is what 
shes said she thinks was happening  I can see no logical  reason why theyd do this. And 
Ive seen nothing  to show me that Crusader were  conspiring with Mrs Ps insurance 
company to act against her interests  this was a non- fault accident so, again, theres no 
logical reason why they would do this.
Ref: DRN53759783Mrs P first made Crusader aware of her IT issues on 14 February 2018. And Crusader sent 
her a Liability Questionnaire in the post the following day. After chasing  Mrs P for the Liability 
Questionnaire on 14 March, Crusader told Mrs P theyd accept the Statement of Truth that 
was sent to her insurance company instead.  And on 19 March Mrs P said shed asked the 
insurance company  to provide this. Crusader chased Mrs P for the documents, and they 
were eventually received  on 5 June 2018.
Crusaders policy was they needed  both a Liability Questionnaire and evidence  before they 
could submit a claim. Theyve also said that, in this instance, they were prepared  to accept 
the Statement of Truth  instead of the Liability Questionnaire. Mrs P couldve completed the 
Liability Questionnaire instead of asking her insurers  to send the Statement of Truth to 
Crusader. But she chose  not to.
Mrs P sent Crusader a breakdown of the uninsured losses she was claiming  on 31 January 
2018, along with her evidence to support this. Ive seen what  she was claiming for included 
things such as unused  warranty  on her car, the installation of a tracker system, taking 
professional advice on submitting an insurance claim, her insurance  policy  excess  and the 
cost of insuring a replacement car. This claim came to £9,937. 
Unfortunately this breakdown and evidence by itself wasnt enough to make  the claim.
Mrs P may have acted  differently in March 2018 if shed known that she only had until the 
end of May 2018  to make  her claim.  But I dont think she would. Because Mrs P couldve  
completed the Liability Questionnaire when it was sent to her in February 2018 but didnt; I 
think its more likely  that not shed still have asked  her insurance company to send the 
Statement of Truth if shed known about the time limit.
I think the only difference wouldve been  that the insurance company wouldve been  chased 
more times  than they were as the deadline  approached. And, because  the insurance 
company werent  part of the uninsured losses claim,  I cant  say that more  chasing would 
definitely have  led to quicker results.
So Im also in agreement  with the investigator that Crusader  cant  be held solely  liable for the 
delays in the claim being made.
So, when looking at whats  a fair and reasonable remedy,  I also need to consider  its not my 
role to underwrite the uninsured losses claim and say how much, if anything, Mrs P wouldve 
got. However, I have  given some consideration to some of the things Mrs P was claiming for. 
I can see that items such as professional advice, insuring a new car and the installation of a 
tracker system (which wouldve been accounted for when the pre-accident value of her car 
was assessed) would  more than likely  have  been challenged by the Spanish insurer. And 
Mrs P had also received  her excess back from her insurance company.
So, while I cant say what Mrs P wouldve received if her claim had been accepted  and was 
successful; I think its highly unlikely  it wouldve been  the £9,337 she originally claimed for. 
For the reasons  stated,  I dont think its fair to ask Crusader to pay Mrs P the £9,337 she 
originally claimed for. And because I cant be certain  her claim wouldve even been 
successful, I wont be asking them to pay out a percentage  of her claim. This is also the 
approach the Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken.
Ref: DRN53759784But I agree  that Mrs P will always have the frustration of not knowing what  mightve  
happened. The £500 recommended by the investigator for this is in line with what  the Legal  
Ombudsman wouldve  directed in similar  circumstances. So I see no compelling reason not 
to adopt this as my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Crusader Uninsured Loss 
Recovery Service Limited must pay Mrs P £500  in compensation for the loss of opportunity  
shes suffered in not being able to have her claim considered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5375978