K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCUL)  mis-sold  him 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) with a loan.
background and summary to complaint
Mr A told us that he took out PPI at the same  time as taking out a loan sometime  around 
2005/2006. Its not known  how much Mr A borrowed and over what term or what the cost of 
the PPI was - Mr A hasnt got any documentation  from the time of the sale and LCCUL  
hasnt responded  to our request for its business file.
In the absence of anything  to suggest otherwise, it seems reasonable to conclude the 
following:
things happened  during a meeting in-branch;
the policy Mr A bought  was most  likely  a regular  premium policy; and 
the PPI provided  cover for the traditional elements of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
What is known is that at time of the sale Mr A was employed in construction;  he was entitled  
to at least three months sick pay; he didnt have  any other means he couldve used to make  
the repayments on his loan if he was unable to work; and he was in good health at the time.
I issued my provisional decision of July 2021 in which I said I was likely to uphold  the 
complaint and award compensation  in favour of Mr A because I hadnt  seen  any evidence to 
show that LCCUL made it clear the PPI was optional  and that Mr A chose to take it out. I 
issued a provisional decision to give LCCUL one further opportunity  to engage  with this 
complaint and provide its business  file.
Mr A replied  and said he had nothing further  to add.
LCCUL didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and make  an award in favour of Mr A. 
My reasons  are set out below.
Once again, it is disappointing  that LCCUL hasnt engaged with Mr As complaint and 
provided us with its business file. But Mr A has said LCCUL  sold him PPI and in the absence 
of evidence to the contrary  it seems  reasonable for me to conclude  that, LCCUL  likely did 
sell Mr A PPI as hes described. LCCUL has had plenty of opportunity  to challenge  this.
did LCCUL give Mr A a clear choice about  PPI?
Ref: DRN57305312LCCUL had to make it clear to Mr A that PPI was optional  it also had to have  Mr As 
express consent to set the policy up.
Mr A has made a complaint that LCCUL mis-sold  him PPI. LCCUL  hasnt provided any 
information or documentation to show how it sold Mr A PPI  including  importantly whether it 
made it clear  that Mr A had a real choice about  taking the policy  out and getting his express  
consent to set the policy up. Because in my experience I consider this to be one of the most 
common failings when  selling PPI (it is also widely documented  as being so) given the 
assumed date of sale and the lack of evidence about how LCCUL introduced, positioned  and 
sold Mr A PPI at this time,  Im not persuaded that LCCUL acted fairly and reasonably 
towards him. Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded LCCUL gave Mr A a real 
choice and that he agreed to it on that basis.
Because I consider this to be sufficient  reason to uphold  this complaint, its not necessary for 
me to make findings  on any other  possible failings in the sale of PPI to Mr A.
As I have concluded that Mr A has lost out as a result of the things done or not done by 
LCCUL when it sold him PPI, LCCUL needs  to do something to put things right.
putting things right
LCCUL should put Mr A in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. On 
the assumption that the policy in question  was a regular premium  policy, the policy should be 
cancelled if it hasnt  been cancelled already and LCCUL should:
Pay Mr A the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, LCCUL can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. It can also deduct any amounts its 
already paid regarding commission and profit share if applicable.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LCCUL to take off tax from this interest.  LCCUL  must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint  and I direct  London 
Community Credit  Union Limited to pay Mr A compensation as Ive detailed above.  I make 
no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5730531