K820x#14complaint
Ms J says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or
reject my decision  before  21  November  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a
Barclaycard Reserve Account  in 1995. Ms J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Ms J took out a PPI policy  at the same time as her Reserve Account was opened in 1995.
Barclays say the Reserve Account was separate from but linked  to a Barclaycard account  was 
opened earlier  in August 1993. In February 1999 the Reserve Account was closed and the remaining 
account balance  transferred to a new Barclaycard  account. The evidence suggests the PPI carried on 
Ref: DRN50776392to the new Barclaycard account in 1999. This Barclaycard account closed  in November 1999.  Ms J 
says the PPI was mis-sold to her.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Ms Js case.
Ms J has sent us a considerable amount  of paperwork,  and its clear she has spent  time putting  this 
together. While I wont refer directly to everything she has sent us I want  to assure Ms J that Ive 
carefully examined and considered everything she has sent us. I currently dont think the policy wasnt 
mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms J says PPI was added to her Reserve Account without her permission. The evidence suggests Ms 
Js PPI policy  was sold over the phone. Unfortunately no call recording or copy  of the call script is 
available  but this isnt surprising considering the length of time since the sale. Barclays has provided 
some of Ms Js Reserve Account statements where PPI appears. If Ms J hadnt consented  to the 
policy she couldve questioned it when  PPI began appearing  on her statements.  And I cant see that 
she did so. On balance, and without further persuasive evidence to support what  Ms J has told us. I 
think its more  likely  Barclays  made it clear that Ms J didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Ms J so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based  
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for 
the cover.  Ms J says she was entitled  to some  sick pay from her employer. She also says she cant 
remember how much savings she had. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any sick pay she 
wouldve received and for up to 12 months  if she was unable to work because of accident or sickness.  
It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job. So I think she wouldve  found the 
policy useful.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover,  and I dont think Ms J 
has lost out as a result  of anything  Barclays did wrong.
Ms J is unhappy  about her PPI carrying  on to her new Barclaycard account in 1999 when her Reserve 
Account closed. She says she wasnt aware  that this had happened and had no choice in it. Ive 
thought carefully about this. But Ive seen  a copy of a letter from Barclays  to Ms J dated 23 February 
1999. It explains  that her Reserve  Account is being closed and the remaining  account balance 
transferred to a new Barclaycard account.  This letter also says if you had reserve payment 
protection, the premium will continue to be debited to your new account. So I think  she would have,  
or ought reasonably  to have been aware of her Reserve Account being  transferred to a new 
Barclaycard account, and that PPI was also being transferred.  If Ms J had been unhappy about this at 
the time, she couldve  raised it with Barclays  when she received this letter. I cant see anything  to 
suggest she did so.
Based on everything  Ive seen I dont think Ms J lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong.
Ref: DRN5077639