K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that the car she acquired  through a conditional  sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  had a fault. She wants the repairs  paid for by Moneybarn.
background 
Miss W entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in October  2017.  She had 
the air-conditioning unit re-gassed in April 2018  and complained that this was leaking in June 
2018.
Moneybarn says that Miss W reported the issue more than six months  after acquisition. It 
says the dealer said it was unwilling to get involved  in repairs due to the eight months that 
had past since  the car was provided.  The dealer  also said that the car was fit for purpose at 
the point of supply. It noted that Miss W had covered over 10,000  miles since  acquiring the 
car. 
Moneybarn says that it is up to Miss W to show that the car was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Our investigator understood that Miss W didnt raise the issue  with the air-conditioning within 
six months of acquisition. But said it was reasonable to accept that she had not used the air-
conditioning from acquisition until April 2018  and so it was only at that point  that she would 
have been reasonably aware of any issues. He noted that Miss W paid for the air-
conditioning to be re-gassed when she first wanted  to use it and at this point realised there  
was a fault. Based on this he recommended that Moneybarn pay for the repairs required to 
get the air-conditioning system working  and refund  Miss W 10% of her monthly instalments 
from April 2018 to September 2018.
Moneybarn did not accept our investigators view. It noted that air-conditioning is a wear and 
tear item and reiterated  that Miss W had not provided evidence to say there was a fault 
present at the point of supply. It noted  the recommendations  regarding  air-conditioning 
systems. These said that they needed  to be maintained and recommended among other  
things that they should  be run at least once  a week throughout the year.  The 
recommendations were  also for air-conditioning units to be serviced every 30,000 miles or 
two years.  
Moneybarn further  said that Miss W was unwilling  to get a diagnostics report carried out to 
enable a full investigation and assessment as to whether the issue was inherent  at the point 
of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider the individual  merits 
of each case. I take relevant regulations into account but my decision is based on what I 
consider fair and reasonable given the circumstances of each complaint.
Miss W acquired  a used car through a conditional  sale agreement  with Moneybarn. Under 
the regulations,  Moneybarn  can be held liable if the car provided  was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN55296112Miss W contacted Moneybarn on 1 June  2018  saying that she had noticed the air-
conditioning unit was leaking after she had it re-gassed in April.  Miss Ws agreement  is 
dated 4 October  2017 and so she raised her concerns  with Moneybarn around eight months 
after acquisition.
Moneybarn has referred to the Consumer rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and said that as the 
issue was raised more than six months  after acquisition  it was up to Miss W to show  that 
there was fault with the car that was present  from the point of supply. 
I accept that it is often the case that after six months  the customer  is required to show the 
faults were present from the point of supply. However considering  the circumstances of this 
case I find it reasonable to accept  that Miss W would have only been aware of any issue  
from the point she re-gassed the air-conditioning in April 2018. I say this because it is 
unlikely she would have  wanted to use the air-conditioning between acquisition  and April 
2018.
Miss W had the air-conditioning re-gassed  on 18 April and reported  the leak to Moneybarn  
on 1 June after having already discussed this with the dealer.  This shows  that as soon as 
she was aware of the issue she made  contact with the relevant  parties. 
Miss W has provided information from the garage  that confirms  the air-conditioning was re-
gassed on 18 April 2018 and the following morning the car was returned due to the air-
conditioning not working as it should. On further inspection  a leak was detected  at the rear of 
the engine from one of the pipes. So while I accept that full diagnostics have not been 
undertaken, Miss W has provided evidence of a leak being identified following  an inspection 
of the car.
I note the comments made  about air-conditioning being a wear and tear item.  However  the 
fault that has been identified is a leak from one of the pipes,  and this was identified on the 
first use of the air-conditioning. As the air-conditioning had not been used by Miss W until 
this time I do not think it fair to say the issue was due to reasonable wear and tear while  in 
her use. I find it more likely than not that the issue is due to a fault that was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
On balance while I have  taken into account the comments made by Moneybarn,  in this case 
I find the fair resolution  is for Moneybarn  to pay for the repairs  required to the air conditioning 
system. 
This issue was not addressed when it was first raised and so Miss W was without use of the 
air-conditioning throughout the summer months.  This would have reduced her enjoyment of 
the car and so I find it reasonable  that she is refunded  10% of her monthly rentals  from April 
2018 to September 2018.
Ref: DRN55296113my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
1.pay for the repairs required to get the air-conditioning system in a satisfactory  
condition (estimates for the work should  be provided in advance);  and
2.refund  Miss W 10% of her monthly  instalments for the period April 2018 to 
September 2018 due to the loss of use of the air-conditioning system.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5529611