K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about his investment account  with Barclays Bank  UK Plc (Barclays). In 
the main,  he says:
Barclays denied him access  to his account,  without  reason, and failed to resolve  this 
problem for many  months.
Barclays liquidated stock in his account  without his knowledge and consent.
Barclays deducted charges from his account without his knowledge and consent, and 
given that he had been denied access to the account it is unreasonable  for Barclays  
to apply a charge  for an account  service he has not received.
background
Mr Ns description  of the background (and his claims) can be summarised as follows:
He had an online share dealing account with a third party firm which was then taken 
over by Barclays. In late 2018  he became aware  that his account was inaccessible 
and he contacted Barclays to resolve  the matter.  He eventually  regained access  to 
the account in September 2019. In the interim, Barclays was unable  to explain the 
problem  and he remains unaware  of what caused  the problem. The matter also 
consumed a succession of various efforts, travelling and expenses  on his part.
He seeks compensation for his experience in the matter; for Barclays  delay in 
resolving the matter; for financial loss arising  from lost investment opportunity  during 
the period in which his account  was inaccessible; and for the efforts and expenses  he 
incurred in the course of pursuing  progress  of and a resolution to the matter.
Upon regaining access to his account he learnt about the stock  liquidation  and its 
substitution by cash in the account. He was not aware it had taken place so could not 
have consented  to it. He seeks an explanation, with evidence, of the basis  on which 
Barclays could have  sold the stock without his knowledge and consent. He asserts  
that it could not have  reasonably done so and he seeks redress for the matter.
Upon regaining access to the account  he also discovered fees Barclays had 
deducted from its cash balance. He did not agree  to any such  deductions. He seeks 
an explanation,  with evidence, of the basis on which Barclays  could make the 
deductions without  his knowledge and consent. He assets  that it could not have 
reasonably done  so and he seeks a refund of relevant fees.
Mr Ns most  recent position was that he would settle the entire  complaint  for £25,000. 
Barclays disagrees and is prepared to offer no more than £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr N in the course of the inaccessibility matter  and it says it has done  nothing 
wrong with regards to the stock liquidation and the fee deductions.  Barclays addition to the 
background can be summarised  as follows:
Mr Ns original account was transferred to Barclays in 2003  and in 2017 Barclays  
migrated the account unto its new Smart Investor platform.
As part of the transfer in 2003 new (Barclays)  terms applied to the account.  Account 
holders were notified of and informed about the new terms, including  a migration 
pack and a Rates and Charges  document,  at the time. Acceptance of the new terms 
(including the relevant rates and charges) was indicated by an account holders 
continuing use of the account  after the migration (when the new terms became 
applicable). Account  activity evidence shows that Mr N continued to use the account 
after the migration  in 2013, which indicated his acceptance of the new terms.
Ref: DRN53153882In 2015 Barclays  received  returned  mail in relation to Mr N and his account  he had 
changed his residence  without updating Barclays. In response to the returned  mail, 
Barclays suspended  the account   and placed a Gone Away  status on it.
In 2017, Mr N could  not be notified  about the migration  of his account  unto the new 
platform  because  of the accounts  Gone Away status and because  he had not 
updated it with his new address.
The stock liquidation  matter, around  2016,  resulted directly from a Mandatory  
Corporate Action (MCA), related to the relevant stock, in which  investors were not 
given elective options and for which the terms of the account  did not oblige Barclays  
to notify Mr N or seek instructions from him and permitted it to facilitate any such 
default corporate action.
Mr N has always paid a fee for his account   he did so from the outset with the third 
party firms  account  and then with Barclays (before 2015 and, from March  2018, after 
the Smart Investor  account migration).  It has not deducted any charges or fees from 
his account that it is not entitled  to deduct under the terms he agreed  in 2003.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that it should not be upheld   
as she broadly agreed with Barclays position  (and points) in the complaint and she noted,  
with regards to the account access matter, that Mr N had been issued telephone and online 
banking details in February 2019.  Mr N disagreed with this outcome. In the main, he retained 
his original position and in addition:
He said he did not receive the correspondence  of February  2019  the investigator  
referred to. He received the online banking  details in June 2019 and did not receive 
his membership details until September 2019,  which is when he could finally access 
the account. During the delay it would  have been  futile to call Barclays because, 
based on his experiences on the occasions  he called, it would not have discussed 
the account with him given that he could not pass the security check.
He broadly argued that Barclays claims about the fee deductions  and stock  
liquidation need to be evidenced,  and they have  not been.
The investigator looked into Mr Ns comments and responded  to him with the following:
Evidence of the terms of the 2003  migration of his original account to Barclays.
Evidence of the terms upon which Barclays was entitled to deducted  fees for the 
account.
Evidence of the account terms from 2015, which were relevant to the MCA event in 
2016 that led to liquidation of his stock and which supported Barclays position  in 
executing the liquidation as it did.
Confirmation of her previous view and her view that Barclays  offer to him of £250 is 
fair.
Reference to the defunct residence address Barclays  had after applying the 
Gone Away status to the account.
Evidence that online and telephone banking details were  sent to him in February 
2019.
Mr N sought and obtained disclosure of documentation related to the complaint. He identified 
what he considered  to be examples of some documents being altered by Barclays  and 
questioned this services approach in relying  upon such documents. This matter was 
addressed separately  to the complaint and Mr N was referred to the Information 
Ref: DRN53153883Commissioners Office (ICO) if he retained  his concerns about Barclays management  of 
information related  to him.
The complaint was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Access to Mr Ns account
The balance of available evidence suggests  that the events in 2015 appear  to have played a 
role in the inaccessibility problem Mr N faced. The Gone Away  status  applied  to his account 
in that year and the out-of-date address  information Barclays  had for him meant 
correspondence related to the account migration in 2017 did not reach  him. I do not consider 
Barclays at fault for any of this, given that it was Mr Ns primary and sole responsibility to 
keep his account details up-to-date.
Had he been using  (and/or accessing  the account) from 2015 onwards  and had he actively 
participated in the 2017 migration process  the cause  of any accessibility problem that might 
have arisen from that process could possibly have  been clearer   or possibly clearer in the 
form of responsibility for any such problem  being directly related to the migration process 
itself. Instead, the Gone  Away account status  from 2015 and completion of the 2017 
migration process without Mr Ns involvement  appears to have added complications to the 
access problem he discovered in 2018.
I do not suggest that it was not Barclays responsibility to identify the cause of the problem 
that arose in 2018 and to address it in reasonable time  it was. However,  I consider the 
history from 2015 onwards to be relevant. I note account activity evidence  that shows the 
Gone Away status was placed on the account in July 2015 and shows it was done because  
of returned mail from the account holder address  that Mr N does not appear to have updated 
at the time. There is wider  evidence that suggests  the account  had been  dormant since  
2010. In this overall context and given that the Gone  Away status was not addressed  until 
2018, it is arguably unsurprising and not unreasonable that accessibility had to be 
reconfigured in 2018.
There appears to be a degree of concession on Barclays part that resolution  of the access 
problem, after it was made aware of it, could have been handled  better. I accept Mr Ns 
assertion that even  after his full cooperation and effort,  over a number of months, in updating 
his account credentials  (and in order to have  access restored for the account), the account 
remained inaccessible online and without a meaningful reason. This  or part of this  also 
appears to have been accepted by Barclays.  Barclays  offer of £250 to Mr N has been  made  
on this overall basis, but with relevance  up to early  2019 only. 
Mr Ns claim,  in his present complaint, appears to go further. Where Barclays  considers that 
the matter was resolved around early  2019  and considers  that its offer to him covers  the 
delay in doing so up to then, he says the problem  continued until September 2019 and he 
seeks further compensation for the additional delay. He also seeks compensation for 
financial loss arising from what  he considers  to be lost investment  (and profit making) 
opportunities whilst his account was inaccessible.
Ref: DRN53153884I am not persuaded by Mr Ns claim. There is evidence from Barclays  complaint handling  
records that refers to his account being reinstated  for telephone access  by late 
February 2019. I appreciate that his preferred access to the account  was online and that a 
resolution to the online  access matter was not reached until later in 2019, but the point  
remains that he appears to have  had a form of access  telephone access   to the account 
earlier. I consider that the delay (up to later in 2019  when  he eventually gained  online 
access) in him using  the account was avoidable  especially  in terms of trading (which  I 
address in the next paragraph). I also consider that this arguably defeats  his claim for 
additional compensation. 
This also defeats Mr Ns claim for financial  loss. I have not seen evidence of him declaring 
any specific trading or investment intentions to Barclays during the period  in which  he sought 
to establish access  to his account. Without such evidence, there  does not appear to be a 
definitive basis to conclude what investments he would  have  made, but for the access 
problem (and up to when telephone access was established), and whether (or not) they 
would have made the profits he claims to have lost the opportunity  to make.  
Even if there  was evidence of specific trading or investment  intentions  on Mr Ns part, it 
would be reasonable to conclude that he ought  to have mitigated his position  by using the 
accounts telephone service to execute  them. In the absence of evidence that he sought  to 
do this but was prevented from doing so, Barclays could  not fairly  be responsible for any 
such investments not being made.
Stock Liquidation
I do not consider  that Barclays committed a wrongdoing in this matter.  It appears that Mr N 
has not been deprived of the proceeds of the stock sale, so the issue is about the liquidation  
itself. As Barclays says, there is evidence related to the terms that applied  from 2003, of 
Mr Ns implicit acceptance  of those terms by using the account thereafter and of those terms 
leading to the version in 2015 that applied to the stock liquidation. Under the relevant terms, 
Barclays was not obliged to notify Mr N of the MCA or to seek his instructions about  it. It also 
appears that the liquidation was the direct result of the MCA. Furthermore, it is noteworthy 
that even if Barclays  had sought  to notify  Mr N, given that he had not updated his account 
address it could not have done so.
Account Fees
Available evidence  shows that the account fees Mr N objects to reflect  the same type of 
account fees that were applied to his account  prior to Barclays  undertaking  the account, 
thereafter (under  Barclays  terms) and then from around March  2018 after migration to the 
Smart Investor  account  (and under the terms of the Smart Investor account).
I understand Mr Ns point and dispute  about the fees applied  from 2018 and up to when 
access to his account was restored in 2019.  He argues that he did not use the account 
during this period because he could not access it, so he should  not incur  fees for an account  
he could not access. However,  evidence shows that the fees were broadly for maintenance 
of the account   irrespective of usage   and I am persuaded  by Barclays reference to the 
terms which justified them. I do not consider  that Mr N has established the claim for the 
refund of fees he has asked for.
The ICO matter
Ref: DRN53153885Mr Ns concerns about Barclays handling  of data and information  related to his account and 
complaint have been addressed separately and, as I said above, he has been signposted to 
the ICO if he wishes to pursue his concerns further.  In as far as his concerns relate to this 
decision, I consider  that I have used available evidence and specific contents within such 
evidence that appear to be reliable. 
It is beyond my remit to investigate into the concerns Mr N has mentioned to the extent that 
he appears to want. I agree with his point that this service should not knowingly rely on 
evidence that lacks credibility. I have considered this point and considered  Barclays  
responses to the concerns he raised.  On balance, I do not presently have sufficient  grounds  
to conclude that the evidence I have used in reaching the above findings lack credibility.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 2 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5315388