K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) acted irresponsibly when it gave him loans he 
says he couldnt  afford  to pay back.
background
This complaint is about five loans Myjar provided to Mr F. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 24/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 £175.00 £186.20
2 01/08/2016 30/10/2016 6 £650.00 £194.61
3 31/10/2016 08/12/2016 6 £650.00 £194.93
4 14/01/2017 25/10/2017 12 £550.00 £82.41
5 04/11/2017 outstanding 12 £1,150.00 £173.42
Mr F said that he was trapped in a debt spiral of repeatedly having to borrow  to repay payday 
loans, including  from other lenders - and that Myjar shouldve known he couldnt  afford  to 
make the repayments . 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part and thought  that Myjar shouldnt  have lent 
loan 5 to Mr F. 
Myjar disagreed and mainly said that our adjudicators view lacked reasoning and detail  
and it wasnt clear  if everything Myjar sent us had been reviewed.  
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN57987462But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Loans 1, 2, 3 and 4
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr F. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks  on Mr Fs credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Mr F loans 1 - 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Myjar to agree to lend. As Mr F hasnt 
raised any objection  to the adjudicators  recommendation  in relation to loans 1 - 4, I dont  
think that I need to say more about them.
Loan 5 
But I think that by loan 5, Myjar should  have realised that Mr F wasnt  managing to repay his 
borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Myjar could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr F had struggled  
to repay  some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 within  three days of repaying 
loan 1  and he borrowed more than three times the amount hed taken out on loan 1
 
Ref: DRN57987463Mr F took out loan 3 the next day after he paid loan 2 - and borrowed the same 
amount again  as the loan hed just repaid
he took out loan 4 a little over a month  after he paid loan 3, and he arranged the 
borrowing over a much longer repayment  period, possibly to keep down the cost of 
the monthly instalments (even though  hed also taken out a slightly smaller loan) 
loan 5 started less than two weeks after he paid loan 4  and Mr F was now 
borrowing significantly more money. Loan  5 was for around twice the amount of the 
previous loan 
hed taken out his first loan with Myjar around 16 months  earlier  and the amount he 
was borrowing was now much more substantial. So Myjar could see that Mr Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
and this would suggest that he was having  problems managing his money and 
couldnt afford to pay back  what he had borrowed without borrowing again.  
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Myjar to think that it was likely  Mr F would be able 
sustainably to repay loan 5 and it shouldnt have provided this loan to him. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back  before doing what  I have outlined 
below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 5, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr F as though  they had been  repayments of the principal. 
B.If this results in Mr F having made  overpayments then these should be refunded  with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.If there  is still an outstanding  balance on loan 5 then the amounts calculated in "A" 
and "B" should be used  to repay loan 5. Any surplus should be paid to Mr F. 
Otherwise, if there is still an outstanding balance,  then Myjar should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr F.
D.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Fs credit file for loan 5 once it is repaid  and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same  if Myjar sold this loan on. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN57987464my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint about loan 5. MYJAR  Limited  
(Myjar) should take the steps Ive set out above  to put things  right for Mr F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798746