K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc allowed someone else to open an account  in his 
name in 2009  and borrow money and so he shouldnt  be responsible for this.
 
background
Mr D was contacted  by debt collectors  in 2018 about  a debt that originated from an overdraft  
taken in his name in 2009 with Santander. He said he had never had an account with 
Santander and that the address  used in the application hadnt been  the family home since 
1995. Mr D maintained he had been the victim  of identify theft.
Santander didnt  agree and said that a passport document had been given as evidence  of 
his identity when  the account was opened.  It provided a copy of this and the application 
form. And it said that the pattern  of payments and repayments to the account  was 
inconsistent with his identify having  being  stolen.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Mr D told him he had lost 
the passport used  and had a new one but hadnt  provided any evidence of this. And as the 
application for the account was made in person he expected the member  of staff would have 
considered the passport picture to be a true likeness of him.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he would  never have 
opened an account using what was his mothers previous address. And that he had never 
had an account  with Santander but had one with a different bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Ill need to think about what is most  
likely. 
Mr D clearly has strong feelings about  what he says happened but hes not been  able to 
provide evidence to support that. He accepts the address used for the application  was at one 
time the family home. And as set out above, there  was positive identification taken of him at 
the time suggesting  that normal checks were made to confirm who was opening the account. 
Ive also looked  at the history of the way the account was operated based on Santanders 
case notes. An unauthorised overdraft was created in July 2009 and by the time the account  
was transferred to recoveries in March 2010  the balance was just over £140 in debit.  There  
is record of contact with the person Santander  believed to be Mr D about setting up a 
payment plan during that period. And a number of small repayments were  made  as part of a 
payment plan. Santander also has a record of a concern  being  raised  in branch in October 
2009 about the bank  charges  on the account  by a person it thought  to be Mr D. 
I find it unlikely that this pattern of payments and the account history relates to the actions of 
a fraudster. And Im satisfied on balance based on the available  evidence that Mr D most 
likely opened the account despite what he says about the address details being wrong.
Ref: DRN58865932I know hes going to be very upset  when I say I dont have a basis  to uphold  his complaint. 
Santander sold the debt to a third party so Mr D would need  to deal with that third party if he 
now wants to discuss his financial  position.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5886593