K820x#14complaint
Mr A is complaining that the equipment Universal Leasing  Limited  (Universal)  provided him 
under a hire agreement  wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
background
In July 2017 Mr A entered into a hire agreement to hire some catering equipment as he was 
starting a fast food business. He hired  the following:
High pressure chicken  fryer
Chicken warmer
Chip fryer
Chip scuttle
Breading table
The equipment was provided to Universal by a separate company  P  who also acted as a 
credit broker  to arrange the hire agreement. Mr A says that he paid £250  to P to have the 
equipment installed. He says he was initially told hed get training on the equipment.  But he 
says, when he asked  to have training, he was told to travel to Wigan  to see them  being  
used, which  he thinks was unfair. 
Mr A says that when  the installer  came to fit the equipment he turned up without some  pipes  
and cables, so he couldnt fit the equipment. As a result of this, Mr A says that he lost a day 
of trading.
Mr A says he later decided to return the chip scuttle  and fryer he hired  as he wasnt  using 
them. But he says Universal  said it would only take the goods back at 50% of the initial cost. 
He says he understood that he should  have been allowed to return the goods free of charge.
Around a week  after receiving the goods,  Mr A complained that the pilot light had gone  out 
on the chicken  fryer. An engineer was sent out to fix the issue, which  he did. But Mr A says 
that he also lost around  a day of trading as a result  of this. Universal doesnt think the issue 
was down to the quality  of the equipment, but was due to the way Mr A was using them.
Mr A subsequently complained about the quality of the equipment  that was sent to him. He 
said the serial numbers had been  filed off and he also said that the machine  he saw in the 
show room had an automatically controlled pilot light, but he has to operate the pilot light on 
his machinery manually. He says the pilot light goes out two or three times a day. He also 
said that the Thermocouple wasnt to the manufacturers specifications and he says it had a 
lot of spray  paint around it which he thinks was to mask the condition  of the parts.  He says 
the machines  were  reconditioned to a poor standard.
In August  2017  Mr A says that the chicken  fryer stopped working and he says it took around 
a week to be fixed. And he says that this affected  his ability  to trade.  Mr A says that the 
engineer who did the repair told him to move some  copper wires to light the pilot light. But he 
doesnt think he should have had to do that.
Mr A says,  due to the quality of the equipment, the pilot light would  frequently  go out. He 
says that this meant the equipment would lose temperature  and he couldnt fulfil food orders.
Ref: DRN52825492In October  2017 the chicken fryer broke down again. Universal arranged for the equipment  
to be inspected. And it says the inspector concluded that there wasnt  a fault with the 
equipment, but he said that the issues Mr A was experiencing was due to the way he was 
turning the equipment on. Universal said that the engineer  said that he was able to turn the 
equipment on every  time himself. And he thought  the issues were down to the fact Mr A was 
unfamiliar with using  the machines. Universal  said that the engineer  thought Mr A wasnt 
maintaining the equipment properly.
In November 2017 Mr A said that he had to get his own engineer to repair  the equipment, 
because he says Universal refused to send out an engineer. He says the engineer  replaced  
the thermocouple magnet, which he says was the problem. And he says there  were  other  
issues with the equipment.  He says that he lost two days of trading as he had to close over a 
weekend due to the equipment not working.  
However shortly after this, Mr A says his chicken warmer failed which meant  that he had to 
throw away  some chicken hed bought. He says that, to fix it, the engineer replaced the gas 
valve magnet because it was faulty. 
Universal said that the engineer said it was Mr As buildings  electrics  that were tripping the 
electrics, not the equipment. It said the engineer report  says that the water connection for 
the machine and the drainage system for the water werent installed. It said Mr A was filling 
the water  in the tank manually  instead  of the automatic system. It said that this meant the 
water overflowed and came into contact  with the cables of the element. It said this caused a 
short circuit in the wiring  and as such caused problems with the water  heating elements. So 
it maintained that this fault was caused by misuse of the equipment  and not due to the 
quality of the machinery.
Mr A disputes the authenticity of this report. He says the engineer who did the report  isnt on 
the gas safe register. He also said the address on the report is for a foreign foods 
supermarket. 
Mr A says that during this time he was continually chasing P to provide him with a copy  of 
the gas safety installation certificate. But P says that it didnt install  the equipment, so it said 
that Mr A would need to contact the installer  directly  to get this.
In December 2017 Mr A says that there was an explosion from the chicken fryer which he 
says caused him personal injury, with burns to his hands and face. Mr A says he had to go 
to hospital as a result.  He says he hasnt been  able to work in the shop since then.
Universal said that it wanted to arrange an independent inspection of the equipment  to 
understand what had happened. It also asked Mr A to provide  a copy of the medical  report to 
show that the injuries were as a result  of an explosion. Mr A didnt think he should have to do 
so. And he asked this service to step in.
Since then,  an independent company inspected the equipment. It said it could only do a 
visual inspection because  the gas had been disconnected. It said that the only reason for the 
explosion would be poor ignition cross  lighting of the pilot to the main burner. It said a build-
up of gas occurs then ignites with a small explosion. It said this could be because the pilot 
light was blocked,  it wasn't the correct size or the pilot wasnt  in the right position. So the 
engineer concluded the fault was with the fryer rather than with the gas supply.
Ref: DRN52825493Universal says that this was a supply  only contract. So it said it wasnt responsible for the 
quality of the goods provided. And it said that Mr A should be referring his complaint to P as 
the company that sourced  the goods.  It also commented that Mr A had contacted  it in 
September 2017 to say that his business wasnt doing as well as he hoped and was looking 
to get out the agreement.  And it thinks this is the real reason hes looking to end the 
agreement.
Mr A set out his complaint  to this service in full and ultimately raised  the following points:
1.He paid around £11,000  for the equipment  so he thinks  it should be inferred that it came 
with training.
2.He says he was told hed get good quality equipment, but he says hes been sold fake 
equipment, which  he says is shown by the fact the serial numbers were  filed off. He says 
the equipment  was dangerous  which has caused him personal injury  and serious  
financial losses.
3.Hes unhappy he was only offered 50% of the cost of the goods he wanted  to return.
4.Universal or P havent given him a gas certificate for the machinery. He provided a call 
recording he had with one of Ps employees  where he says it was agreed  theyd install  
the equipment  for him at a fee of £250.
5.Hes adamant that P installed the equipment and he paid £250 for it. He provided a 
photograph of the person he says installed the equipment. He also said that Ps website 
said that the equipment came with free installation.  Universal maintains that it or P didnt 
install the equipment  as it said it was Mr As responsibility to do so. And it said the 
photograph was of the delivery  driver.
6.He says that the thermocouple that was fitted with the chicken fryer wasnt  an original 
manufacturer part. So he doesnt  think it was good  enough to safely work on the fryer. 
He says he had to pay £300  plus VAT to replace this. And he wants Universal to refund 
this cost.
7.He thinks Universal  has overcharged him for the equipment. He says adverts for similar 
equipment shows  that the prices were inflated.
8.He says that hes continued to have to pay the rent and utility bills on the shop, even 
though he hasnt been able to work. He says that this has caused him serious  financial 
difficulties and he holds Universal responsible for this.
9.He also wants Universal to compensate him for the amount of time hes had to spend in 
resolving this matter.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  not upholding this complaint. And I said 
the following:
Mr A has raised  a number of points that he wants this service  to take into account.  Ive 
taken them all into consideration. But Ive not commented on each and every  point  hes 
raised. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal  nature of this 
service. In this decision Ive focussed  on what  I think  are the key issues.
Mr A says that Universal has breached the terms of his hire agreement by providing  goods 
which werent of satisfactory  quality.  He also says that P installed the goods and he says it 
did so on behalf  of Universal. Universal  says it was a supply  only contract. So it said it didnt 
install the goods. And it maintains that the goods were of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr A acquired the goods under a hire agreement. Legislation implies  a term into the hire 
agreement that the goods  must  be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance  
Ref: DRN52825494provider, Universal  is responsible for the quality of the goods its provided  under the 
agreement. Also in certain circumstances, Universal  can be held responsible  for the actions 
of the credit  broker  P.
As I said,  Mr A has raised a number of issues and, for ease of reference, I shall deal with 
what I think are the key points here separately.
is Universal responsible  for the installation  of the equipment?
Mr A says that he entered  into an agreement with P to install the equipment for £250.  And 
hes provided a copy  of a call recording between him and Ps employee discussing  the 
quote. So he thinks, in effect, the finance agreement he entered  into was for the supply and 
installation of the goods. So he thinks Universal is responsible for the quality of the goods 
and for the way they were  installed.  Universal  says that this was a supply-only  contract  so it 
says it wasnt responsible for the installation. And it says that it should be P whos  
responsible for these  issues.
Ive taken Mr As comments into account,  but the hire agreement  Mr A signed  doesnt make 
any reference to installation. It describes all the equipment provided under the hire 
agreement, but doesnt  make any mention of installation. So Im satisfied that the agreement 
Mr A entered into with Universal was a supply only contract and any agreements  Mr A may 
have made  with P were done outside of the contract with Universal.
In certain circumstances representations made  by a credit broker can be deemed  to have 
been made by or on behalf  of the creditor in the capacity of an agent of the creditor.  But I 
dont think P was acting  as Universal agent and Ill explain why. Of particular note, the hire 
agreement sets out the following:
12 Supplier not Agent of Owner
No dealer, broker, manufacturer or supplier by whom the Equipment was supplied is the 
Agent of the Owner [Universal] for any purpose and the Owner accepts no responsibility  for 
any representation whatsoever made by or on behalf of any such either directly or indirectly  
to the Hirer save  insofar as the same have  been expressly adopted  by the Owner in writing.
Given this, Im satisfied that any representation or agreement  made  by P wasnt done  on 
behalf of Universal.  I appreciate Mr As comments  that hes adamant he entered  into a 
contract with P to install  the equipment and that it did so. But, as I said,  if this was the case  I 
think this was a separate contract between  Mr A and P. And I dont think this formed  part of 
the hire agreement with Universal.
So it follows  that I dont  think Universal is responsible for any issues that Mr A had with the 
installation  including the delay in the goods being  installed  and the quality of the 
installation.
should Mr A been  allowed to return the goods  he didnt need?
Mr A is unhappy that, when he realised he didnt need some  of the goods, he says Universal 
wanted him to pay 50% of the cost. He says he should have had a statutory right to return 
the goods. Legislation gives  Mr A the right to return faulty goods. But it doesnt give him the 
right to return goods if he subsequently decides  he doesnt want them.
Ref: DRN52825495Ive looked at the agreement to see whether it gave Mr A the right to return  the goods.  But, 
the agreement  sets out that it isnt a cancellable agreement. And it doesnt give Mr A the 
option to return  the goods. So I cant say that Universal acted unfairly in saying that Mr A 
wasnt allowed to return the goods  without penalty.
were the goods  misrepresented to Mr A by Universal?
Mr A says that he was told by P that hed receive a high quality genuine manufacturer fryer. 
But he says that the serial  numbers have been  filed off and a number of non-genuine parts 
have been used on it. So he doesnt think that hes been given the goods he was told he 
would get.
As I said above, the terms of Mr As agreement  with Universal sets out that P wasnt acting 
as Universals agent.. So I dont think Universal is responsible for any representations that P 
may have  made about the goods Mr A hired.
Ive reviewed the agreement and these  set out that the chicken fryer and chicken warmer 
that Mr A hired were both refurbished machinery. So he wasnt  hiring brand new machinery 
so there  was always going to be some wear and tear to the equipment. I also dont think  its 
unusual that some non-genuine parts will be used  to refurbish equipment.
I note Mr As comments that the serial numbers have been filed off. So he thinks  P has done 
so to conceal the fact that these  werent  genuine manufacturer  goods. But Universal says 
the serial numbers have  simply worn  away due to usage. I think it needs to be remembered 
that Mr A didnt hire new goods, so some  wear and tear was to be expected on them. 
Mr A has said that the fact the serial  numbers were filed off suggests that the goods werent 
a genuine model.  Im also conscious  that the recent engineer report  suggests that this may 
be a copy. Taking  this into account,  alongside  the number of non-genuine  parts  used, it is 
possible that this may not be a genuine  model.  
But it also has to be considered that this was not a new product. And Mr A chose to buy a 
refurbished product at a reduced price from a new model. During its working life, its an 
inevitability that certain parts will need to be replaced. And, as I said,  I dont think  its unusual  
that some  non-genuine parts will be used to refurbish  equipment.  So I still dont think  I have 
enough to say that Mr A didnt receive  the product he contracted to receive.
were the goods  supplied  of satisfactory quality?
Universal says its not responsible for the quality of the goods  and says the complaint about 
this should be directed  to P who it says Mr A actually hired the goods from. But Mr A has 
entered into hire agreement through Universal and Universal has provided the goods to 
Mr A. And it retains ownership of these  goods during this time.  However,  if hire is for 
business purposes, the hire company may exclude  liability for the quality of goods in the 
agreement.
Im conscious that the terms of the agreement also set out the following:
6 Restriction  of Liability
Save aforesaid, since the Equipment has been  selected by the Hirer, the Owner does not 
make or give any representation,  condition, warranty or undertaking as to the state, quality, 
Ref: DRN52825496performance, fitness for any particular purpose or correspondence  with description or 
sample of the Equipment  and all representations,  conditions, warranty  or undertaking as to 
such matters implied by statute, law or otherwise are expressly excluded by the Owner to 
the fullest extent  permitted by law, and the owner shall have no liability to the Hirer in respect 
of the Equipment in contract  or in tort save for liability for death or personal in caused by the 
negligence of Owner. The Hirer is responsible for obtaining and warrant  that the Hirer has 
obtained directly  from the Supplier any conditions or warranties or guarantees the Hirer 
requires in respect of the equipment.
So Im satisfied that Universal  has sought  to exclude its liability for problems with the goods. 
Mr A entered into this agreement for business purposes,  so he doesnt  receive  the rights 
available to a consumer under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  However,  in addition to this, 
the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 implies terms into hire contracts. It says that the 
goods supplied  must  be of satisfactory  quality and fit for their purpose.
A finance provider  can exclude or restrict liability for breaches of the satisfactory quality 
provisions in the 1982 Act. But, irrespective of this, Im not persuaded that the goods were of 
unsatisfactory quality  when Mr A entered into the hire agreement. So Im not making a 
finding on whether  Universal can exclude  its liability in this respect.
In deciding whether  goods were of satisfactory  quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, and the age of the goods. I think there  are two key 
issues here  the initial faults that Mr A had to get repaired and also the explosion  Mr A 
says occurred. I shall respond to each  in turn.
faults arising before the explosion
Mr A didnt hire new equipment, but hired  refurbished goods. So I think he fairly needed to 
expect some wear and tear to the goods  when  he first acquired them.
In August  2017,  the chicken fryer stopped working  and it was diagnosed as a fault with the 
thermocouple. And the engineer replaced this at a cost of £100. The engineer  said that it 
wasnt an original manufacturer part. But this doesnt mean the chicken  fryer wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. As I said,  Mr A acquired  a refurbished fryer. And I dont think  its unusual  
that some  non-manufacturer parts  would  be used.
In November 2017 it appears that both the chicken warmer and fryer stopped  working at 
separate times. It appears that the gas valve magnet  failed on the chicken  fryer. And Mr A 
arranged for this to be replaced.
Mr A says that he lost some days trading because of these failures and incurred costs in 
getting the faults repaired. He says he also had to throw away  some chicken because  of this. 
And he thinks Universal should  compensate  him for these  losses. But, its a term of the hire 
agreement that it was Mr As responsibility  to service and maintain the equipment for the 
duration of the agreement   including repairing or replacing any damaged  parts. 
Universal is required to fix goods  which arent of satisfactory quality. But, while I note Mr As 
comments in this respect, I dont think these  issues made the goods of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr A didnt hire new goods, but refurbished goods. So I think its reasonable to have to 
expect to carry out some repairs while he had them. And it seems to me that the parts that 
failed on the chicken fryer are wearable  parts. And it seems to me that they have failed due 
Ref: DRN52825497to natural wear  and tear. So I dont think Universal is responsible  for any losses  Mr A may 
have incurred as a result of this.
Universal also arranged  for an electrician  to inspect the chicken warmer who said that there 
wasnt a fault with the chicken warmer, but he concluded that water was touching  the wires 
which was causing  a short circuit.  Mr A has made  a number  of representations about the 
validity of this report. He says the engineer who did the report  isnt on the gas safe register. 
But I dont think this is of any relevance  as he wasnt carrying out any gas works. He also 
said the address  on the report is for a foreign foods supermarket. 
Ive taken Mr As comments into account,  but Im satisfied that its most  likely that this was 
an authentic report. Universal  has provided  details of the electricians new address. 
Furthermore, it appears that the health  and safety  officer who inspected  Mr As premises in 
December 2017,  also spoke to the electrician in question. And the officer expressed no 
concerns about  his validity. So, while I acknowledge  Mr As concerns in this respect, I 
havent seen anything to support Mr As concerns about the validity  of the report.
The electrician concluded that the issues the chicken warmer was having was down to the 
water in the tank being overfilled manually. And he concluded that, when the water 
overflowed, it came into contact with the cables of the element which caused a short circuit 
of the wiring.
Im persuaded by the findings of the electrician  and I dont think Mr A had given me enough 
to say that theyre not fair findings.  And, importantly, Ive not seen anything to show a 
specific fault with the chicken  warmer.  So it follows, that I dont think  it was of unsatisfactory 
quality when Mr A received it.
explosion of the chicken fryer
Mr A says that, in December 2017,  the chicken fryer exploded which  he says caused  him to 
be hospitalised. And he says that he hasnt been  able to work since. He holds Universal  fully 
responsible for this. Universal says that, if there was an explosion (which it disputes), there 
isnt anything to show that this was down to a fault with the equipment.  And it thinks  it was 
more likely to be as a result of Mr As failure  to adequately service and maintain the goods.
Its clear that Mr A has had a very difficult time since this incident.  Hes provided 
photographs of the injuries he had. I also understand hes not been  able to work since  and 
has stopped trading. But while I naturally sympathise  with the situation Mr A has found 
himself in, I have to decide whether  Universal is liable for what  happened.  In doing so, I think  
there are two key questions that I have to ask here:
1.Was the explosion as a result  of a fault with the equipment;  and, if yes,
2.Did this fault make the goods  of unsatisfactory quality?
Ultimately, legislation  sets out that its Mr As responsibility to demonstrate that there was a 
fault with the equipment. Im conscious  that the equipment has been inspected  by two 
separate companies and neither has diagnosed  a specific fault with the equipment. In 
February 2018, the initial inspection concluded:
In my opinion the only reasons for this [the blow back on the fryer] are the poor ignition 
cross lighting of the pilot to the main burner,  a build up of gas occurs then ignites with a 
Ref: DRN52825498small explosion,  this could  be because the pilot light was blocked and not the correct  size or 
the pilot was not in the right position.
But Universal has highlighted  that, if the pilot light was the wrong size, it would have 
expected the blow back to have  occurred shortly after Mr A started using the equipment.  And 
I was inclined to agree with Universal on this. So I asked for a second independent report  to 
be carried out. And this concluded that there wasnt anything to show  that there  had actually 
been an explosion  or blow back.  But they also concluded that the parts  may have 
contributed to the incident (but not the gas valve) but they thought it was highly unlikely.
Mr A has recently provided  a letter from an employee of the manufacturer  whos said that 
only genuine  parts should  be used, otherwise it could  result in personal injury.  But I dont 
think this detracts from the findings  of the expert  who actually inspected the goods who 
concluded that this was unlikely in this specific case.
Ultimately two independent engineers have inspected the equipment and havent found a 
fault with it. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Ive seen enough to say that any blow 
back was as a result  of a manufacturing defect or a fault that was present or developing at 
the point of sale. So it follows that I cant say that the goods were of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. And I dont think Universal  is responsible for whats happened.
distress and inconvenience
I note Mr A wants  to be compensated for the fact that hes been unable to work since the 
incident and also for the amount of time hes spent in dealing with this complaint. But I can 
only require Universal  to pay him compensation where I think  it has done something wrong. 
And, given  what Ive said above, I dont think I can fairly require Universal to compensate 
him for whats happened.
Universal said that it didnt have anything  further to add. Mr A didnt accept the provisional  
decision and he provided a long and detailed response about  why he didnt agree. But in 
summary, he raised the following  points:
1.P is one of Universals registered  brokers and received a finders fee for arranging the 
agreement. So he said that, as Universal paid commission  to P, it makes Universal 
equally responsible  for Ps actions. He also said that he thinks there should be a 
document of some  form between P and Universal to ensure the equipment  provided has 
to be as described and of a good  quality.  He queried how a company can supply non-
original goods  and not be held accountable  for the quality of the goods  provided.  He said 
he hired the goods from Universal, not P. He acknowledged  that hed signed a waiver 
which said Universal wasnt  responsible for the quality of the goods. But he says he 
wasnt given a choice  whether to sign it or not because he wouldnt  have  been  given the 
goods if he didnt  sign it.
2.He maintains that the goods he wanted to return werent as described. He said that the 
delivery note said that the chip fryer should  have been  a twin tank fryer, but he received 
a twin basket  fryer. He said that he had a 14 day cooling off period  with any loan or credit  
agreement. So he said he should have been able to return  the unused goods during that 
time.
3.He still thinks training should  have  been  provided with the legal manuals and he said that 
it was a legal  requirement to do so. 
Ref: DRN528254994.He maintains that it was Ps delivery  driver who installed the goods. He said hed 
provided us with a document with an authentic  signature that confirms  that his equipment  
was installed by these  companies. And hes unhappy that he thinks  weve  disregarded it.
5.He says that theres nothing to show that he was using the machinery incorrectly. He 
said he used them in the way that he was shown by the engineer  P appointed  to install  
the goods. He says he maintained  the equipment as he was required  to do and referred 
to the engineers report that stated there wasnt a build-up of dirt.
6.He still thinks the machinery wasnt as described  and was of very poor quality. He said I 
had acknowledged  that hed only had the machines for a week  and the pilot light kept 
extinguishing itself.  He queried if this was normal given hed spent over £11,000 in hiring 
the equipment.  He said that, while he agreed they were refurbished  models,  theyre still 
supposed to work as new. 
7.He says the goods were sold to him as original top quality, so he was expecting  genuine  
equipment and he thinks the parts  should have been genuine as well. He said that the 
serial numbers are embossed on to a metal plate which is then screwed  into the panel of 
the machine. So he doesnt think there  should  be any wear and tear. And he said the 
part numbers used  dont exist on the suppliers  website.  He maintains that this confirms  
that non-original  and substandard quality parts were used in the machines which he says 
caused him injuries and financial losses.
8.He maintains that the engineer who was instructed in October 2017 wasnt  suitably 
qualified. He remains adamant that he didnt work for the company P allegedly  sent out. 
He also said that the engineer changed  his statement following the health  and safety  
inspection.
9.He set out that hed taken out a lease on the property for 48 months,  so he said that he 
had no intention of ending his business early. And he said the quality of the equipment 
was the primary reason his business folded and he holds  Universal completely 
responsible. He disputes that he ever said that his business wasnt doing  well 
beforehand. And he maintains that the only reason  for any failings were  because of 
Universals actions.
10.He emphasised that he thinks the original engineer who assessed the goods after the 
explosion concluded that the fault was with the fryer. Hes unhappy that the engineer 
wasnt allowed to reconnect the gas to test the goods. He thinks  Universal deliberately 
withheld information from the engineer. He said the engineer  was a gas safe engineer  so 
could have reconnected the gas himself. He says that its been shown that the fault was 
with the equipment, not the mains. And he maintains that Universal  is responsible for 
what happened.
11.He says he should be compensated for the hours hes spent writing  the reports, the 
sleepless nights its caused him and emails  hes had to send. He also says Universal  
should compensate  his lost earnings from July 2017 when he started to have issues  
within the fryer. He said that he also incurred costs from the shop being closed  i.e. 
rent, gas, electric and water. He thinks Universal  should  refund this too.
12.He says hes still not received a refund  for what he paid for the second engineers and 
electricians visits.  So he thinks this should be included.
13.Finally he said that the fryer has not been  turned on or tested since the explosion  and 
only visual inspections were carried out. He says the machine is dangerous which  was 
refurbished to a poor standard  and installed by unqualified engineers  sent by Universal 
which resulted in injury  and financial  losses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN528254910Ive taken into account everything Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as I did previously. And Ive decided to not uphold  this 
complaint.  
I think the majority of the comments hes raised are the same  that hed raised before I issued 
my decision.  So Id already considered them  and set out my thoughts in my provisional 
decision. I recognise Mr A doesnt  agree with what Ive said before. But I dont intend to 
reiterate in any detail  about what Ive previously  said. And, as I set out in my provisional 
decision, Im not required to comment on each and every point raised. But I assure Mr A I 
have thought about and considered everything  hes said.  
In this decision I shall address any new points Mr A has raised  or clarify  situations where it 
may not have been as clear before.
Universals responsibility for Ps actions  as an agent
Mr A doesnt  agree  that Universal isnt responsible for Ps actions because he says that it 
was clearly acting as a broker, so Universal is responsible for what  P did. 
It seems  to me that P was acting on two fronts in this matter   firstly in sourcing and 
supplying catering equipment for Mr A and then secondly arranging  a suitable finance 
arrangement for him to finance the goods.  I agree with Mr A that P was acting as a credit 
broker for the purposes of arranging the finance  agreement. And legislation sets out that he 
can hold Universal  responsible for Ps actions in respect to arranging  the finance.
However, the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 sets out that a finance provider can 
exclude or restrict liability for breaches  in respect  to the quality  of the goods where theyre  
taken out for business purposes. So Universal was entitled to restrict its liability in the way 
that I set out in my provisional decision.
Further to this, the terms of the contract specifically  sets out that P wasnt acting as an agent 
of Universal in respect to the supply  of the goods.  And this includes in respect to their 
installation. I dont  dispute what Mr A has said about who installed the goods.  But if he did 
enter into a contract  with P to install the equipment, this was paid for by Mr A separately and 
didnt form part of the hire agreement. So I remain of the opinion that Universal isnt 
responsible for any issues with the installation of the equipment.
Mr A wasnt  able to return the goods he didnt want
I note Mr As comments that he didnt get the goods that were on the agreement. As Ive 
said, Universal isnt responsible for any representations P may have made about the quality 
of the goods he got. Ive taken Mr As comments into account about what he was entitled to 
expect for refurbished goods.  But he hasnt  given me anything to make me change what  I 
set out in my provisional decision. And I dont have anything to add in addition  to what I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
were the goods  supplied  of satisfactory quality?
As I said above and in my provisional  decision,  Universal has sought to exclude  any liability 
for the condition of the goods.  And its entitled  to do so under the Supply of Goods and 
Ref: DRN528254911Services Act 1982. But, even if this wasnt  the case,  Im still not persuaded that the goods 
were of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr A has raised a number  of points in respect  to the faults that arose before the explosion. 
But I dont think he raised anything new. And Im satisfied that my provisional decision 
addressed Mr As comments. While  I appreciate Mr A doesnt agree with what I said, I also 
dont have anything  further to add to what Ive already said.
Mr A has set out that the initial engineers report said the fault was with the chicken fryer. He 
also commented that the equipment hasnt  been tested with a connection  to a gas supply. I 
appreciate and understand Mr As comments. But its ultimately  his responsibility to 
demonstrate that there was an actual fault with the equipment. And I havent seen enough to 
show there was an actual fault.
I acknowledge that the goods  werent  inspected with the gas supply attached. But I cant  
ignore the two independent reports which didnt diagnose any specific  faults  with the goods.  
Ultimately, I dont think Mr A has given me enough to conclude  that there was a fault with the 
goods that was present or developing at the point of supply. So it follows  that I still cant say 
that the goods were of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And I still dont think  
Universal is responsible  for whats happened.
goods Mr A wanted  to return
I note Mr A says that the goods he wanted  to return werent as described.  But this is contrary 
to what he complained to Universal at the time where he said I realised I had no need for a 
chip dump and fryer. So, I called you and requested both machines to be retuned  and 
money taken off my finance agreement for the returns. So Mr A said at the time that he 
wanted to return  the goods because he didnt need them, not that he didnt receive  the 
goods he asked  for.
But irrespective of this, while  I note Mr As comments, I havent seen enough to say that he 
didnt receive the goods that he asked  P to supply.
Mr As losses
Mr A wants  Universal to compensate him for his losses that have arisen due to him not being 
able to work. But as I dont think Universal  is at fault for these losses,  I cant require it to 
compensate Mr A for whats happened.
Mr A says that he still hasnt received the refund for the £100 he spent in August 2017 that 
he says he was promised  would be refunded. But it appears that P agreed  to refund this. So 
Mr A would need to discuss this with P separately.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5282549