K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a claim  for medical  
expenses under her travel  insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs E held an annual  travel insurance policy, provided by ERGO.
Unfortunately Mrs E fell ill while abroad  and was admitted to hospital.  ERGOs records show
Mrs E contacted it a few days  later to register a claim and ERGO telephoned  the hospital  to
ask for a medical  report on the same  day.
ERGO spoke to Mrs E a number of times while she was in hospital. Mrs E said the treating
doctor had told her the admission was nothing to do with any pre-existing medical  conditions
and ERGO  didnt mention anything about  needing  information from Mrs Es GP at this point.
Mrs E was later discharged from hospital  and told ERGO shed be driving back  to the UK as
originally planned  after having some rest.
When ERGO  received  the full medical  report,  it said it would need to see medical records
from Mrs Es GP and sent her a consent  form by email. ERGO then telephoned  Mrs E while
she was driving back  to the UK to explain it needed  her medical records and that shed need
to pay a £50 fee for this.
Mrs E wasnt  happy to provide this information  and told ERGO shed seen her GP the day
before travelling abroad in order to receive the results of an x-ray shed had just over a week
earlier. Mrs E said the results of the x-ray hadnt  come back  at that time but her GP told her
she had a sinus problem  and was fit to travel. But it later turned out the x-ray results showed
Mrs E had pneumonia.
Based on this, ERGO said Mrs Es claim wasnt covered under her policy because shed had
a change in health since she bought the cover  and because her insurance didnt provide
cover for symptoms of undiagnosed medical  conditions.
Unhappy, Mrs E brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think the policy terms ERGO had relied on to decline the claim applied
to Mrs Es circumstances. So she recommended that ERGO  should pay the claim, as well as
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs E experienced.
ERGO didnt  agree,  so the complaint  was passed to me. I made my provisional decision 
about the complaint in July 2019. In it I said:
The policy  term which ERGO is relying  on to decline Mrs Es claim is one which  is 
commonly found in annual travel insurance policies. The term requires  a policyholder  to 
notify the insurer of any significant change in their health which  happens after the policy is 
bought.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Es policy say:
If after you purchase your policy.any of the following happens:
you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
Ref: DRN59982172your doctor, or consultant changes  your  prescribed  medication
you receive inpatient  medical treatment
you are placed on a waiting list for investigation or medical treatment then you
must contact..
This may result in an additional  premium  to allow cover to continue, to add additional
Terms and Conditions  to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed
conditions or for the condition that has undergone  significant change.
Based on the information which Mrs E gave ERGO about her medical  history, I cant see that
any of the above applied  to her when she departed on her trip.
ERGO has also mentioned a policy exclusion  for pre-existing medical conditions, which
includes undiagnosed conditions. But theres  no evidence that Mrs E was under investigation
for what later turned out to be pneumonia at the time the policy  was sold.
This means,  based  on the information  Ive seen, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for
ERGO to rely on the policy terms it has quoted to turn down  Mrs Es claim.
However a policyholder has a duty to co-operate with an insurer if they wish for their claim to
be considered. As is common in most  insurance  policies,  Mrs Es policy requires her to
substantiate her claim and this includes providing  all of the evidence which ERGO
reasonably requires at Mrs Es own expense.
An insurer  is entitled to make reasonable investigations into a claim before accepting cover.
In certain circumstances, this includes asking for some of the policyholders medical history.
If Mrs Es hospital admission was, for example, related to a broken limb after a sudden  and
unexpected fall then I might  not think it was reasonable  for ERGO  to ask for details  of
Mrs Es medical history  from her GP. But, having reviewed the content of Mrs Es medical
report from the treating  hospital, ERGO  decided it did need Mrs Es medical  history  in order
to satisfy itself if the claim was covered or if the change  in health term or any other policy
exclusions applied. I dont  think it was unreasonable for ERGO to request  this information
from Mrs E, and I think ERGO asked  Mrs E for this information as soon as it realised the
information could  be relevant to the circumstances of her claim.
Theres no indication from ERGOs claims notes that it confirmed cover was accepted  either
to the hospital or to Mrs E. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, it would
be very unusual for an insurer  to confirm cover without having  seen  a medical report.
ERGOs notes indicate Mrs E was already in hospital when she contacted  it to tell it about
the claim.  So, even  if I thought ERGO should  reasonably have told Mrs E it would need her
medical history at an earlier point, Im not persuaded this would have made any difference  to
the costs Mrs E incurred.
This means  I think  the fair and reasonable outcome  in this case  would  be for ERGO to
reconsider Mrs Es claim. But if Mrs E wants her claim reconsidered then shell  need  to
provide the medical information which ERGO has asked for, at her own expense.
I dont think it would  be fair to recommend that ERGO should  pay Mrs E compensation in the
circumstances.
ERGO accepted my provisional decision but Mrs E didnt. Mrs E says its unfair for her to 
have to pay for the release of her medical information if ERGO  is ultimately  unlikely to 
Ref: DRN59982173accept her claim. Mrs E also says having  to pay for her medical  records is an additional 
charge on top of the policy premium and this should be made clear. Overall,  Mrs E thinks if 
ERGO wants  her medical information then ERGO should pay for this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said in response to my provisional decision and its 
clear she feels  strongly about  the issue. 
But if a policyholder wants to make  an insurance  claim its up to the policyholder to present 
all of the details  and satisfy the insurer that they have a valid claim which  is covered under  
the terms and conditions of their policy. This includes bearing  the cost of providing any 
supporting information which is reasonably required by the insurer.   
This is standard  practice  in the insurance  industry  and I think its made  clear  in the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Es policy that any costs  associated with substantiating  the claim will be at 
Mrs Es expense. 
I understand Mrs E may be able to access her medical records for free but travel  insurers 
will often  ask a GP to complete a medical certificate answering a specific  set of questions,  
and GPs often charge a fee for completing  this certificate. I dont  agree  that this has the 
effect of increasing  Mrs Es policy premium  this fee isnt benefitting ERGO, its being 
passed on to her GP. 
I dont think ERGO can give a fair indication of the likelihood of Mrs Es claim being  paid 
without the medical  information it has asked for. But, regardless of what  the likely  outcome 
is, its still up to Mrs E to pay any costs associated with presenting her claim to ERGO.     
ERGO has agreed to reconsider  Mrs Es claim and Id expect it to take full account of any 
new medical information provided to it when doing  so. But if Mrs E wants her claim 
reconsidered shell need to pay any fees charged by her GP for the release of the medical 
information which ERGO is asking for. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint in part. 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG must reconsider Mrs Es claim,  subject  to Mrs E providing the 
medical information requested at her own expense. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.  
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5998217