K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2010. Mr W says Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Tesco had to make  it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr W says it wasnt  made clear  to him that the PPI was optional.
The credit card was taken out via an online application. Tesco  has sent us a screenshot of 
what it says the online  application form wouldve looked like. And this included  a section on 
PPI with yes and no options  to be selected  to show  whether the customer  wanted to take 
it out.
Tesco has also sent us a copy of Mr Ws credit card agreement.  And this includes a section 
on PPI, with a box to be ticked and a space  for him to add his electronic signature if he 
wanted to take it out. And the box has been ticked and Mr Ws electronic  signature has been  
added in the space.
Based on this, I think Tesco did make it clear  to Mr W that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that he chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the policy  
couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. So it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr W off taking it 
out.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN51415362To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141536