K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about an application he made, to lease a car from Eureka Leasing Limited.
background
In early November 2018, Mr M made an application  to Eureka to start a lease agreement  for 
a car. Eureka sent Mr M an email shortly afterwards,  to say that his application had been 
successful and that he could now look to choose  a car and complete the process. Mr M says 
he subsequently spoke to Eureka about a car. 
Eureka sent Mr M further emails and in December 2018, they told Mr M that they could have  
the car he wanted  ready for the first, or second  week of January  2019. Eureka spoke to 
Mr M about his income and expenditure details and a couple of weeks later, he paid a 
purchase fee of £180. Mr M says he sold a car he was using at the time, in preparation for 
the arrival  of the car from Eureka.
In late January 2019, Eureka told Mr M that they could not provide him with a lease 
agreement. They then refunded the £180  purchase fee in April 2019. Mr M says he sold his 
car on the strength of what  Eureka had told him previously. He also says this caused 
problems with his employer and he had to hire cars, so he could continue  to work and see a 
close family member, who was very ill at the time.
A few months later, in April 2019,  Mr M leased  a different car with a different company. But 
he was unhappy  with how Eureka had treated him, so he made a complaint. In their final 
response, Eureka  said that they could  have been  clearer with Mr M about the progress of his 
application. Eureka  didnt accept that it was reasonable  for Mr M to have  sold his car, in light 
of what they told him about his application,  and declined to pay for his car hire costs. 
However, Eureka did offer Mr M £300  for the inconvenience they had caused, although they 
chose to withdraw this offer shortly  afterwards.
Mr M didnt  accept Eurekas response  and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms case and concluded  Eureka had given Mr M the impression 
his application  had been approved. She found that Eureka should  pay Mr Ms hire car costs  
from December 2018 to March 2019. She also said Eureka should increase their offer to 
£800 for the distress and inconvenience  he had suffered.
Although Mr M accepted  the investigators  conclusions, Eureka did not. They said that Mr M 
wasnt encouraged  to sell his car and that he would always have incurred costs of some kind 
to run a car, in the timescale put forward by the investigator.
Recently, we have  contacted Mr M and Eureka. An investigator explained to them,  that some  
of the car hire costs incurred by Mr M, were from a period  of time, before the delivery date,  
put forward by Eureka. So, he concluded  that Eureka shouldnt have to refund any car hire 
costs prior to January 2019. He also said that having reconsidered  the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M had told us about, that £250 seemed a fair amount for Eureka to pay to 
Mr M. 
Eureka didnt respond to the investigators  further conclusions. Mr M replied to say he 
disagreed and said he sold his car in late 2018, off the back  of Eurekas promised delivery  
date, of a different car in November. He also said he expected a larger payment for the 
Ref: DRN51429632distress and inconvenience he had been caused,  because he was forced  to hire cars. He 
said he had to prioritise hiring cars, over other financial commitments he had at the time.
Mr Ms case has now been  passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the impression  Eureka gave to Mr M.
Eureka sent Mr M an email in early  November 2018, to say that his application  had been  
accepted and invited him to start to choose a car. I dont think this message meant that 
Mr Ms application and car order was complete,  because no delivery date had been 
confirmed and there was still another part of the application to finish.  Mr M says he spoke 
directly to Eureka, after he received this message, about ordering a car.
The records  Mr M has sent us, show that the car selection, the income and expenditure 
exercise, the payment of the purchase fee and him sending Eureka other documents  they 
required, didnt  start until the middle  of December 2018. I have thought  carefully about all the 
documents and records here. There is nothing to show  that Mr M ordered a car with a 
delivery date, prior to the middle of December 2018. 
I accept Mr M may have spoken to Eureka, about a different car in November 2018. But, 
having considered all the evidence, on balance, I think Mr M changed his mind  about the car 
he wanted, before Eureka  had started  the second  part of his application.  So, I dont think 
Mr M was told by Eureka, that he could  expect a car to be delivered before January 2019.
When Eureka started  the next part of his application,  they sent him an email to say:
we can have this to you for the 1st/2nd week in Jan. Well just need to go through the 
affordability side of your application  then we can send you your vehicle order  form 
thereafter.
Eureka then went through the second  part of Mr Ms application and he paid the £180 
purchase fee. I have  considered the wording at the end of Eurekas order  form for the car, 
where it says that the delivery  date is only an estimate. But, earlier and more prominently on 
the order form, it gave  Mr M a delivery  date of the middle of January 2019.
Having considered everything, I think the emails from Mr Ms contact at Eureka, suggested 
Mr M would have the car he had chosen by the middle of January 2019. I also think the 
order form supported what Eureka had told him in the emails.  So, I think  Mr M was given the 
impression that he would  have his chosen  car by the first or second week of January 2019. 
Because this did not happen, I think Eureka  misled Mr M about his application,  in that he 
thought it had been approved, when actually,  it was yet to be fully decided.
the hire car costs
Mr M says that he sold his car in late 2018,  because  of the delivery  date given to him by 
Eureka. Mr M has sent us receipts  from a hire car company, to show  the costs  he had to pay 
Ref: DRN51429633whilst without a car. In all the circumstances,  Im persuaded  Mr M did sell his car and paid 
for the car hire costs  hes told us about.
I think it was reasonable  for Mr M to prepare for when he was due to get a new car. Theres  
some administration involved, that he would  have needed to organise. And it was 
reasonable for him to make plans to only incur  costs for one car. So, I think  it was 
reasonable that Mr M arranged the sale of his car, prior to the arrival of the new car from 
Eureka. 
Eureka subsequently declined Mr Ms application  in late January 2019. By this time,  he had 
already sold his car. I have concluded that Mr M wasnt  given  a delivery  date, prior to 
January 2019.  So, I dont  think  it would  be fair for Eureka to refund the hire car costs, Mr M 
incurred in December  2018. I think Mr M was aware  he would not take delivery of a car until 
the start of the new year. I dont think Eureka can be held responsible for Mr M being  without 
a car at this time.
However, I have also concluded that Eureka misled Mr M into thinking he would  get a new 
car at the start of the new year. And it was reasonable  for him to sell his car in preparation 
for that date. So, I think its fair for Eureka to compensate Mr M, by paying for the cost of the 
car hire from January to March 2019.  
I have looked  at the receipts Mr M sent to us, and he paid a total of £328.31  from January to 
March 2019. The cost of the lease Mr M was planning to take with Eureka, was around £400 
a month. So, I think the costs Mr M incurred were reasonable in comparison.  
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Eureka to pay Mr M £328.31 for the hire car costs  
he paid whilst waiting for a new car, with a different lease company. I also think that Mr M 
was without the use of the amounts which he paid for the car hire. So, I think  Eureka should 
add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to the hire cost amount, from the date the car 
hire was paid for, to the date of this complaint is settled. 
the distress and inconvenience  caused
When Mr M sold his car, he says it was inconvenient for him to have to arrange  car hire and 
plan his work around that. He says that a close  relative  was suffering from a serious illness 
and not having a car meant he had to think about  costs, when he was planning to visit. Mr M 
has also told us that he had to prioritise the car hire over other  financial commitments.
I agree  that Mr M was put to some inconvenience  by Eureka giving him the impression that 
his application  for a lease agreement had been accepted. But, having  considered  everything 
he has told us, I think Mr M was still able to meet his work  commitments, albeit by hiring a 
car. 
Ive also thought about the lease costs Mr M would have paid, had the agreement  with 
Eureka gone ahead.  I think  it is likely Mr M would have still needed  to have prioritised some 
commitments above others,  given  that the lease costs were more  than the hire car costs he 
incurred. So, I dont  think Eureka worsened his financial  circumstances here.
Mr M has told us that another reason he hired  a car, was to avoid  a lengthy train journey  to 
visit a sick relative. I have considered Mr Ms very difficult personal circumstances at the 
start of 2019. Although I sympathise and I can see that it must have been a very difficult  time 
Ref: DRN51429634for him and his family,  I think  he was still able to visit that relative, by using the hire cars. I 
accept though, that it may not have been  as frequently as he would have liked.
In all the circumstances, I think it is fair that Eureka make a payment to Mr M for the distress 
and inconvenience  he experienced.  So, I think its fair that Eureka pay Mr M £250  for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused.
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Eureka Leasing 
Limited should: 
1.pay Mr M a total of £328.31 for the costs he incurred hiring cars;
2.pay Mr M interest at an annual rate of 8% simple for each amount he paid for car 
hire, from the date he made each payment, to the date of settlement;  and
3.pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Eureka must  pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  Mr M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Eureka deducts  tax from any interest  they pay to Mr M, they should  provide him with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one. This is so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5142963