K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way Legal & General Insurance  Limited dealt with an insurance 
claim under a home insurance  policy.
background 
There is a detailed background  to this complaint, which the parties are aware of, but Ill 
summarise the main points.
In early September 2017 Mr W reported damage to his home caused by an escape of water. 
L&G appointed a loss adjuster who in turn appointed contractors to inspect the level of 
damage and required  works. 
Strip out works commenced around mid-November  and further work occurred in early 
December with a drying  certificate provided  around  8 December.
Repairs were due to commence in December and Mr W had requested some additional 
works. L&G said it would pay 50% for undamaged matching items (that is where a matching 
item had been  damaged and formed part of a set). 
In early January  2018 a gas leak was found and it was later discovered that a gas pipe had 
been damaged/disturbed when removing a kitchen unit. The matter was rectified by an 
appropriately qualified  gas engineer.  
Repairs continued with cooking facilities restored in mid February. Mr W wasnt happy with 
the standard of some  of the repairs and further rectification took place. Other  issues  were 
raised with flooring and electricals and in early March Mr W agreed a settlement of 
£4,551.37 and L&G said it would reimburse  VAT on top of that amount on receipt of a VAT 
registered invoice.
Mr W wanted compensation for loss of earnings  and L&G said it would  review  this if Mr W 
provided evidence  that it had caused  such a loss. Mr W wanted his property in storage to 
continue at L&Gs expense which  it agreed  to provide until 20 April 2018  some weeks  after 
settlement had been agreed.  L&G accepted  it had caused Mr W trouble and upset during the 
handling of the claim  and awarded him £350  compensation. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and was of the view that L&G needed to 
do a bit more  to put things right. He made some recommendations  and the parties moved 
closer to reaching an agreement. But there  were  issues about VAT and lost earnings in 
particular that the parties couldnt  agree. So the investigators final opinion  was that L&G 
should do the following;
Pay Mr W £850 compensation (less any amount  paid so far)
oL&G agreed to this
Pay Mr W an additional £80 disturbance allowance to reflect an uplift for Christmas
oL&G agreed to this
Pay VAT on receipt of invoices  from Mr W.
But the investigator didnt think it was fair to ask L&G to pay Mr Ws alleged lost earnings of 
around £253. Mr W had made  the case that the stress of the delays and poor claim handling 
caused him to take a short period of time off work (self-certified) and so he missed out on 
Ref: DRN52460132enhancements to his usual pay. The investigator  explained the nature of the claim would 
have caused some distress and any additional distress was catered for in the award of 
compensation.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review  his case, and 
that he would be happy to discuss the issues further.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues  in dispute that I need  to make a decision  about are fairly  narrow  now. But Ive 
considered everything  weve been  provided carefully  in reaching my final outcome that I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
L&G has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly, and in this case theres  no issue taken 
by L&G that it failed to do so. It appears and is accepted  that the repairs should  have taken 
just a few weeks  whereas  it took around  6 months  to reach a settlement and that was 
because all the damage hadnt yet been  fully repaired.
The nature of the leak and extent of damage  meant  that Mr W had to move  out for a short 
period and then live through some of the repair work. Without  anything  going wrong, the 
claim in itself would  cause distress and inconvenience that L&G is not either contractually, or 
fairly responsible for.
That being  said it reasonably follows in my view that poor workmanship and poor claim 
handling is contrary to the duty to handle the claim promptly and fairly. And so where that 
negatively impacts on Mr W compensation is a reasonable way for L&G to recognise  that 
impact. In this case Mr W experienced delays and poor communication as a consequence of 
L&Gs handling. This meant he had to live through the mess  and upheaval longer than he 
should have and make  arrangements with L&G and its agents to accommodate further visits.
Its not an exact science  to say how long repairs will actually take  in my experience  12 to 
16 weeks for a claim like Mr Ws isnt unusual.  I note in this case there were tests for 
asbestos and his property had to be dried before repairs  could take place. A cash settlement 
was agreed at around the six months  point. Im satisfied the £850 that L&G has agreed to 
pay fairly represents the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr W alleges that a short period off work was a result of the poor way L&G had handled his 
claim, and he suffered  a financial loss as a result. In support of this Mr W sent a letter from a 
nurse who suggests the insurance claim was the cause of the stress and therefore the 
absence. Im not sufficiently persuaded by the letter that it demonstrates Mr Ws absence  
from work was, on balance, directly related to L&Gs  claim handling. 
Evidence of stress related  illness and absence  from work would be more  persuasive if from 
a General Practitioner although  I appreciate Mr W self-certified. And its also more  
persuasive where a medical opinion has been reached based  on direct  and 
contemporaneous examination and where the medical opinion  gives  persuasive  chronology  
and reasoning. 
Ref: DRN52460133While I appreciate the letters author is well-intentioned Im not persuaded that it shows, on 
balance, Mr Ws absence was more likely than not a result of poor claim-handling.  Im not 
therefore awarding loss of earnings  separately.
L&G has offered  a reasonable way forward on the VAT issue. The sum paid as a settlement 
was to reflect the cost of repairs  not including VAT. And if Mr W provides evidence from the 
merchant or tradesperson  showing he paid VAT then L&G will reimburse  that part. Some 
commercial entities dont  charge  VAT for a variety of reasons and so if Mr W hasnt paid the 
VAT then hes not out of pocket on that aspect. That being said if he paid it he should 
reasonably provide evidence of that. 
While Mr W thinks the VAT issue wasnt made clear, having seen the emails between  him 
and the loss adjuster I think it was clear hed be paid VAT on foot of a VAT invoice. And 
given Mr W was enquiring  about  same  with L&G it seems reasonable to expect that he 
would have kept the receipts for the short period in question, if indeed he was unsure. I dont 
think L&G was unclear or misleading on this part.
L&G has paid an enhanced disturbance allowance for the Christmas period and Im satisfied  
thats fair. And overall Im satisfied that £850 compensation fairly reflects the totality of 
distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Legal & General Insurance Limited  to do the following;
Pay Mr W £850 compensation (less any amount  paid so far)1
Pay Mr W an additional £80 disturbance allowance to reflect an uplift for Christmas
Pay VAT on receipt of invoices  from Mr W demonstrating hes paid VAT for repairs  or 
works related  to the insured incident.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
1 L&G must pay the compensation due within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W accepts my final 
decision. If L&G pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on the compensation due from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN5246013