K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that The Share  Centre  Limited failed to progress her application  to transfer  
in her ISA promptly, failed to pursue the third party provider within the time promised and 
that this led to a loss.
background
After sending in her transfer application, The Share Centre acknowledged receipt on 7 
February 2018. It said the process could take up to four weeks.  It couldnt  accept one of the 
funds so this had to be transferred in in cash and then reinvested. 
On 1 May,  after Miss Ts father  had complained,  the existing provider said that it had not 
received an application from The Share Centre  and that it required a certified  paper copy  of 
an application where child funds were involved.  The Share  Centre then did this.
This process  took till 6 August 2018.
The Share Centre partially upheld Miss Ts complaint offering her £250  in lieu of its failure to 
pursue things more  quickly.
An investigator at this service noted that The Share Centre had told Miss Ts father, who had 
also requested a transfer of his funds, that it would chase the existing provider every two 
weeks to ensure the transfer was completely expeditiously. He felt this was a standard  to be 
applied to this case as well.
He noted that the cash received from the existing provider was £1,100  and virtually the same  
sum was reinvested on 6 August.  He thought it was reasonable to consider  the time it took to 
purchase the shares once the existing  provider had received the paper application on 27 
April 2018. The valuation was received on 3 May 2018 and the instructions to sell were  sent 
on 9 May i.e. the process  to give instructions  to sell took eight days.
The Share Centre chased the existing provider on 6 July 2018, received  the cash  on 1 
August 2018 and purchased the shares  on 6 August 2018. This meant  the time taken to sell 
and purchase,  when  the existing provider had already given a valuation, took 21 days.
In his view, had The Share Centre carried out the process as promised and followed up the 
original electronic application after 14 days,  on 21 February, the shares could've been 
purchased 29 days  later on 3 April.
So it should  put Miss T back  into the position she would've been in, had the delays not 
occurred by reinstating the number of shares she would  now own if the purchase  had taken 
place on 3 April 2018.
Finally, he felt the £250 compensation already  offered  for the trouble and upset this had 
caused was fair and reasonable.
The Share Centre did not agree, and said:
It fully accepts that the transfer  took longer  than it should have and that it did not 
chase the request  or keep the customer up-to-date  with progress
Ref: DRN57994242But given  the existing providers backlog  at this time, it is unlikely that the transfer  
would have completed within four weeks was questionable
It is therefore unfair for all of the blame for the delay to be laid solely at its door
A more reasonable timescale  to purchase the stock from the existing providers  cash 
would be 4 June
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the reasons he outlined. I am not sure, 
therefore, there is much more I can add to his explanation.
I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities that if the Share Centre acted with appropriate 
timeliness the new shares could have been  bought  by 3 April. I acknowledge that it is 
possible the existing  provider would not have acted quickly  enough  to ensure this occurred 
but, on balance,  I think it is more likely than not that it would have occurred by this date.
It must therefore calculate how many shares Ms T could have bought  on this date with the 
same sum of money compared to those she was able to buy in August. If this money  would 
have purchases more stock/shares, it must purchase this shortfall on Ms Ts behalf.
It must also pay the £250 trouble and upset payment previously offered as part of the overall 
£70 offer if this has yet to be paid.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Share  Centre Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5799424