K820x#14complaint
Mrs G initially  complained  about delays by LEBC Group Limited when transferring her 
deferred pension  benefits to a personal pension. She was concerned the delays would mean  
she would  be left with a deferred  annuity  when the scheme was wound  up.
Mrs G later complained that she was not able to access her policy after it had been 
transferred to the personal pension. She says that is because of the way it was set up by 
LEBC.
background
Mrs G was a member  of her employers defined  benefit pension scheme until 
December 2017.  The pension scheme was being  wound up and she was presented with a 
number of options. The trustees of the scheme  appointed LEBC  to provide advice to 
members. It was LEBCs responsibility to present the various  options  to Mrs G.
Documentation prepared by LEBC set out the following options available  to Mrs G: 
Transfer her pension  benefits to a deferred  annuity
Transfer her pension  benefits to a pension  with reduced annual  charges that LEBC  
had selected
Transfer her pension  benefits to a pension  provider  of her choice.
Mrs G was concerned LEBC indicated that she would be transferred into a deferred annuity  
when her favoured route was to transfer into the pension  LEBC  had selected.
LEBC wrote  to Mrs G on 11 May 2018  with a recommendation report  to transfer the scheme 
benefits to a personal pension plan. The funds LEBC  recommended were also included in 
the report. However, the option forms were not included.  The deadline for the guaranteed 
transfer value  was 8 June  2018.  
The deadline  was later extended by the trustees  to 22 August  2018. The option  forms were 
received on 11 June 2018.  
An adjudicator looked into this complaint and limited  the scope of his investigation to 
whether or not the instructions of Mrs G were  carried  out by LEBC.   
The adjudicator noted that the option form was signed by Mrs G on 18 May 2018 but wasnt 
received at LEBC until 11 June 2018. He was satisfied that LEBC  had received the form 
before the revised deadline  date.  Although  the communication between both parties could 
have been clearer,  LEBC had rectified the situation and that LEBC  had accepted  Mrs Gs 
option to transfer  her benefits. 
Mrs G is being represented  by her husband. Mr G was unhappy with the adjudicators 
investigation and said he would seek legal advice. 
Subsequently, Mr G contacted us again to say Mrs G was having problems accessing her 
pension because of the way the plan was set up. He was also unhappy  they paid for LEBCs 
initial advice and now discovers Mrs G is paying  LEBCs management fees.  Mrs G says that 
she has lost money as a result of not being  able to access the platform.
Ref: DRN59642352We obtained information that shows where Mrs Gs pension funds were invested  and the 
charges deducted.  No adviser charges have ever been  taken from the plan. The provider  
says Mrs G is able to access her plan using her account.
I issued my provisional decision. I said Mrs G initially complained  because  she was 
concerned about  delays  by LEBC which meant  she would be left with a deferred annuity. 
The history  of events  set out above  shows there was initially  a deadline of 8 June  2018.  The 
deadline was extended and Mrs G was able to transfer her pension  benefits to the personal 
pension. 
LEBC did not enclose a form with their letter of 11 May 2018. However, the form was 
provided and Mrs G was able to transfer her pension. LEBC explained the deadline date was 
pushed back on a number  of occasions.  Mrs G was not penalised because her form was 
returned after 8 June 2018.
The transfer value  was recalculated. The amount  actually transferred was lower than the 
original quotation.  LEBC explained to us this was because the scheme  was being wound up. 
The members received a share of the fund at the date the scheme  was wound up. I accept 
this explanation of how the transfer value was calculated  for the scheme. 
I was satisfied LEBC did not cause any delays, or loss, to Mrs Gs transfer value.
Mrs G invested in a fund recommended by LEBC. She complained she was not able to 
access the plan and instructions were given by LEBC. The only instructions appear to have 
been when the plan was set up in accordance with the advice given. I was not persuaded 
LEBC did anything wrong in setting up the plan.
The personal pension  provider confirmed that no adviser charges had been paid on the plan. 
Again, I was not persuaded LEBC did anything wrong.
Mrs G said she had not been able to access her pension using the web portal. However, the 
provider told us that she had access to her pension and was able to change the funds 
selected. I hadnt seen any evidence to support  what Mrs G said that she had not been  able 
to access her pension plan. I could not therefore  say that LEBC  had done anything  wrong  or 
caused any loss. 
I asked Mrs G to send  me any evidence she had if the conclusions I had reached were  
wrong.
Mr G replied to my provisional decision. He was not happy with our investigation  and made a 
subject access request. All of the evidence  we have has been sent to Mrs G. No further 
evidence or arguments  have  been made to explain why my conclusions  set out above were 
wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
decision as set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN59642353Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with our investigation.  However, I have explained that the 
transfer value  Mrs G received was from her share of the pension fund. There is no loss as a 
result of any delays and Mrs G was able to transfer to a personal pension.
Whilst Mrs G has said she is not able to access her pension benefits,  the pension  provider 
told us that she is able to do this using  their portal. Mrs G has not explained why she cannot 
do this or provided  evidence for me to consider on this point.
In summary,  I am satisfied Mrs G received  the transfer value she was entitled to from her 
employers pension scheme. I am not satisfied any delay has been caused by LEBC,  or by 
the way the pension plan has been set up.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5964235