K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr L are unhappy with the compensation offered by Aviva Life and Pensions 
UK Limited  (Aviva) after it incorrectly declined a claim on their joint life and critical illness  
policy in 2012.  
background
Mrs and Mr L took out a joint life and critical illness policy in 1994. Unfortunately  Mrs L was 
diagnosed with cancer in 2012. Mrs L says she attempted to make a claim with Aviva in 
2012 but she was told she didnt have  critical illness cover  on her policy.  
In January 2019 Mrs L contacted Aviva  about the maturity of the policy. She then became 
aware she did have  critical  illness cover so she made a complaint.  Aviva  agreed to review  
her claim. But it wasnt able to find any record of the conversation that took place  in 2012. So 
it decided to accept  Mrs Ls claim and backdate it to 2012 with a lump  sum payment of 
£18,000. In its final response - dated 13 February 2019 - it said its offer to pay interest on the 
lump sum at a rate of 1% higher than the Bank  of Englands base rate and refund the 
premiums Mrs L had paid since 2012 was fair. 
Mrs and Mr L were  unhappy with the interest  rate that had been applied to the lump  sum and 
the compensation. They felt the interest rate should have been 8%. And if they had received 
the lump sum they would have paid some of their mortgage off and benefited from lower 
monthly payments  as a result. So they brought their complaint to this service.
Aviva reviewed its offer and agreed it should offer 8% simple interest per year on the lump 
sum payment and the premiums  which  had been paid towards the policy since  2012.  It also 
offered to pay £750 compensation and £775.44 towards Mrs and Mr Ls mortgage. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt Avivas offer of £750  compensation was fair. 
He was satisfied  that Aviva had calculated the amounts involved correctly. He also felt that 
8% simple  interest was a fair rate to apply as it was in line with our services  normal  
approach to making up for losing the use of money  that shouldve  been paid earlier.  And as 
Aviva had offered  to make a further payment to reflect the difference  in mortgage interest - 
overall the offer was reasonable.
Mrs and Mr L didnt agree. They felt the £750  compensation wasnt adequate to make  up for 
the stress, financial strain and upset theyd been through. They  also felt the settlement still 
leaves them in a worse financial position than theyd be in, had the claim been paid in 2012. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I wanted to say how sorry I am to hear of Mrs Ls diagnosis and her personal  
circumstances.  
Ref: DRN51288002This services approach  in cases such as this is to ask Aviva to put Mrs and Mr L back  in the 
position they would have  been if it wasnt for Avivas error  in this case not paying Mrs L a 
lump sum under her critical illness policy in 2012.  Mrs and Mr L have said they would have 
used the £18,000 to pay off some of their mortgage.
I accept it would be hard for Mrs and Mr L to prove just how much of the lump sum they 
would have used  to repay their mortgage  or to show how theyve been impacted financially 
by the claim not being paid in 2012.  Given the time that has passed,  I agree with the 
investigator that the way Aviva has calculated its offer is fair in the circumstances. When  
making its offer of £775.44,  Aviva  considered  the current mortgage and a hypothetical one 
provided by Mrs and Mr L. It has then subtracted £18,000 from their mortgage statement as 
per the balance on 1 February 2019.  Having  done  so, the hypothetical  mortgage  balance is 
£775 less. 
Mrs and Mr L have said they feel Aviva should pay them £1,500  in compensation. When 
making awards I have  to make a decision in line with the type of award  this service would 
normally recommend. Ive considered everything theyve said about the circumstances since  
2012. Having  done so, I believe £750 is a fair amount. This offer is a substantial award in 
recognition of the stress and frustration  this situation  has had on Mrs and Mr L. 
Aviva has added 8% interest  to the lump  sum and the premiums Mrs and Mr L paid, which is 
what I would  expect  it to do. And I believe this is an important point here when considering 
whether Mrs and Mr L have lost out financially. This service thinks a rate of 8% simple  
interest per year is appropriate to reflect the cost of Mrs L being deprived of the £18,000. 
This includes lost opportunities to save,  invest or where they have gone without some things 
they really needed  or may have benefited from. Im satisfied  paying off the mortgage falls 
under this. So, I believe Aviva offering the £775.44 mortgage payment goes beyond  what 
this service would  expect here. 
Aviva has offered £10,051.13 in compensation and interest as well as the £18,000 lump 
sum. Overall I think this is a fair amount when considering whats  happened here.  
my final decision
Im aware that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited has made  an offer to pay £10,051.13  to 
Mrs and Mr L. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5128800