K820x#14complaint
Mrs D acquired  a new vehicle in October  2015, by means of a 36 month hire agreement  with 
Ald Automotive Limited (ALD). She complains that, when she returned the vehicle in 
September 2018, ALD unfairly applied damage  charges  to her agreement  account. She also 
thinks the charges  are excessive. She wants  ALD to waive these charges.
background
ALD use an agent to collect and inspect returned  vehicles. The agents inspection  report 
identified chargeable vehicle bodywork damage  in three places, beyond normal wear and 
tear. Based on the inspection  report, ALD sent a damages invoice in October 2018 for £450 
to Mrs D.
Mrs D complained about this invoice, saying:
The collection agent spent about an hour at her home, photographing  and inspecting  
her vehicle   she asked the agent whether there  were any problems with the vehicle, 
and he replied there was nothing  to worry about
The agent immediately emailed his inspection report to her, which  she then signed 
and he subsequently took away the vehicle
And so she was very surprised to receive the invoice, because no damage had been 
pointed out to her when  the vehicle was collected
She also felt the amounts charged  were excessive for the damage identified as 
requiring repair, and she complained to ALD
ALD responded by email to Mrs Ds complaint, saying:
The collection agent was not trained to distinguish between damages caused  by fair 
wear and tear (for which  she would  not be charged), and damages beyond  fair wear 
and tear (which  were  recorded  on the invoice)
When the vehicle  was returned to ALDs premises, it was subjected  to a full 
inspection, which identified the invoiced damages  photographic images of these 
damages were taken at its premises
The charges,  which  were based on actual  costs previously incurred by ALD for such  
repairs, were used  to compensate ALD for the potential impact  of the damages on 
the vehicles sell-on  value
It could not see that it had done anything wrong, and so it was unable to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint
Mrs D then referred her complaint to us, saying:
ALD had not provided photographic evidence,  taken  at her home, of the invoiced 
damage  this means the damage  could have occurred after the collection agent took 
away her vehicle
She would  be willing  to pay the invoice  if, but only if, it could be shown that the 
identified damages were present when the vehicle was inspected at her home 
A second (more detailed) report from ALD on her vehicles  bodywork  damages,  
which she had recently received,  was not the document that she had signed at her 
home
This report  included  both information  added  at ALDs premises  (that is, after the 
vehicle had been taken away from her home), and an unauthorised image of her 
signature (which must have  been transferred into it from elsewhere)
 
Ref: DRN59348602ALD provided documentary evidence to us indicating  that it had included,  with its emailed 
response to Mrs Ds complaint, additional photographic images (taken at its premises) of the 
invoiced damages.
Our adjudicator did not think the complaint should  be upheld,  saying:
While  Mrs Ds vehicle  could have been  damaged  after it was collected  from her 
home, he felt it was much  more likely  that damages would have occurred  during  the 
period between October 2015  and September 2018
He felt unable  to comment specifically on ALDs charging practices, but he did not 
think the amounts  charged for each repair were excessive, based  on his experience  
of similar  complaints  
Comparing images of the invoiced damages with industry  standards, he was unable 
to disagree with ALD that these damages were beyond fair wear and tear
He acknowledged  Mrs Ds concerns about  the apparent unauthorised inclusion of her 
signature in an ALD report, but he clarified that the presence  or absence of her 
signature did not influence his view about  whether damages should be invoiced 
Mrs D disagreed with our adjudicator. And so this complaint was referred for review  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar  reasons.
At my request, ALD has provided to us a copy of an email it sent to Mrs D a week  before her 
vehicle was collected from her home. The email explains ALDs collection process, and 
specifically tells her that her vehicle will be inspected for damage. I find that the evidence I 
have seen firmly shows that ALD and its agent correctly  followed  this collection process.
I also share our adjudicators view that ALDs repair charges are not excessive. But I note 
that Mrs D disagrees with this view.
I note as well Mrs Ds comment (in her complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman Service)  
that she has leased vehicles from ALD for many years,  and that this is the first time the issue 
of damages has arisen. 
If Mrs D did have any concerns that her most  recent vehicle might  have damages beyond 
fair wear and tear  and given that she would have  known about the collection process  she 
could have obtained quotes for repairs and had any necessary work undertaken, before 
proceeding to collection. And, by doing so, Mrs D would have avoided ALDs repair charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5934860