K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992 
alongside a mortgage. Mr W says Bradford and Bingley PLC (B&B)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr W says he wasnt  informed the PPI was optional and he was led to believe it was 
automatically included.  But based  on what Ive seen,  I think  B&B made  it clear  that Mr W 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this. I say this having seen a copy of a separate PPI application form 
which shows that injury, illness and unemployment  cover was selected and the amount of 
monthly benefit required was entered. Mr W signed  this form so I think this reflected what he 
wanted at the time. Ive also seen that Mr W didnt  chose to take out PPI with his original 
mortgage  so I think he wouldve known PPI wasnt a condition  of lending with B&B at this 
time. And Ive not seen  any evidence that suggests it was a condition of the lending in 1992. 
Mr W cant remember if he was advised  to take out the PPI. B&B says it did recommend the 
PPI to him. As things stand, there isnt enough  information to determine  this point. But being  
able to do so isnt crucial  to the outcome because, had B&B recommended  the policy,  I think  
it wouldve  been a suitable recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. 
As a result, Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as B&B.
As a recommended  sale B&B had to check that the PPI was right for Mr W  and based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Mr W says he was entitled to 6  12 months worth of sick pay from his employer, so he 
didnt need this cover. But upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months and in addition to his sick pay, so these funds couldve been used for other means. I 
also havent seen  any evidence that Mr W had any other means  of making  his repayments 
had he been made redundant.  And Mr W was solely responsible for the mortgage payments 
so the PPI provided him with some  additional  security. So overall I dont think Mr Ws sick 
pay meant the policy wasnt suitable  for him. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. And Mr W says he wouldnt have taken out the policy if he had been  given  all the 
information about the policy. But Mr W chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So actually I dont think better  information  about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN54020162Ive also thought about the commission Mr W paid on his PPI  and whether B&B treated 
him unfairly.  
B&B has told us that the commission for Mr Ws PPI was less than half of what  he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how B&B has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ws commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
B&B treated  him unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mr W back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5402016