K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  protected or otherwise prevented him losing
money through a proposed car purchase.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to the parties. So Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here.
In July 2018 Mr P made the following  three payments from his HSBC  account to a third party 
to buy a car he saw advertised on AutoTrader:
Date Place/Location Amount (£)
21/07/2018 Online Banking 10
21/07/2018 Online Banking 5
21/07/2018 Online Banking 7,735
Ultimately Mr P never  received the car and HSBC didnt recover  his money or offer to 
reimburse him. Mr P remained unhappy  and referred his complaint about HSBC to us. As an 
investigator here was unable to reach  an agreement  between the parties on how to resolve 
matters, the case has been  passed  to me for a decision. 
I sent Mr P and HSBC  my provisional decision on 14 June 2021 explaining why I was 
minded to uphold  Mr Ps complaint, and the compensation  I thought was appropriate. Both 
HSBC and Mr P have told me that they accept my provisional decision, and so I am now 
ready to set out my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusions and for the same reasons as 
explained in my provisional decision.  Ive explained  my reasoning again below.
It is common ground that Mr P authorised  the payments. He was persuaded by the vendor  
into instructing HSBC to make the three payments from his account for a car he ultimately 
never received. I accept  that these were  authorised payments. So, although Mr P didnt 
intend paying the money and not receiving the car, under  the Payment Services Regulations  
and the terms and conditions of the account,  Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Ref: DRN51169252Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment  where the judge took a different view about  
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based  on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  taking into account  not just the law, but also regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
Im satisfied Mr Ps payment instruction of £7,735 on 21 July 2018 was unusual and 
uncharacteristic for the account. It was the third payment instruction that day to the same  
new payee for an amount that was unusual and uncharacteristic  for Mr P to pay away.  Given  
this, and everything Ive said above,  I think HSBC should have spoken appropriately to Mr P 
about the instruction to check everything was in order before  processing the payment , to 
protect Mr P from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, HSBC  did speak  to Mr P on the day in question both before and after his 
payment instruction for £7,735.
Im satisfied that the material  questions here then  and the ones the outcome of this 
complaint turns on  are did HSBC discuss  the payment instruction appropriately with Mr P; 
and if it didnt, would Mr Ps loss most likely have been avoided  if it had done so.
HSBC has provided  recordings of three calls it had with Mr P on 21 July 2018. In the first of 
these calls, Mr P had called HSBC  to arrange the initial payment of £10; he explained that 
he had tried to make  the payment  online  without  success; and HSBC offered to help him 
make the payment over the phone.  HSBC  asked for the details of the payee and account 
Mr P wished to pay. It also helped  Mr P set up online  banking  on his phone so he could 
make future payments online.
Ref: DRN51169253In the second  call, Mr P explained  that he had, by that time, one to two hours previously 
instructed the payment of £7,735 to the vendor, and the vendor said the payment hadnt 
been received.  HSBC  said the payment had left Mr Ps account and it was on the vendors 
bank to take payment; and it provided Mr P with a faster payment ID which it said could be 
used to help the vendors bank help track the payment.
In the third call, which I understand  took place at around 7.35pm,  Mr P again  told HSBC  that 
the vendor claimed not to have received the payment  of £7,735.  Mr P explained that he was 
still with the vendor and the vendor said there was nothing pending with his bank. HSBC  
said it could take up to 24 hours for the payment to arrive with the vendor. Mr P was 
understandably concerned about  where his payment was and he asked HSBC  if his money 
was safe; HSBC said yes  that the payment  had been sent to the details Mr P provided and 
it was sure Mr P had checked  those details with the vendor. Mr P told HSBC he was 
unhappy because  the vendor would not release the car until the payment was received; he 
asked HSBC if the payment could be reversed to which HSBC  said no; Mr P asked HSBC 
questions to try to ascertain what might be causing  the hold-up  and to assess whether the 
money was at risk.
I have not included all the details from the calls above. And I do understand that Mr P has 
said there was an earlier  call with HSBC, prior to first call noted above,  in which, Mr P says,  
he asked HSBC which method of payment  would  be most appropriate to pay a large amount 
for the car purchase  he was hoping to make. Weve asked HSBC to search  its records for 
this call and it has said it has been unable to find a record of this earlier call. I am satisfied 
that this doesnt  make  a difference here, and that for the reasons Ive explained in this 
decision, Mr Ps complaint  should  succeed.
By the time of the second and third calls on 21 July 2018 Mr P was audibly worried and 
distressed. He asked  whether his money  was safe and about  the mechanics  of the payment 
process, trying to understand, as a layperson  in such matters,  where  his payment was. 
HSBC as a financial  services professional, given the unusual and uncharacteristic  nature  of 
the payment instruction for £7,735  and also given the circumstances of the calls 
themselves  ought to have warned Mr P about fraud and scams in general, including the 
possibility of scams when  buying a vehicle like this.
HSBC would not have known the specific situation  that would unfold here: that the vendor 
would continue to say he had not received  the payment for £7,735. But HSBC  ought 
reasonably to have  known  of the possibility and to have warned Mr P about the difficulty  of 
recovering funds paid in this way and that, therefore, given the method  of purchase Mr P 
was proposing, he was at risk of financial harm.
I cannot say for certain what Mr P would  have done if HSBC had warned him about  this. It is 
possible that he would have wished to proceed  in any event  he was, after all, at the 
vendors property; and he had viewed  the car and undertaken some due diligence  around 
the purchase he was proposing to make.
Ive thought very carefully about this. I do find it particularly notable  that Mr P was audibly 
concerned on the calls,  in particular about the possibility of him not being able to pick up the 
car with his payment on its way to the vendor but not yet there. And Mr P has told us if 
HSBC warned him of the risk of financial harm he faced, he would have taken steps to 
secure the vehicle  he was buying   such as requesting  a key and blocking the car in with his 
own car, or asking the vendor to keep the key but leave  the car at his (Mr Ps) address until 
Ref: DRN51169254he received the money. I dont doubt Mr Ps sincerity. And I dont think, if HSBC had done 
what it should have,  that Mr P would have lost the £7,735.
Instead, I think that if HSBC had spoken to Mr P appropriately about the unusual and 
uncharacteristic payment instruction before it allowed it through  (as it should  have),  it is most 
likely that Mr P would  not have sought  to proceed with the payment  but would instead  have  
sought and chosen a safer method by which to make such a purchase or not have made 
such a purchase at all. I also note that in the calls that did happen, when Mr P asked 
whether the payment could be retrieved,  HSBC mentioned nothing  about the possibility  of 
financial harm or how it could help to try to prevent financial  harm to Mr P. Overall I do think 
it if had dealt with Mr P fairly and reasonably, as I would expect it to have as a financial 
services professional in a climate of an increased prevalence of fraud and scams, Mr P most 
likely would not have  lost this money.
I have considered whether Mr P should  bear some  responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence (which  might justify a reduction  in compensation). Mr P conducted  some  due 
diligence ahead of his planned  purchase  and went to the vendors property to inspect the 
vehicle and on becoming concerned about  his payment contacted  HSBC.  I am satisfied 
there was no contributory negligence on Mr Ps part.
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr P for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost. Im not persuaded the money, if Mr P had not lost it to the 
scam, would  simply have sat in his current account earning the prevailing interest rate of that 
account. So I think our normal interest rate of 8% simple per year is appropriate.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether HSBC  
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the payment from the payee 
bank, aside from considering whether HSBC should also refund to Mr P the tester  payments 
of £10 and £5. Im not persuaded these would  most  likely have  been  recoverable though, if 
things have proceeded as I think they most likely would  have.
I also think it is appropriate to make an award  of £400 for the distress  and inconvenience  
Mr P has suffered. I say this having  listened  to not just the three calls referred  to above, but 
all the call recordings HSBC has provided in respect  of this case. I dont think  HSBC  dealt  
with this matter well. Mr P lost a significant amount of money as a result and has since been 
facing the very real possibility for some time that he would not get this back.  HSBC  could 
and should have prevented this and it has made things worse by the way it subsequently 
dealt with this matter.
Ref: DRN51169255my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about  HSBC UK Bank Plc, and I 
direct it to:
pay Mr P £7,735 within 28 days of receiving  his acceptance of my final decision;
pay Mr P interest on that amount  at a rate of 8% simple per year. If HSBC  deducts 
tax from this interest, it should  provide  Mr P with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate; and
pay Mr P £400 for distress and inconvenience  within 28 days  of receiving his 
acceptance of my final decision,  failing which interest will thereafter accrue on that 
sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5116925