K822xcomplaint
Mr V has complained that because of Tradex Insurance  Company Limiteds mistakes  in handling 
his motor insurance policy he has a county court judgment (CCJ)  on his credit record.
Reference to Tradex includes its agents.
background 
Mr V had an accident. A court  decided that Tradex should settle part of the other drivers claim.  But 
Tradex didn't pay that amount promptly. The other side applied  to enforce the courts decision 
which resulted in the court granting  a CCJ against Mr V.
Mr V was unaware of the CCJ until he came to apply to re-mortgage  his home. But the CCJ 
prevented him from securing the mortgage he wanted.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2018. For ease Ive copied my provisional findings  
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
Tradex accepts that it didn't take the right action to prevent the CCJ being awarded  against Mr V. 
Its since taken steps action to try and have the CCJ set aside. But it hasn't  been able to do that 
formally.
But what  Tradex has done  successfully  is write  to the body  that manages the register of court 
judgments, which Ill refer to as R. Tradex explained  to R that the CCJ was awarded against Mr V 
because of its mistake and not because of anything Mr V did or didn't do. Ive also seen a letter 
from R to Tradex, in August 2018, confirming  that its written  to the relevant credit reference  
agencies to explain the situation and ask them to remove the CCJ from Mr Vs credit file.
Mr V gave us permission to access the information held about him by two such credit  reference 
agencies. I haven't  been able to access one of those accounts. But the other  account says that 
there isn't any court judgment information against Mr V or his address.  And it shows  Mr V as 
having a good credit score. In other  words  theres no record of the CCJ on Mr Vs credit  file. So, in 
effect, for credit reference purposes  it appears that the CCJ is no longer showing against Mr Vs 
credit history.
Mr V said that his previous mortgage term ended  in 2018. And he was looking to replace that. Hes 
told us that he was offered a new mortgage  that would cost him £511 a month,  which he says he 
lost because of the CCJ.  But he hasn't shown us any evidence, beyond  his comments, that 
mortgage was available  to him. He has given us papers to show  that his mortgage broker  found a 
mortgage for him, in March 2018,  with increased borrowing. And that his payments on that 
mortgage would have been  roughly £583.  And his mortgage broker  told us that Mr V wasn't able to 
take that mortgage offer because of the CCJ. And the CCJ was stopping Mr V from finding other 
alternative mortgages elsewhere.  So instead  Mr V renewed his mortgage with his current provider 
to whom he pays roughly  £638 a month.
Mr V says that, as a result, hes £127 a month (£638 - £511) out of pocket. And he thinks  thats  
going to continue for years to come. But I don't think thats  right. As Ive said above Mr V hasn't 
provided any paperwork to support that he was offered a mortgage  of £511. So it seems more 
Ref: DRN54349422likely that he would  have  taken the offer of the mortgage for £583, as hes said he wanted the extra 
borrowing that mortgage allowed in order to complete  some  work on his house.
From the evidence Ive seen I think its likely  that the CCJ did prevent Mr V from taking out a 
further mortgage. And I also think its likely  that Mr V renewed  his mortgage with his current 
provider and thats cost him more than he was intending to pay. Mr V hasn't provided this service 
with full details  of his current mortgage beyond the amount  he pays  monthly. So I can't see how 
much the lending is for or compare  the repayment periods etc. with the other mortgage his broker 
found. Those factors and other things will have  an effect on the cost of mortgage borrowing. So it's 
simply not possible for me to say by how much,  on a monthly basis, Mr V is out of pocket as I 
couldn't make like-for-like  comparisons between the mortgage products.
But Mr V has shown  that its most likely  he could  have secured another mortgage for £583, but the 
CCJ prevented that. And hes undoubtedly paying more than that now. So I do believe that the 
CCJ has had a financial effect on him. But that was before R wrote to the credit  reference agencies 
asking them to remove the CCJ from their records. And since then its unlikely that the CCJ will 
continue to have  the same  effect.  In other words Mr V should now be in a position to source 
another mortgage offer without that being affected  by the CCJ. That means that he should be able 
to take out another  more  suitable mortgage now should he wish to do so. 
But I understand that Mr V had already begun this process  once, and if it hadn't  been for Tradexs  
mistakes he would, in all likelihood,  have completed the process  many  months  ago. Its also likely 
that he could have used the additional  borrowing he had applied for to complete outstanding works 
on his house.  But because of the CCJ he hasn't  been able to do that. And the evidence Ive seen is 
that his mortgage repayments would have been  less than they are currently.
But it seems  to me that - because of Rs actions - the CCJ should no longer be affecting Mr Vs 
credit history.  So, if he wishes to Mr V should be able to replace his current  mortgage with one 
more suitable.  It follows  that the CCJ doesn't mean  he needs  to stay with his current  mortgage 
provider. So the CCJ shouldn't, as Mr V suspects, continue to affect his credit record  or the 
amounts he has to pay on his mortgage for years  to come. But its evident that the CCJ has had a 
significant impact on Mr Vs ability to borrow at the time he wanted to replace his mortgage. Its 
also clearly been  a source of distress and inconvenience for him. And its possible that cancelling 
his current mortgage  now could attract additional fees and penalties So, taking all those  factors  
into account, I think Tradex should pay Mr V compensation of £2,500  in total.  That sum is to 
address both Mr Vs distress and inconvenience  and any sums he might  be out of pocket as a 
result of the CCJ.
For completeness Ill add that Mr V had said that he wished  to speak with me before I reached  my 
conclusions. But I didn't think that was appropriate.  When Im looking at a complaint I will review  all 
the evidence provided by both sides. We are generally a paper based organisation, and I would 
only usually talk to either  side if I felt that there was evidence I could only collect by speaking  to the 
individual in person. I don't think thats the case here. And I didn't think it would be fair to give Mr V 
the opportunity  to put his side of the argument  to me personally without also offering Tradex the 
opportunity to do the same thing.
developments
Both Tradex and Mr V accepted my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN54349423my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As both Tradex and Mr V accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I require 
Tradex Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr V compensation of £2,500  in total to address both 
his distress and inconvenience and any amount he might be out of pocket because of the CCJ.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr V has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject  
my decision  before 15 February 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Tradex  pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr V a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5434942