K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc ignored  his request to clear  his credit  card account and it 
kept adding more charges.
background
Mr J wrote to TSB on 4 May 2018. He asked it to let him have a figure lower than the 
amount currently owed so he could pay one instalment to clear the account. He said the 
lesser amount will also compensate for the ridiculous charges. TSB didnt reply to him and 
so he came to this Service. 
TSB apologised  for the delay in responding to him. But it said if he wanted  to close his 
account he would have to pay the full balance outstanding.
Our investigator thought TSB had correctly applied charges to Mr Js account. And he 
couldnt see there was any reason why it should refund these. TSB didnt charge him for any 
interest between April and December 2018  while Mr Js complaint  was outstanding. So he 
didnt think TSB should do anything more.
Mr J wasnt happy with this and said banks had to deal with complaints in a timely and 
efficient manner. He said that in light of the delay in responding to his complaint TSB should 
consider allowing him to pay a lesser amount or even cancel the amount owed.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr J feels about  this. And in particular TSBs delay in dealing  with his 
complaint. But I cant  tell TSB how it should  deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint 
handling is not, under our rules, what is called  a regulated activity. If Mr J wants  to take his 
concerns about  TSBs complaint handling  procedures further he will need to refer his 
concerns to the Financial Conduct  Authority.
But I can look at whether TSB has treated  Mr J fairly during this time and if not what  impact  
this has had on him. And in doing that Ive come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator 
for very similar reasons.
Mr J asked TSB to reduce the amount he owed so that he could pay off his credit card and 
close his account.  TSB didnt give Mr J an answer  due to the backlog of complaints it was 
dealing with. But I cant see that any charges TSB applied on Mr Js account  before he 
complained had been applied incorrectly or unfairly  so I dont think  he shouldve had a 
reasonable expectation that TSB would allow him to pay a lesser amount to clear  his credit 
card and close the account.
Although TSB didnt  answer his request  for several  months, it didnt apply any charges to his 
account during  this time. I think that was fair and reasonable and so I cant fairly ask it to do 
anything more.
 
Ref: DRN57136542my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5713654