K820x#14complaint
Ms C is unhappy with Assicurazioni Generali SPAs decision  to decline her claim and cancel 
her policy.
background
The background to this decision  is set out in my provisional findings  a copy  of which  is 
attached to this final decision. In summary,  Ms C submitted a claim under her family  group 
insurance policy for treatment of her thymec cyst. But this was declined  by her insurer,  
Assicurazioni (or Generali  as described in its correspondence) initially because it thought 
this was a pre-existing  medical condition that hadnt  been declared. 
Assicurazioni also decided to cancel her group family policy  because  it discovered Ms C had 
suffered from a number  of other  medical-related problems it didnt know about.  It said that 
had it known the full extent of Ms Cs medical  history prior to offering  her cover it would not 
have insured her.
I found that Assicurazioni had declined her claim unfairly because  I was satisfied the thymec  
cyst wasnt pre-existing. However, I didnt think it fair to ask it to pay Ms Cs claim because  
she should never have been  offered its insurance cover  due to her undeclared previous 
medical history. And so I asked both Assicurazioni and Ms C whether there was any further  
evidence for to me to consider before reaching my final decision.  
Ms C responded disagreeing with my provisional findings for many of the same reasons as 
before. She also made some further arguments  which Ive summarised below;
Assicurazioni treated  her unfairly by not contacting her directly  after 26 December 
2017. She wasnt told about its decision  not to pay for her treatment until the day she 
was due to have the operation. Ms C suggested  Assicurazioni  should  have contacted  
her sooner to discuss this;
Assicurazioni was clear about her medical history prior to the intended  date of the 
operation. Ms C said she didnt intentionally try to conceal  her medical history stating 
that had this been her intention then she would not have shared the 2014 medical 
report with the specialist;
Assicurazioni has repeatedly looked  for ways to decline  her claim. Initially  it said the 
thymec cyst was pre-existing and then later said it was because of her undeclared 
medical history  suggesting it was perhaps looking for away  out of paying her claim 
altogether and;  
Assicurazioni unfairly cancelled the policy for her whole family leaving them in a 
vulnerable position  without insurance cover. Ms C also made representations about 
the money shes lost out on because of Assicurazionis actions, including the cost of 
the insurance policy itself. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN57005492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about what Ms C has said I still dont think  Assicurazioni should  do 
anything more in terms of this complaint. Ms C has made a number of arguments in 
response to my provision  findings, some of which Ive listed above but Im still not persuaded 
that Assicurazioni has made an error or treated her unfairly. Ill explain why.
The evidence Ive seen  suggests that Assicurazioni  didnt fully authorise the treatment Ms C 
had for the thymec cyst. It gave  authorisation for her to see a specialist for a consultation. 
The insurer  wanted  to consider what the specialist said prior to agreeing any further 
treatment. But Ms C and the specialist agreed between them the date for the intended 
surgery in January 2018. Ive not seen  any evidence that persuades  me that Assicurazioni 
had given its authorisation for this. 
The evidence suggests Assicurazioni  and Ms Cs specialist were in discussion about the 
best way forward  in terms of treatment  and so I dont find Ms Cs position here reasonable. I 
take on board she may not have  known there was a conversation going on in the 
background between the insurer and the specialist,  but the key argument here is that she 
was never  given authority to go ahead with the operation by her insurer.  She decided to do 
this under the guidance of her specialist and so I dont think  it reasonable to suggest 
Assicurazioni treated  her unfairly or mis-lead her in any way.
The insurer  was given  additional information  by Ms Cs specialist which  gave it cause for 
concern due to her extensive medical  history which it had been  unaware of until January 
2018. As soon as it received this information  it reassessed her against its underwriting 
criteria and she didnt meet it  which is why it cancelled the policy.  Ms C was part of a group 
family policy and so the group policy was cancelled. 
I should highlight  that this is usual  practice  in circumstances such  as these  because  she 
didnt have a stand-alone policy.  I also noted  Assicurazioni  returned  almost a years  worth of 
premiums which is what  Id expect  it to do. 
Ms C mentioned that she didnt intentionally  mis-lead Assicurazioni about her medical  history  
and Im not suggesting  she did either.  I think this was a careless  mistake  she made at the 
application stage  of securing her medical insurance  cover. But the key point here is that had 
she taken the time to answer the medical questionnaire carefully and correctly, then she 
would not have been offered a policy.  Assicurazioni  said this is because shes  seen a 
physician/sought medical advice too many times within the last five years. Its because of 
this that Assicurazioni  doesnt have to pay her claim. 
This wasnt the initial reason for the decline, however Ive already addressed  that in my 
provisional findings. Im satisfied Assicurazioni  updated Ms C on its position  in good time 
and when it first became  aware of her medical history.  
Ref: DRN57005493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57005494[copy of provisional  decision]
complaint
Ms C is unhappy  with Assicurazioni Generali  SpAs decision to decline her claim and cancel her 
policy.
background
Ms C had private medical insurance with Assicurazioni since July 2016.  She went for a medical  
check up in the summer of 2017  where an anomaly was detected in her chest area. This was 
monitored again in October the same year and it was discovered she had a thymec cyst. Ms C 
arranged to have treatment  in the United States  and made a claim on her insurance. But her claim 
was declined.
Ms C said her claim was declined unfairly and disputes the reasons given by Assicurazioni. She 
thought its decision  to do so was racially motivated and demonstrably anti-Semitic in nature.  Ms C 
said the insurer didnt tell her about its decision  until the day of her planned operation. She would  
like the cost of the operation covered and an apology.
Assicurazioni said it declined  cover initially because it thought the thymec cyst was a pre- existing 
condition owing to further medical  information it received from Ms Cs surgeon in the United States.  
However, it also later discovered that Ms C had suffered a number of other medical conditions which 
she failed to disclose when she initially  took the policy out. Assicurazioni said had it been given the 
full picture about Ms Cs health, it would  not have  offered her an insurance policy.
Our investigator said Assicurazioni had declined her claim unfairly.  She said there was no 
evidence to support the thymec cyst was pre-existing  and so she thought the treatment  should be 
covered. She also said that although Ms C didnt  tell it everything about her previous medical  
history this should not affect her claim.
Assicurazioni didnt agree.  It felt that Ms Cs non disclosure of her medical  history was reckless. It 
reaffirmed its position and said it would not have offered her medical insurance cover had it known 
about this.
And so its for me to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered Ms Cs policy  terms, the Consumer  Information  and Disclosure Act (CIDRA) 
2014  and industry guidance. Industry guidance (ICOBS) says that Assicurazioni  should not unfairly  
decline a claim and CIDRA, in summary, says that a consumer must  take care to answer questions 
asked by the insurer accurately.
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to that of our investigator  and Im 
planning on rejecting Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain  why.
I accept  Ms Cs arguments  about the thymec cyst not being a pre-existing medical  condition. The 
evidence Ive seen does not persuade me that she had the cyst prior to 2017.  Assicurazioni said 
that after further consideration of the medical records, in particular, some  scan images of the 
thymus where the cyst was discovered, it was able to establish the cyst was likely present at that 
time.
But Im not persuaded  by what its said here. I say that because the report doesnt mention  anything  
about this. Further,  Ive seen  a subsequent medical  report from 2017, where  the cyst was 
discovered and it said Ms C was asymptomatic  meaning she wasnt short of breath or suffering 
Ref: DRN57005495from a cough. Ms Cs testimony  was that this was never mentioned  to her before 2017 and given 
what Ive just explained, Im more persuaded by that.
I take on board that Assicurazioni may have been able to see anomalies in the scan pictures, 
but thats likely due to the skill of its medical team. The cyst wasnt picked up in
2014 and so Ms C was not to know about it until it was identified in 2017. So I think its 
unreasonable to expect her to disclose  something she knew  nothing  about.
However, I still think Assicurazioni declined her claim fairly because it discovered  shed sought 
medical advice on a number of occasions  prior to taking out the policy and didnt share this when  
asked. It wasnt until Assicurazioni was in receipt  of the 2014 medical report, in January 2018, that it 
was made aware of Ms Cs medical history. Ms C shared the report with her surgeon to help provide 
him with as much  medical information as she could. Her surgeon then shared  this with Assicurazioni 
and it made  the discovery about  the other  conditions.
It was because of the new information it discovered  that Assicurazioni decided  to withdraw cover 
for Ms C and her family altogether. Ms C has effectively downplayed these instances and 
suggested theyre not serious enough to warrant the level of response from Assicurazioni. And so 
Ive thought carefully about  this.
This policy was a family group policy and when Ms C first took out cover with Assicurazioni it asked 
her a number  of health  related questions. The questions included;
have you been examined or consulted with a physician  in the last 5 years?
Ms C answered yes to this question and she was asked to explain details about  it. She took the 
time to explain shed had two hernia operations after her pregnancies but didnt disclose  any further 
information. Ms C has since said this wasnt intentional  and that she wasnt trying to conceal her 
medical history.  But the problem here is that she had seen a physician more 
times than shed said and she didnt explain this when asked  to do so. The 2014 medical
report said shed been consulted  with a physician  on a number of occasions and had treatments 
for, or suffered with, salpingo oophorectomy, neurological tension headaches, ophthalmology,  
hypercholesterolaemia, grade ll venous insufficiency  and malleolar  edema lumbago.
Ms C experienced all of this within the five year timespan yet this was not shared with the insurer. I 
accept Ms Cs arguments  that some  of these issues were caused by her pregnancies. But the 
question asked  by Assicurazioni was clear  in that it asked her to share  the times  shed consulted  
with a physician.  And for one reason  or another this information was not forthcoming.
Where a consumer declares  a pre-existing condition, the insurer will consider the likely  risk of that 
consumer making a claim. An insurer may add exclusions for pre-existing conditions  to a policy. 
Where that happens, the insurer offers  the policy but declines to cover any costs related  to the pre-
existing conditions its made aware  of. But if the insurer  decides the risk posed by the consumer is 
too great, it can decline  to offer cover at all. In Ms Cs case,  Assicurazioni said had it known the full 
extent of her medical history as described  above,  it would  not have offered her cover because of the 
potentially high risk she posed.
Its because  of this Assicurazioni was entitled  to remove her cover and therefore decline her claim 
as Ms C should never have been granted its insurance cover  to begin with.
Ms C had complained  that the insurer hadnt let her know about  its concerns in good time.  She said it 
wasnt until the day of the operation that she found out she was no longer covered. I accept  this 
would have been stressful  for Ms C and her family, especially as shed travelled to the United  States 
for this operation. But I note Assicurazioni never authorised the treatment.  It gave authorisation for 
the consultation  with the surgeon  only. It said any further treatments would need to be authorised  by 
Ref: DRN57005496it prior to undergoing them. And so Ms C took a risk here and unfortunately it didnt work out as shed 
hoped. But I dont think it reasonable to hold Assicurazioni responsible for this.
Ms C has made other arguments about Assicurazionis decision being  racially motivated or even 
anti-Semitic, suggesting her family name may have  given  cause for it to take the action it has. But 
given what Ive just explained, I dont believe  that to be the case. All the evidence  Ive seen 
persuades me that this was a mistake made by Ms C when she took out her policy by not answering 
the health  related questions properly. And its because of that
Assicurazioni are entitled to reassess  her based on her full medical history.  It did this and 
unfortunately for Ms C she didnt meet its underwriting  criteria and so her policy  was cancelled  
and her claim declined. I dont  believe  Assicurazioni has treated her unfairly.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im planning on rejecting Ms Cs complaint. Ill 
consider any new evidence before reaching  my final decision.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5700549