K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr Gs car was stolen. Ageas settled his claim for his lost car and items  within  it. But Mr G 
wasn't happy with some  aspects of Ageas handling of his claim. He brought  his complaint 
about that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Ageas had done anything  wrong.  Mr G didn't 
agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr G has made  a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points.
valuation
Mr G thinks that Ageas  undervalued his car when it settled his claim. Hes pointed  out that 
he had added some  extra features to it that the manufacturer doesn't offer, which he 
believes increased the cars value. 
I should explain that it's not my role to value cars but Ill look to see that an insurers reached  
its valuation reasonably. Our usual approach to complaints about valuation  is to look at the 
relevant trade guides for valuing  second-hand vehicles. We find these reliable as theyre 
based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And I find them more persuasive  than 
figures cars are advertised for, as those are often inflated to allow  for negotiation  and don't  
reflect the actual  sale price. 
In this case I can see that Ageas valuation of Mr Gs car was in line with the trade guides 
valuation of a car of that age, model and specification in showroom condition. Mr G thinks 
that his car was worth more because of the extras hes added to it, which  the trade guides 
dont take into account. But its worthwhile noting that not all extras  or modifications  will add 
value to a car, and some will actually  result in a cars value going down Thats because  
some potential buyers will prefer  cars to be to the manufacturers original specifications.  And 
I haven't seen  any evidence,  beyond Mr Gs comments, that the extras he added to the car 
increased its value. So Im satisfied that Ageas valuation  of Mr Gs car was reasonable.
loss of no claims discount (NCD)
Mr G is unhappy that, although the theft wasn't his fault, the claim resulting from it will affect  
his NCD entitlement.  I can understand how frustrating Mr G must find it that - through  no 
fault of his own and as a victim of a crime - the claim for the theft of his car has affected his 
NCD and the premiums hell be charged  in the future. But that doesn't mean Ageas has 
done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN58679262It might help if I explain that an NCD entitlement is a no claims discount, not a no blame  
discount. And like most insurance policies Mr Gs policy says that his entitlement to NCD is 
based on him not making a claim. But Mr G did make a claim.  And given that this was a theft 
claim, and the thief wasn't caught,  Ageas don't have any prospect of recovering  its outlay   
what it paid to settle the claim - from anyone else. And in those circumstances, regardless 
that Mr G wasn't at fault for the claim,  I think  its reasonable  that Ageas  reflects  Mr Gs claim 
against his NCD  entitlement.
Ageas service when  looking  into his claim  
Mr G isn't happy with the manner in which Ageas spoke to him when looking into his claim. 
In particular that it probed him and challenged  the logic of some of his actions. But its usual 
for insurers to want to make sure that a claim happened as the policyholder said it did. And 
insurers often do so by interviewing a policyholder and that process  may include asking 
probing or challenging questions, particularly if the insurer thinks  there  are any anomalies 
with the claim. And by doing that reasonably insurers  can be satisfied  that they are only 
paying claims that they should be. I understand thats what happened in this case. And 
Ageas was clearly  satisfied with Mr G's answers  to its questions because  it went on to pay 
the claim.  So while I can understand that Mr G might  have found that process 
uncomfortable, I don't think  that means that Ageas did anything  wrong.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5867926