K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about problems that she says have been caused by faulty installation of a 
new central heating  system. She brings her complaint about British Gas Insurance  Limited 
(BGI).
background
In August  2014  Mrs F had a new central  heating system installed by British Gas. The system 
was covered by an insurance policy provided  by BGI.
Mrs F has been  very unhappy with the system. I think its fair to say that her main concerns 
have been about the quality of the installation. Shes  suffered a number of leaks  and has 
had to call out engineers  to rectify  problems  on numerous occasions. Shed like the plastic 
pipework and joints to be replaced.
An ombudsman issued  a decision  earlier this year setting out which parts  of the complaint 
we could look at and which parts were outside  our powers.
The ombudsman explained that we couldnt look at anything to do with the initial installation 
by British Gas. But that we could look at the repair work to the system which BGI carried  out 
under the insurance contract. That included work done during the first year when the system 
was covered by insurance supplied by BGI in place of a warranty.
Both Mrs F and BGI accepted the decision. Our investigator then looked at everything again 
Mrs F had most recently complained to BGI in early 2018. Thered been another  leak and 
shed lost confidence in the system  and wanted  reassurance that it had been fitted properly.  
A representative from BGI visited Mrs F and checked the system for her. In recognition of 
the issues shed  had and the number of call-outs  it offered Mrs F free insurance cover for a 
year. 
That was in addition  to £180  compensation which it had paid Mrs F in January  2015  to 
include delays and multiple visits.
Mrs F was unhappy with BGIs response and she brought her complaint to us. She said she 
was thinking of asking another engineer to replace the plastic  pipework and fittings with 
copper and brass. She said that would be expensive and inconvenient and she thought  BGI 
should contribute towards the cost. She also explained  how stressful  and frustrating the 
whole experience had been  and how upset shed been.
Our investigator set out his view in a letter of 17 May 2019.  He said he thought what  BGI had 
done to put things right was fair and reasonable given the areas  of complaint we could look 
at. He didnt think  it needed to do more.
The matter  has now been passed to me to issue a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52579002First of all I should say that Ive only summarised what  I think  are the remaining and main 
points of the complaint. I know that Mrs F raised  a number of other concerns but, as set out 
in the investigators  letter,  these seem  to have been  resolved satisfactorily.
It remains for me to consider whether BGI has done  enough to compensate Mrs F for the 
problems shes had. But I can only look at the things which BGI is responsible for.
Ive thought about this carefully,  particularly  the amount of compensation Mrs F has 
received. 
Mrs F has had a lot of trouble with her central  heating system and I can understand why 
shes lost confidence  in it. 
Mrs F thinks the original installation was of very poor quality.  And given the number of call 
outs shes had to make and the leaks shes suffered I can understand why shed like to 
change the plastic  pipes and joints. But for the reasons explained in the earlier decision we 
cant look at whether British Gas should  have used a different sort of pipe or any mistakes it 
may have  made when  initially fitting the radiators. So I cant fairly ask BGI to pay for Mrs F to 
have the pipes replaced or to make  a contribution towards that.
But I can look at the work  BGI did in the first year, and since  then, to rectify problems as they 
arose. 
BGI has agreed that Mrs F had a lot of problems following the installation and it had to make  
numerous visits to fix things. Mrs F complained about that towards  the end of 2014 and in 
early 2015  BGI paid compensation  of £180.  Mrs F didnt  pursue her complaint further at the 
time.
Ive looked at whats happened since then.  BGI has supplied a record of all its visits and I 
can see that Mrs F has had to make further claims under the policy,  and that she had a leak 
in 2017 and another in 2018. Thats when she complained again.
The claims were  covered by the insurance  policy and repairs were  made  at no further cost to 
Mrs F. So, as the investigator  said, the insurance policy  did what it was intended  to do. The 
leaks appear to have been  individual  occurrences albeit they may have been related to the 
original type of installation. In other  words they dont seem  to have been caused  by faulty 
work done under the insurance contract.
When Mrs F complained in 2018 BGI sent a representative and an engineer  to visit her. The 
engineer checked that the boiler, pipes and radiators were then leak-free. And, in recognition 
of the problems shed had, BGI provided Mrs F with free insurance cover for a year,  which 
would otherwise have cost her around £300.
Given that BGI it isnt responsible for the initial installation or the type of pipes used I think  
what it has done is fair. In all the circumstances and given the areas of complaint Im looking 
at I dont think BGI needs to do more.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint in the sense that I think British Gas Insurance  Limited  has 
offered fair compensation. I dont require it to do more.
Ref: DRN52579003Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5257900