K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc has only refunded  £5,000 of his money when he 
disputed a number  of transactions totalling £6,000. Hed like it to refund the other £1,000.
background
Mr R told Barclays  that 12 transactions made using his card in June 2018, totalling £6,000, 
werent made or authorised by him. He thought  they had been  made  fraudulently. 
Barclays initially provided Mr R with a temporary  credit of £5,000. It wasnt  able to credit  the 
remaining £1,000  because the two payments  were,  at that time, still showing as pending. It 
raised a claim under  the VISA chargeback scheme  for 10 payments (totalling  £5,000). After 
investigating Barclays decided not to refund the other £1,000 because it noticed  that Mr R 
had previous dealings with the merchant concerned.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that the 
payments were made  fraudulently. All the payments went through  at a time when  Mr R had 
called Barclays to say that he was having problems making a payment to the merchant in 
question. He told Barclays that he had attempted the payment multiple times. She thought 
the remaining  £1,000 was in Mr Rs account with the merchant and so it was still available  to 
him.
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that he still hadnt received the money and the 
merchant wouldnt answer his calls or emails.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigator  for broadly  the reasons given.
The 12 transactions of £500 each that Mr R disputes  were all made on the same day and 
within half an hour. At the time Mr R called Barclays to say that he was trying to make  a 
£500 payment  to his account  with the merchant concerned but it wasnt  working. Barclays 
suggested he tried again.  Mr R called Barclays a second time to tell it that he was still 
experiencing the same problem. In this call he said he had tried to put the transaction  
through a number of times.
Like the investigator, I think this was a system issue. I consider it likely that Mr R was trying 
to make the payment but it wasnt  appearing straight  away into his account with the online 
merchant. So he attempted to make the payment again a number  of times. I say this 
because Mr R:
already had an account with this online merchant and had made other recent  undisputed 
payments to it
told Barclays at the time that he was trying to make payments of £500  and had 
attempted to do this a number of times. He also said that the online merchant had 
confirmed it had received all 12 payments of £500 each
also told this service  that he tried to make a payment  of £1,000  to his online account with 
this merchant.
Ref: DRN55838172Mr R told Barclays  that the payments had been  made fraudulently so it agreed to submit a 
chargeback claim under  the VISA card scheme rules to try to recover the money. It refunded  
10 of the payments totalling £5,000 to Mr Rs account whilst it submitted the claim. It then 
investigated the other two payments that Mr R disputed. As Mr R told the bank that he did 
authorise the payments Barclays decided that it didnt  have  any grounds on which  to raise 
another claim.
After taking everything into account, I cant conclude that Barclays  made a mistake  by not 
raising a chargeback claim  for the remaining two transactions.  I think its more likely than not 
that the £1,000 remained  in Mr Rs online account  with the merchant.  Although Mr R says 
that he hasnt  received  the money  back from the merchant this isnt something that this 
service can investigate. It would be up to Mr R to raise the matter with the online merchant 
directly.
I realise Mr R will be disappointed with my decision here, as I know  he has very strong 
feelings about this, but for the reasons Ive explained, I cant  fairly ask Barclays  to refund 
these two transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5583817