K821x#15complaint
Mr N says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (UBF LLP) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 6 loans UBF LLP provided  to Mr N between December 2014 and 
April 2015. Mr Ns borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 05/12/2014 16/12/2014 1 £100.00 £134.95
2 19/12/2014 16/01/2015 1 £125.00 £168.69
3 20/01/2015 16/02/2015 1 £75.00 £92.40
4 25/02/2015 14/03/2015 1 £225.00 £257.40
5 23/03/2015 16/04/2015 1 £225.00 £270.00
6 20/04/2015 Outstanding  
and sold on3 £320.00 £157.51
Mr N complained that the loans had been made irresponsibly to him. UBF LLP upheld loans 
4 and 5 and made an offer to settle  the loans in line with our approach.
Our adjudicator also partially upheld Mr Ns complaint and thought loan 6 shouldnt have 
been given. UBF LLP disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for loan 6 to be 
looked at again. 
Neither party made any comments about  loans 1 to 3 which were rejected. In this decision, I 
wont need to look at loans 1 to 3 again.  So I will be looking at loan 6 - although  I will also 
look at all of the loans and the full borrowing history to assess the case fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
UBF LLP needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF LLP should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN51827542the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that UBF LLP was required to establish  
whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 6 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr N was not managing his money well. I say this because the loan amounts he took 
out mostly  increased  by loan 6 which shows a reliance on short  term lending.  A 
proportionate check means UBF LLP would have realised Mr N was not engaged  in short 
term lending to deal with an unexpected cash-flow.  It was more likely he had longer term 
financial problems. Also, our adjudicator noted  that having paid monthly  repayments  on all 
the outstanding 6 loans,  Mr N was left with £57 for the month.  In my view, I think UBF LLP 
should have realised loan 6 was unaffordable for Mr N. So I dont think loan 6 should have 
been given to Mr N.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 6 and UBF LLP should put things right.  For 
the sake of completeness  and clarity,  I will refer to all of the upheld loans 4, 5 and 6 in the 
paragraph below.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP shouldnt  have  given Mr N loans  4, 5 and 6.
If Uncle Buck Finance  LLP has sold the outstanding  debts, it should buy these back  if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Uncle Buck  Finance LLP is not able to buy 
the debts back  then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined 
below.
Ref: DRN51827543A)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr N towards  interest, fees and charges 
on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP has already refunded.
B)Calculate 8% per year simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr N which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr N originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made  by Mr N as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr N having  made  overpayments  then 
Uncle Buck Finance  LLP should refund these overpayments with 8% per year simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loans and any principal sum which  
Uncle Buck Finance  LLP has already written-off. If this results in a surplus  then the surplus 
should be paid to Mr N. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with Mr N. Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP shouldnt  pursue outstanding balances made up of the principal it has already 
written-off.
E)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to loans  4, 5 and 
6 or work with the new debt owner to achieve  this.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck Finance LLP to deduct tax from this interest. 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax has been 
deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ns complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right for Mr N as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5182754