K821x#15complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D took out a store card in April 2004. The policy was taken  out during a telephone call 
some months later.
The policy covered Mrs D if she was too ill to work or had an accident or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint comes to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint  because  I dont  think she wouldve bought  the 
policy if she had been given clearer information about its cost and benefits.
FICL needed to make sure it gave Mrs D clear enough information about the policy  so she 
could decide for herself  if she should  take it out. 
Theres no call recording and I cant be sure what was said during the call. The store  card 
application she filled in shows  that the PPI cost £1.50 per £100  of the outstanding balance  
and Mrs D may have been told this. But I dont think its very likely that the policys true cost 
and benefits were explained  clearly  enough  to allow Mrs D to work out whether PPI offered 
her any useful benefit it was worthwhile  for her to buy. For example, I dont know  if FICL 
explained to Mrs D how interest might be added on or if shed have to continue to pay the 
premiums during a claim.
Mrs D told us she had other means  she couldve relied on if she wasnt able to work.  In 
particular, when Mrs D remembered where she was working when she took out the PPI, she 
told us that her employer  wouldve paid her at least 6 months full sick pay. 
Ive taken into account that Santander  says that it doesnt think  it is plausible  that Mrs D 
wouldve had 6 months of cover, bearing in mind how long shed been in that job. But I dont  
agree. Looking at her job role and how long shed  been  working in that job, I think it is 
plausible that her employer paid at least 6 months full sick pay if shed been unable  to work 
as a result  of illness or a disability. And I think this is borne out by the fact that, following an 
injury, Mrs D told us that shed been  paid sick pay for 9 months  while she was off work.
This means  that the policy  offered her only limited  value given the other  means she couldve 
relied on. 
Ref: DRN56861032On balance, based on all the information  Ive seen, I dont think  Mrs D wouldve bought the 
policy if FICL had given her clear  enough information about the cost and benefits  to be able 
to decide if it was good value for her. So, I think Mrs D has lost out because  of what FICL  did 
wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs D would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs D would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs D would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs D 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs D 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs D what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs D that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN56861033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5686103