K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  stopped paying his income  protection  
claim.
background
Mr M was a member of his previous  employers group income protection policy. The policy  
paid a proportion  of his income in the event he was incapacitated and unable to work. 
In November 2016, Mr M was signed  off work due to depression and anxiety. Unfortunately,  
his wife received  a terminal  cancer  diagnosis earlier in the year and Mr M reported this as 
being the reason for his symptoms. He remained off work for longer than the deferred 
period, so he made a claim under the policy for his loss of earnings. 
Following receipt of an independent medical report,  Aviva accepted the claim and agreed to 
complete a review  in 6 to 12 months time.  Mr M was also diagnosed with prostate cancer in 
around February 2018. At the time Mr M referred  his complaint to our service his medical 
team were  monitoring this condition  and no treatment was being  given.
In April 2018, Mr M visited a consultant and an independent medical review was carried out. 
The consultant confirmed his findings  in a report dated 5 June 2018.  The consultant 
explained that Mr M was ready for a phased return to work. Later that month Aviva  told 
Mr Ms previous employer that they would stop paying the claim as the consultants findings 
meant Mr M was no longer incapacitated.  
Mr M appealed Avivas decision and asked for his claim payments to be restored. To support 
his position, he provided a letter from his GP which was written in September 2018, an 
occupational health (OH) report from November 2018 and a psychiatric report  which was 
completed in December 2018.  
Avivas medical team reviewed the additional evidence and it didnt change  their thoughts 
about the outcome of the claim. In reaching this decision, Aviva highlighted the amount of 
time that had passed, the self-reporting nature of the GP letter, and the lack of medical 
history presented to the OH adviser  or psychiatric  nurse before they reached their findings. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Although he empathised  with Mr Ms difficult 
circumstances, he thought Aviva had enough medical evidence to justify withdrawing cover 
when they did. He also thought Aviva considered the additional evidence  fairly and their 
reasons for maintaining their initial decision  were  valid.
Aviva accepted the investigators opinion, but Mr M didnt. He said he hadnt been treated 
fairly and the additional reports show that he was never fit for work. He also explained that 
his employment  contract  had since  been terminated  because he remains unwell.
Mr M has enquired about raising a new claim based  on his circumstances  before  his 
employment ended. Hes also provided a further OH report  from March  2019. However, any 
new claim would need to be raised by Mr Ms previous employer in the first instance - so I 
wont address that here.
As Mr M doesnt agree  with out investigators  findings, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
Ref: DRN50849002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficult time Mr M and his family has gone through over the last 
few years.  I can understand why it has been  such a challenging time for them  as a family. 
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed that Im not upholding his complaint, but Ill explain the 
reasons why. 
how was Aviva required to consider the claim? 
Under the relevant rules  and appropriate  industry  guidelines, Aviva was required to consider
Mr Ms claim  promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
The policy terms define incapacity as meaning:
The members inability  to perform on a full or part time basis  the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury.
Job role is defined as: 
A members job role with the policyholder  at the time incapacity starts
The material  and substantial duties are defined as:
The material  and substantial duties that:  are normally required to perform  the job 
role for the policyholder; and perform a significant  and integral part of the 
performance of the job role for the policyholder; and cannot reasonably be omitted 
or modified by the member or the policyholder . Duties do not include the journey to 
and from work.
The policy also explains  that Aviva  can stop paying a claim once  a member is no longer 
incapacitated. This means Aviva was able to stop paying Mr Ms claim once they were 
satisfied his illness was no longer  preventing him from doing his job.
did Aviva  withdraw cover  unreasonably?
I have reviewed the independent medical report that was completed  in June 2018. I note that 
before completing  the report, the consultant was provided with copies of Mr Ms medical 
history and the previous independent  medical  report that was completed in 2017. He also 
met with Mr M, so he was able to physically review his symptoms. In the report,  the 
consultant acknowledged the difficult circumstances Mr M was facing but also said he didnt 
appear to be clinically  depressed.  
The report  says as follows:
Mr M developed depression in 2016 after his wife was diagnosed
with metastatic breast cancer. He still has some  residual  symptoms including
lack of motivation  but generally appears to live a relatively normal  life and
does assist his wife and today did not appear  to be clinically  depressed.
Ref: DRN50849003The consultant also made the following recommendation: 
I am of the opinion  that he could now embark on a phased return  to
work, initially working 16 hours a week and to gradually increase his hours  to
full time alter 6 to 8 weeks.
As this report was completed  by a suitably qualified  independent medical expert, I dont think 
Aviva acted unreasonably  by relying  on the recommendations within  it. This also means I 
dont think Aviva acted unfairly  by concluding  Mr M was no longer incapacitated and 
withdrawing cover for the claim.
did Aviva  consider the additional medical evidence fairly? 
Ive reviewed the additional evidence  Mr M provided as part of his appeal. Having done so, I 
dont think Aviva acted unfairly  by concluding  it didnt change  their decision. 
Firstly, I note the OH report  was completed  in November  2018, and this was several months 
after the independent report.  There was also a delay in sending the GPs letter as this wasnt 
provided until September 2018. Finally, the report from Mr Ms psychiatric nurse wasnt 
completed until December  2018. 
This means  Mr Ms additional evidence wasnt from the time that Aviva stopped the claim 
and his circumstances may have  changed. Mr M has explained the reason  for the delay, but 
I think Aviva  has made a fair point about  the impact of the delay on the strength of this 
evidence. 
Ive also taken into account the information  the OH adviser and psychiatric nurse  had access 
to when reaching their findings. Specifically, unlike the consultant,  they didnt have access  to 
Mr Ms full medical history  or the previous independent report.  Based on the information Ive 
seen the consultant was the most suitably qualified medical expert  and had access  to 
relevant information  about Mr Ms medical history. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to place more weight on the consultants report in this case. 
Ive also reviewed Mr Ms GPs letter and can see that it refers to Mr M being unhappy with 
the consultants  findings. However, I dont think it is unreasonable for Aviva  to conclude that 
this letter  doesnt  provide  adequate medical grounds  for disputing the contents of the 
independent report.
I can also see that the additional evidence  was referred to Avivas medical team  for review.  
This is what  Ive expect Aviva to do. The further  evidence didnt change their view of the 
claim and Aviva has explained the reasons  for this. So, Im satisfied that Aviva took 
reasonable steps to assess the additional evidence they were  provided with. 
Whilst I empathise with Mr Ms situation,  I dont  think Aviva acted unreasonably by 
withdrawing cover or refusing to change their decision because of the additional evidence.  
Aviva reached their decision based on the findings  of an independent  medical expert. And I 
dont think there are grounds  for saying  this report should be disregarded by Aviva,  bearing 
in mind the medical evidence Ive seen. 
Ref: DRN50849004my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084900