K821x#15complaint
Mrs W, as widow  of Mr W and executrix  of his estate, says TenetConnect Limited were 
responsible for delays  which  meant  her late husbands occupational pension scheme (OPS) 
benefits werent transferred into a personal pension, resulting in financial loss.
background 
the parties involved in this case
Before proceeding,  I thought it would be helpful to set out some of what we know  about the 
parties involved in transactions  leading to this complaint.
The Morrison Facilities  Pension Scheme (MFPS) was the occupational pension  scheme  
(OPS) which Mr W belonged to as a deferred  benefits member.
Clydevalley Financial Solutions Limited (CFSL) conducted some of the early work  for Mr W, 
and it introduced him to another adviser firm specialising  in OPS transfers.
GMB Portfolio Services  Limited (GMB), was the specialist adviser  for OPS transfers which  
recommended that Mr W should move  his benefits into a personal pension plan.
TenetConnect Limited (TenetConnect),  is the firm against which  the complaint is brought. 
Thats because GMB was its appointed representative (AR) and so its responsible for GMBs 
acts and omissions.
Capita Employee  Benefits  (Capita)  provided actuarial expertise and the first two cash  
equivalent transfer value (CETV)  reports  detailing what  Mr Ws benefits with MFPS would  be 
worth on transfer to another scheme. It worked on behalf of his OPS  provider and trustees.
Punter Southall (PS), replaced  Capita  around  April 2015. It provided equivalent services and 
the third of the CETV  reports that were produced for Mr W.
PS Administration Limited (PSAL), delivered the pension administration  for MFPS.
Royal London was the firm recommended to Mr W as the destination for his pension fund.
There were eight entities  and even more individuals  who were involved to a greater or lesser 
extent in handling Mr Ws pension arrangements  and interests. Given  the complexity of the 
relationships, the circumstances of each business and the occasionally imperfect 
interactions between  them,  its easy to see the potential for things to go awry. 
That said,  the way the principal businesses,  including  TenetConnect and Mr Ws ceding 
scheme, choose to do business using agents  is a matter for them. But clearly,  they are 
ultimately responsible  for the acts and omissions of those entities when acting on their 
behalf. Mr W would reasonably have expected to receive an efficient and effective service.
TenetConnect asked  the adjudicator not to overlook the responsibility of other  parties for 
what happened to Mr W. For example, it says businesses working on behalf  of the ceding 
scheme caused significant interruption in the process.  Essentially,  it feels  that its unfair  it 
should be solely accountable for whats happened.
Ref: DRN54178182What TenetConnect  says in relation to the acts and omissions of other  firms and individuals, 
including the extent and impact of these and any resulting liabilities it incurs as a result,  may 
or may not be the case. But Im not considering  a complaint against  those  parties here. 
Indeed, I dont have the power to review matters concerning certain  businesses  where  these 
dont come within the ambit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
TenetConnect may of course decide  to pursue other parties  for any losses which  it believes 
it incurred flowing from this case, where  it feels others are responsible to some degree  for 
such costs arising. Thats  a matter for it to decide.  And in this regard, insofar as Mrs W and 
her husbands  estate seek redress from any other party, including those covered by The 
Pensions Ombudsman regime, they will need to cooperate with TenetConnect. Theres  no 
entitlement to receive compensation twice for the same matter.
Mrs W, as widow  of Mr W and executrix  of his estate, has brought  this complaint against  
TenetConnect and thats what I need  to consider  here.
So, what  happened?
Mr W was a member  of the MFPS. He joined his then employers pension scheme in 2001.  
He left the MFPS in September  2010  when all his benefits were  preserved and deferred until 
his retirement. The scheme  had a normal retirement age of 65. It was possible to access 
benefits earlier than this, but then they wouldve been reduced according to scheme  rules.
Mr W was considering transferring his OPS benefits  into a personal pension  in 2013. He 
received a CETV report for his fund in August that year. Much  of this initial work was 
conducted by CFSL. Later it introduced  Mr W to GMB,  which was an AR of TenetConnect. 
GMB was able to provide  Mr W with the necessary specialist advice about OPS  transfers.  It 
met him for the first time in September 2014.  With much of the groundwork already done  by 
CFSL, matters initially proceeded at pace. For example, by 10 October GMB had met with 
Mr W twice. Information  about his circumstances and objectives  were known, his attitude to 
risk had been assessed and hed been  provided  with pension illustrations. A suitability  report  
dated 15 October was drafted.
One of Mr Ws objectives was to access tax-free  cash (TFC).  This was so he could pay 
down his outstanding mortgage  of £85,000 and reduce his household outgoings. He was 
unemployed and was finding it difficult to get back into the workplace, so he saw accessing  
his pension benefits early as helping  to manage his situation. This included putting in place 
an income drawdown arrangement for him to initially take £10,000 a year, tax efficiently. 
Mr W wanted flexibility in his pension  arrangements  to vary both his income  and the way the 
death benefits were  distributed as his personal circumstances changed. He wanted the 
ability to leave his residual funds invested to achieve potential future investment growth.
Unfortunately, despite GMBs engagement  from September 2014, Mr Ws acceptance of the 
recommendations it made, including to transfer his pension benefits to a personal pension  
with Royal  London,  the transaction was never  given effect. Very sadly he passed away on 
19 June 2015.  10 months  on from GMBs engagement, there  were  still issues  with some of 
the transfer paperwork.
Ref: DRN54178183Mrs W had a number of concerns about what happened. She identified delays in the 
submission of the transfer paperwork  and errors  in that documentation, which she said 
meant Mr Ws pension  benefits werent  transferred. Because the death benefits under the 
OPS and the personal pension Mr W wanted to transfer to were significantly different, she 
says shes suffered a significant financial loss.
TenetConnect said that it hadnt received all of the required information from the ceding 
scheme in good  time, therefore given  the work required  it couldnt have processed the 
transfer by the CETV deadline date.  Further, it said parties associated  with the ceding 
scheme caused delays  due to the switch  in actuaries, so others should also be held 
accountable for the delay.
The adjudicator investigated the complaint  and felt it should be upheld. He thought  thered 
been long delays by TenetConnect and its AR which were telling in key deadlines being 
missed. TenetConnect  disagreed and so Mrs Ws complaint  has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision last month. Neither party  had any new evidence  or 
arguments for me to consider and so I see no reason  to change my initial conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why.
My starting point is to consider the fundamental underpinning of the regulations that all firms  
like TenetConnect must adhere to. The FCA Handbook contains eleven  Principles  for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
I think of particular relevance in this case  are:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
The Principles are relevant and form part of the operating environment that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like TenetConnect. As such, I need to have regard to them  
in deciding this case.
The business agreement  between TenetConnect and GMB was such that the former would 
review key elements  of the work undertaken by the later to gain assurance, prior to giving its 
approval for things to move forward. 
On 15 October 2014 GMB submitted documentation for review  on Mr Ws transfer.  It had 
completed a fact-find, risk and retirement options questionnaires, illustrations and quotations 
had been provided and a suitability report was drafted.  On 29 October 2014 TenetConnect 
provided feedback  to GMB requiring  further work.
Ref: DRN54178184Amongst other matters, TenetConnect explained  to GMB that Mr Ws CETV report  from 
2013 had long expired.  A new analysis  of his OPS fund was required but it wasnt  able to 
confirm when this was initiated.  So, I think its fair to conclude that deficiencies identified  by 
TenetConnect in the approach of its AR impacted  the transfer timetable early on.
Capita provided  a new report with analysis undertaken at 25 November 2014. The report  
wasnt sent to CFSL until 9 December 2014. The CETV provided had the usual three-month 
calculation expiry date  so 25 February  2015. Id observe theres another  pair of hands in 
the process here, with CFSL in between  GMB and Capita. This is likely to have had a further 
detrimental impact on the timetable as information  was passed between  parties.
After receipt of the new CETV, CFSL  sought  further information from Capita about  the effect 
of Mr W taking early  retirement on his MFPS benefits and the operation of the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension. TenetConnect wasnt able to tell us when this request was made.
Capita responded with the additional information CFSL requested on 7 January 2015. Given  
this related to a couple of narrow  matters,  GMB shouldve already had the bulk of the 
transfer pack ready. At this point there were seven weeks left before the CETV expiry date.
GMB issued Mr Ws suitability report on 15 January 2015, presumably with TenetConnects 
approval. Mr W was invited to consider its recommendations and to complete and return  the 
Royal London drawdown pension application and MFPS scheme  transfer forms which he 
did.
It wasnt until 21 January 2015 GMB re-submitted Mr Ws transfer request documentation to 
TenetConnect for approval. Unfortunately, there was further to and fro between  the firms 
with more re-working of the ARs  work required until TenetConnect finally gave pre- approval  
of the transfer  request on 6 March  2015.  But by this time the second CETV report  deadline  
of 25 February 2015 had passed.
A third CETV was requested. But this process  wasnt straight-forward either. The letter of 
authority Mr W had provided for CFSL to deal with matters on his behalf had expired and 
PSAL required his renewed  authority. Subsequently the actuarial  services used by MFPS 
were transferred to a different  business  - PS. When in place  it appears  to have undertaken a 
review of the basis for providing CETVs. So, a new report didnt materialise until 10 June 
2015.
Although Mr W signed the necessary paperwork on 16 June 2015, very sadly  he passed  
away on 19 June 2015, the same day the paperwork was received  by PSAL. I can see that 
Royal London approved the transfer.  But even at this time the ceding  scheme  administrator  
contacted GMB stating the transfer forms it had received contained inconsistent information 
and so it couldnt process the transfer.
Transferring OPS benefits can be a complex  process. Each individual pension  plan has its 
own characteristics, protections, guarantees and penalties. Great care must be taken to 
ensure that the right advice  procedures  and regulations are adhered to. There are lots of 
moving parts. And we know that there  were  several  entities involved here.
Ref: DRN54178185In normal circumstances,  its clear  to me that even with these problems,  ultimately the 
transfer of Mr Ws OPS  benefits to the Royal London personal  pension plan wouldve gone 
ahead. Its possible  a complaint mayve arisen later about delays. The focus then wouldve 
been on the impact  of the delay and about which was the right CETV to form the basis  of the 
personal pension  arrangements.
But we know  the circumstances here were  not usual. Mr W passed away  while  his pension 
arrangements were being sorted out. The failings in the process have had a particular and 
significant impact on Mrs W because of the way his death benefits were structured under his 
OPS and the way hed chosen for things to work under the Royal  London personal pension  
hed selected.
TenetConnect and its AR were in the lead advising on and making arrangements  for the 
transfer of Mr Ws OPS  fund into the Royal London plan. They had sufficient control of the 
process between September 2014 and February  2015 for this matter  to have been finalised 
prior to Mr Ws passing. And but for the delays they were responsible for, I think  it wouldve 
been.
GMB first sort pre-approval from TenetConnect for the transfer of Mr Ws OPS on 15 
October 2014. That wasnt secured until 6 March 2015. TenetConnect had required  at least 
three reworks of the transfer  pack by its AR over a 20-week period. An updated CETV was 
issued by agents of the ceding scheme  on 9 December 2014,  between this and the expiry 
date of that report there were still 11 weeks to conclude matters.
Im aware there were other  parties involved which had significant  roles to play in the transfer 
of Mr Ws OPS benefits to a new personal  pension plan. But as one of the principals in this 
transaction, TenetConnect chose to use GMB as an AR and wouldve or shouldve  been 
aware of CFSLs role. 
TenetConnect was holding  the ring. Its AR was the expert in arranging  transfers.  It knew  the 
importance of deadlines being  worked  towards. And Ive not seen anything that makes me 
think Mr Ws situation was particularly unique  or complex.
Ive not seen enough to suggest that TenetConnect or its AR were  exercising sufficient 
control or progressing matters effectively. Had they done so, I think  its more likely than not 
the 25 February 2015 deadline for transfer of Mr Ws OPS benefits couldve been met. 
Even if I gave TenetConnect the benefit  of the doubt here, if it looked as though the CETV 
would expire before  the process had completed, its agent shouldve been proactive in 
getting an updated valuation lined up in good time so matters could proceed.  
GMB couldve started this process in early February 2015, instead  it didnt request a new 
valuation until 14 April 2015. It lost at least another 8 weeks here in giving effect to Mr Ws 
wishes. It wasnt exercising its duty of care to him, which  in the sad circumstances of this 
case led to substantial detriment to Mrs W.
putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs W and Mr Ws estate, as 
appropriate, as close as possible to the position they wouldve been in had delays not 
occurred.
Ref: DRN54178186Mr Ws income drawdown personal  pension arrangement  with Royal  London shouldve  been 
in place. And Ive assumed a notional  transfer date of 14 April 2015, around 7 months  from 
when GMB was engaged, was the latest  by when this shouldve been  achieved given what  
needed to be done in the circumstances of this case.
Mrs W has begun to receive death  benefits from her husbands OPS, effective from 19 June  
2015. These will be ongoing and cant be cancelled. So, shes likely  to have incurred a past 
financial loss and potential future  financial loss. The aim is to provide redress  for this. 
So, TenetConnect Limited should  work out any compensation due drawing on the following 
framework. 
Past loss/gain prior to Mr Ws passing 
A1. TenetConnect may use the CETV value that expired on 25th February 2015, or obtain  a 
notional value that wouldve applied at, lets say 14 April 2015.  It should assume  the value 
from either wouldve  transferred into the personal  pension income  drawdown  plan with Royal  
London that Mr W had agreed to, on the notional transfer date.  
If theres any difficulty in working with the assumption of the transfer of Mr Ws pension pot 
into the Royal London fund hed selected,  then TenetConnect  can use the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index - prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index - as Im satisfied  its a reasonable proxy for the type of return  that 
couldve been achieved  if Mr Ws pension had been  moved to the fund of his choice.
A2. Mr W wanted to take TFC of £85,000. TenetConnect should assume he wouldve taken 
this immediately at the notional transfer  date.
A3. I understand that at the time Mr Ws intention  was to use his TFC to clear his mortgage.  
This may subsequently have happened  in part or fully following his passing. So, rather than 
over complicating matters, its appropriate  that TenetConnect  adds 8% simple interest on the 
TFC from that notional  date of transfer  until it settles, to compensate for Mr W and his wife 
not having use of this money from when they shouldve.
A4. Mr Ws intention  was to initially drawdown  gross income of £10k per annum, in even 
monthly instalments,  in arrears. So TenetConnect needs to make appropriate pro-rata  
payments between 14 April and 19 June 2015.  Payment  should be net of income tax due, 
although it appears Mr W may not have breached his personal allowance at that time.
A5. TenetConnect should add 8% simple interest to this drawdown income, from the date it 
was due for payment until it settles. 
Past loss/gain after Mr Ws passing
B1. For the purposes of this redress, Ive assumed Mrs W wouldve continued to draw the 
same level of income from her husbands pension pot after he passed  - £10k per annum, in 
even monthly instalments,  in arrears. So TenetConnect needs to make appropriate pro-rata  
payments between 20 June 2015 and the date of settlement. Payment wouldnt be taxable. 
B2. TenetConnect should add 8% simple interest to this drawdown income, from the date it 
was due for payment until it settles. 
Ref: DRN54178187TenetConnect can then make an adjustment for the death benefits received by Mrs W from 
her husbands  OPS. It will want  to confirm these payments,  but they appear to have provided  
for the following:
B3. A lump sum death benefit payment to Mrs W, I understand  equating to Mr Ws pension 
contributions in service.  It can add 8% simple interest to this sum from the date it was paid 
until settlement  providing the same treatment  for both sides of the equation.
B4. Mrs W may have  received 3 monthly payments equivalent to her husbands  final monthly 
salary when he left the service of his former employer. For fairness, it can add 8% simple  
interest to these sums from the date they were paid until settlement.
B5. After  the payments  at B4, I understand Mr Ws OPS wouldve provided a pension for Mrs 
W that was set at 50% of what wouldve been  payable to him, monthly in arears and with 
some annual adjustment for inflation,  for the remainder of her life. TenetConnect can include 
payments made from when they began until the date of settlement. Again, for fairness,  it can 
add 8% simple interest to these sums from the date they were paid until settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid from the sum of the relevant calculations at 
A and B. If TenetConnect deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs W how 
much has been taken off. It should  give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Future loss/gain
From the date of settlement TenetConnect needs to make sure Mrs W is compensated for 
the difference between the future benefits  shell receive from her husbands OPS, and what 
she couldve  expected  to have received from the personal  pension  hed arranged with Royal  
London.
C1. TenetConnect  will need  to obtain the notional value of Mr Ws pension pot had it been 
transferred to Royal London plan or the benchmark funds Ive identified, from 14 April 2015. 
This will take into account any necessary adjustments, for example investment growth from 
the notional transfer date,  TFC and income drawdown payments made, up until the date of 
settlement.
C2. TenetConnect  will also need to obtain  the capitalised value of the future  income stream 
Mrs W will receive from her husbands OPS,  uprated according to scheme provisions, for 
example if annual inflation is applied,  and less any tax payable.  
C3. Taking the result  of C1 less C2, worked  out as an annual amount, this should be divided 
by an annuity  rate for Mrs W for her age at the date of settlement. Any payment  here is due 
in cash and is in addition to any amount outstanding from past losses (the result  of A+B).
In addition,  TenetConnect should pay Mrs W compensation of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in this matter.
Ref: DRN54178188putting things right  summary
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
my provisional decision  and award: I consider that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. TenetConnect Limited should pay Mrs W the amount produced  
by those calculations  - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that TenetConnect Limited  pays Mrs W the balance.  This 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award. TenetConnect Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that Mrs W can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for any balance. Mrs W may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. TenetConnect Limited 
must now pay compensation to her as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417818