K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  ongoing issues following a claim they made  on a building 
warranty provided by Amtrust  Europe  Limited  (Amtrust). Where I refer to Amtrust in this 
decision, this includes its agents and representatives.
background
Mr and Mrs J purchased  a property in 2013  which was covered by a warranty provided by 
Amtrust. In the subsequent years  a number of issues were identified  with the property and a 
claim was made on the warranty. This became the subject of a complaint  which  Mr and Mrs 
J referred to our service.  An ombudsman  gave a final decision  on their complaint and 
required that Amtrust deal with a wooden flooring issue,  pay compensation and reimburse 
the cost of a project manager. I dont  intend to repeat  the detail of the claim, or that 
complaint, within  this decision.  
Whats relevant here is that by April 2018,  Mr and Mrs J were informed that the repairs had 
been completed and they could move back into the property. Theyd had to move out while 
the repairs were carried  out. 
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs J made  a new complaint to Amtrust. They  were  unhappy 
with the quality of the repairs, and that necessary  works hadnt been completed before they 
moved back in April 2018. To complicate  matters  further, standing  water had been found  in 
the lower ground  floor. The cause of this was being  investigated at the time of making the 
complaint in November 2018. A separate,  further complaint has been made by Mr and Mrs J 
about Amtrusts handling of these investigations  and the repairs  which were needed once 
the cause was identified.
Amtrust responded  to Mr and Mrs J in December 2018. It didnt accept that it had done 
anything wrong. It acknowledged  that there  were  issues to resolve with the repairs, but that 
these were normal snagging items and could have been resolved quite quickly, but for the 
issue which had been identified with the standing water. 
As Mr and Mrs J remained  dissatisfied,  they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Amtrust had done anything wrong. She thought  that the snagging 
issues identified were  an accepted part of any repairs. Mr and Mrs J didnt accept this. They  
provided a list of snagging issues from the part of the property which  wasnt  affected by the 
new standing water issue, and said that the length and nature of these issues indicated that 
the works  hadnt  been carried out to an appropriate  standard. And they said that these  
problems had exacerbated a serious health issue of Mr J, making  him unable  to return to 
work. Theyve asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I should say at the outset that I wont be considering any complaint  points  which have been 
raised with Amtrust since it issued  its final response  in December 2018. Those matters are 
the subject of a separate complaint which Mr and Mrs J have  referred to our service to be 
considered as they were unhappy with Amtrusts  response to those. And I wont be revisiting  
the final decision which was made  by our service previously. 
Ref: DRN58001992So on that basis, Ill be looking at Amtrusts  (and its agents) actions in relation  to the repairs 
between April 2018 and December 2018. Looking at what  has been complained about, it 
seems to me that I need to consider  the following:
Whether the property  was suitable for Mr and Mrs J to move back into in April 2018.
The quality of the repair works  carried out.
The response to concerns  about  the repair works after Mr and Mrs J returned to the 
property in April 2018.
The condition of the property when Mr and Mrs J moved back  in April 2018
It does seem to me that when Mr and Mrs J returned to the property in April 2018,  the 
repairs had progressed to a point where the property could be lived in again. The evidence 
available certainly  suggests that the surveyor working on the claim on behalf of Amtrust  
thought that was the case. This was in spite of him being evidently  dissatisfied with the 
conduct of the contractors  carrying  out the repairs,  something which Ill consider further  later 
in the decision.
This is not to say that the return to the property went smoothly, or that it couldnt have been 
handled better. The surveyor contacted Amtrust on the day that Mr and Mrs J were  moving  
back into the property,  and said they were  disappointed with the amount of work that was 
still outstanding,  although it was noted  that the major works which were outstanding at that 
point should be completed before Mr and Mrs J returned.
When Mr and Mrs J had moved out of the property while  the repairs were being carried  out, 
furniture and personal effects  had been removed and so a removal company was contracted  
to return the belongings to the property on the day they were due to return.  But when they 
arrived at the property, they were told that because  the driveway had only just been  laid, it 
wouldnt be possible for them to use the driveway  and return  the property to the address. 
This caused distress  and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs J.
It appears Amtrust and its agents  were aware  that the driveway was being laid and that 
access to the property would be limited on the day Mr and Mrs J were returning.  The return  
of certain items was delayed for this reason. I cant see anything to suggest  that possible 
restrictions on accessing the property were discussed with Mr and Mrs J. 
I can also see that, within 3 weeks of Mr and Mrs J moving back in to the property, the 
surveyor had contacted Amtrusts agent  to say that important work appears to have been  
overlooked.  This isnt to say that the property wasnt habitable,  but an indication that 
significant work wasnt complete. Again, this would have caused  distress to Mr and Mrs J. I 
can see as well that the major works  were  supposed  to have been completed around a week 
before they moved back in. So its apparent that major  works  were due to have been 
completed before Mr and Mrs J moved back in, but remained  unfinished for weeks after they 
returned.
The quality of the repair works
Its accepted that, following the completion  of significant works, there will be some  matters 
which need to be rectified or fixed.  Mr and Mrs J argue that the amount of rectifying works 
which were required went beyond what would generally be expected and this indicates that 
the quality of the works were not of a reasonable standard. Insurers, where they employ 
Ref: DRN58001993contractors to carry out repair works as part of a claim, have  a duty to ensure that such  
repairs are effective and lasting.
In support of their position,  Mr and Mrs J have provided a copy of the snagging  list which 
covers the exterior of the property and the upper  floor. The lower  floor isnt included  in this 
list, as it was stripped  out due to the separate standing water  issue.  This has been provided 
to Amtrust for comment as to whether this list accurately  reflects the work which  is required  
but they havent provided a direct  response to this.
On reviewing the list, Im satisfied that it does detail  a volume  of issues which goes beyond 
what would  be reasonably expected to have arisen during the course of the repair  works. 
The list itself runs to over 40 pages,  and details multiple different things which require work 
in each room of the house, as well as to the exterior. The surveyor  also pointed  out that 
various repairs that had been carried out were  inadequate.
I accept that, individually, none  of the issues identified render the property uninhabitable, 
and even as a whole these issues dont  seem to indicate that the property cant be lived in. 
Most of the issues identified are to the fit and finish of the property, such as plastering and 
decoration, tiling, door and window openings  and kitchen units. But just because the issues 
individually are relatively minor, this doesnt  mean that the cumulative effect  of them  on Mr 
and Mrs J is insignificant. I dont think that its in any dispute that the issues with the repairs  
has had a big effect on them.
In conclusion, Im not satisfied that the condition of the property when Mr and Mrs J moved 
back in suggested  that a lasting and effective repair had been carried out.
The response to concerns  about  the repair works
Its apparent that Amtrust were made aware of issues with the repairs  within  a few weeks of 
Mr and Mrs J returning to the property, both by Mr and Mrs J and the surveyor.  But it does 
seem to me that there was a lack of urgency in resolving the issues  which had become 
apparent. The contractor whod carried out the repair  works  was described by the surveyor  
as having a lax approach to completing the remaining work. This was in spite  of the extent 
of the issues with the repairs  that had been carried out being  known, and that works which 
needed to be carried out in order to complete  the original repairs still outstanding.
I do acknowledge, however, that there was a significant reason why the rectifying works 
couldnt be carried out. The discovery  of the standing water meant that investigations  into 
the cause were required. And as the cause wasnt known, there was some  dispute as to who 
would be liable for the issue. As Ive said, the matters pertaining to this standing  water are 
the subject of a separate complaint and so I wont address these here.  
I can understand Amtrusts desire  to identify the cause of the standing  water and establish 
its liability for this. And until the cause was established, it seems to me that rectifying  works  
to the property would inevitably have to be on hold, in case  the items repaired had to be 
removed or stripped out again as part of the further repairs  for the new issue. But what  is 
apparent to me is that Mr and Mrs J werent  being kept up to date with what  Amtrust  and its 
agents were doing  to resolve the various  issues, and that updates  were only usually 
provided when  Mr and Mrs J contacted Amtrusts agents to enquire as to what  was 
happening. Im not persuaded that this was managed well.
Putting things right
Ref: DRN58001994One of the things that Mr and Mrs J wanted to happen was that the contractors who had 
carried out the original repairs  should  not carry out any of the further  repairs. Amtrust had 
originally declined to do this, but I understand  that its now been  agreed that different 
contractors will carry out the further repairs. 
I also understand that efforts  are being  made to resolve the outstanding repairs between 
Amtrust, its representatives, Mr and Mrs J and new contractors. Im aware that in previous 
correspondence with our service, Mr and Mrs J have asked that we put a deadline on when 
the repairs should be completed. Im not in a position to do this, as any deadline would be 
essentially arbitrary and may unfairly penalise Amtrust and its agents if they are unable to 
meet the deadline due to reasons beyond their control. What needs to happen, its accepted,  
is that the repairs should proceed without further avoidable delay, and be completed 
promptly and effectively.  The repairs need  to be lasting and effective. 
Im satisfied, as Ive outlined previously, that the issues Ive identified  did cause a ignificant  
amount of distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs J. They argue that, because of the 
ongoing issues, Mr Js serious  medical  condition became worse and he was unable to work. 
Theyve provided a letter from a medical professional in support of this, which  says that In 
my opinion his current  state of health  is due entirely to the difficulties he is having with the 
insurance company.  Mr and Mrs J want  Amtrust to pay Mr Js loss of earnings. Amtrust  
says that theres  no provision in the policy for it to pay for loss of earnings.
I understand Mr and Mrs Js argument  here, and am obviously sympathetic to the difficulties 
theyve experienced throughout their dealings with Amtrust and its agents. But I wont  be 
asking Amtrust to meet the lost earnings.  Its not disputed that Mr J had suffered with this 
medical condition  for some years. I accept the delays and poor quality repairs between April 
and December 2018 are likely to have had an impact  on his health  but Im not persuaded 
that its been shown that the delays are the sole cause. This is because the context is 
important here. Mr Js ongoing ill health  has been caused, based  on what  the medical 
professional says, on the issues  at the property.  Its apparent that these included not only 
the poor quality  of the repairs which had been  carried out, but also the ongoing 
investigations into the standing water. Its certainly  the case that the medical professional 
identifies the issue with the standing water as being a factor in Mr Js ill health. To that 
extent, Im satisfied £1,500 fairly  reflects the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr and 
Mrs J as a result of the issues  Ive highlighted.
With this in mind, I think Amtrust should pay a significant amount of compensation to 
recognise the distress  caused to Mr and Mrs J and the inconvenience theyve experienced. 
Due to the extent of the issues, and the serious  consequences of its failings, I think  a sum of 
£1,500 in compensation is appropriate in the circumstances.
Im aware that this amount is a lot less than Mr and Mrs J have said should be paid. This 
compensation is intended to recognise  that Mr and Mrs J should have been  able to move 
back in to their property without significant  disturbance. But inadequacies in the work the 
carried out meant this wasnt the case.  There was unfinished work at the property and the 
need to remain  in regular contact with the various parties to the claim, and facilitate and 
attend further site meetings. But Im mindful  that one of the reasons the further repairs were  
delayed was because  the investigations  into the standing water  issue were  ongoing.  It 
seems reasonable  to assume that, without this issue, the further  repairs could have been 
progressed.
Ref: DRN58001995the responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr and Mrs J and Amtrust disagreed with my provisional decision. Ill summarise  their 
responses briefly.
Amtrust considered that any compensation award  should be limited  to £500 for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. It said that there  should  be no compensation for issues  related 
to Mr and Mrs J moving back  to the property  in April 2018 as they had needed to vacate the 
property theyd been staying in due the actions of a landlord. It also argued  that no 
compensation should be paid for the quality of the repairs, as the snagging list referred to 
had been put together  by a surveyor representing  Mr and Mrs J, but whose costs were  being 
paid for by Amtrust. It noted my comments that further repairs  had been delayed  due to the 
unrelated standing water issue, and the investigations into the cause  and remedial works.
Mr and Mrs J said that they didnt consider that the proposed £1,500 compensation was 
sufficient to recognise the extent of the distress caused by the issues identified.  They  argued  
that the further repairs could have been completed while the standing  water issue was being 
investigated, and that the poor quality  of repairs had had a serious  detrimental  effect  on their 
health. They  said that the compensation paid should be in excess  of £5,000,  as well as a 
payment of at least £8,800 for Mr Js loss of earnings. In support of their position they 
provided further reports from medical professionals  about Mr Js health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the additional arguments  made by both Mr and Mrs J and Amtrust, the 
additional documents, as well as the information which formed the basis of my provisional 
decision, Im not minded to ask Amtrust  to do any more  than Id previously outlined.
Ill firstly  address the arguments made by Amtrust, and why Im not persuaded that what 
theyve said means that the amount of compensation should be reduced as theyve 
suggested. 
Amtrust argues that the date on which Mr and Mrs J moved  back to the property was 
influenced by the fact they could no longer remain at a rented property theyd been staying 
at while  repairs were  being carried out. The evidence I have is that, regardless of the reason 
why Mr and Mrs J moved back  on that date, Amtrusts agents and contractors had said that 
the major  works were going  to be completed by the date they returned. And the evidence  is 
also that the works which should have been completed by that date werent. If the works 
werent going to be completed by the return date, an option may have  been  for Amtrust to 
provide cover for short  term alternative  accommodation. I cant agree that its unfair to say 
that Amtrust were at fault for the fact Mr and Mrs J returned to their property before works 
were finished which  should have been  completed before they returned.
Im also not persuaded by Amtrusts arguments around the quality of the works. Amtrust 
make reference to the snagging list, which Ive previously noted ran to more  than 40 pages, 
as being written in laymans terms by a surveyor working on behalf of Mr and Mrs J. While 
the length of the list is significant  in of itself, the more  important  aspect for me is that there 
were multiple items which required further  repairs in each room  of one floor of the property, 
Ref: DRN58001996and further works to the exterior. In those  circumstances,  I dont  think  it can be disputed that 
the original repair works  werent completed  to a suitable standard.
So I cant agree  that there are good reasons why the compensation should  be reduced to 
£500, as Amtrust has suggested.
Mr and Mrs J make the alternative argument,  that the compensation Ive said should be paid 
is insufficient. Their  starting point  is that theyve referred to our guidelines around 
compensation which are available  on our website. Theyve said that £1,500 is in line with 
what we say should be paid for substantial distress and inconvenience, but they consider 
that the nature of the issues means that the distress  caused is more properly categorised as 
extreme. So they think our guidelines  show a payment in excess  of £5,000 is more 
appropriate.
Im unable to agree  that the circumstances of this complaint merit compensation of the 
amount Mr and Mrs J suggest. Its not our role to punish or penalise businesses for errors 
theyve made, but to ask them to compensate consumers for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by errors. 
Ive previously explained why I think there are mitigating factors when  assessing  the amount  
of compensation  which is appropriate here.  In short,  its because  I think  that its more likely 
than not that, without  the standing water  issue, Amtrust and its agents  would  have been  in a 
position to carry  out the further necessary repairs.
Mr and Mrs J dont agree with this. They say that Amtrust was reluctant to have more  than 
one contractor at the property,  with one carrying out the repairs  that the other hadnt properly 
carried out. They also think that the first contractor was reluctant to carry out further  works. 
They also point to the fact that the items on the snagging list which Ive referenced are still 
outstanding and havent been resolved.
When I look at this part of the complaint, I come back to the same  question:  If the standing 
water issue  hadnt occurred, would the further  repairs have been completed in a reasonable 
timescale? And I remain satisfied that this is the case. I can see that there was 
correspondence between  Amtrust and its representatives about completing the outstanding 
works in the initial weeks after Mr and Mrs J moved  back into the property, but these then 
seem to have been forgotten  in the discussions around the standing  water and what was 
causing it. 
Im not satisfied there is enough evidence to show that, without the standing water issue, 
Amtrust wouldnt  have progressed the further repairs  in a timely fashion.  As thats the 
conclusion Ive reached, and having  considered this very carefully,  Im satisfied £1,500 is fair 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs J make the point that, notwithstanding the standing water  issue, the further 
repairs to the other floor of the house could have been completed separately.  But its also 
clear that the cause  of the standing  water was unknown for a significant period of time. Many 
of the further repairs Mr and Mrs J mention as having had a significant  effect  on them were 
related to the bathrooms at the property. I dont think it was unreasonable for Amtrust to hold 
off on carrying out further  repairs,  which would have  involved fairly substantial works  to the 
bathrooms, and by extension the plumbing at the property, until the cause and source of the 
standing water was known. Where repairs are required to bathrooms and a new leak or 
source of water has been found in the property, it seems reasonable for Amtrust to have 
Ref: DRN58001997wanted to establish the cause of the new issue, rather than carrying  out repairs which  may 
have needed to be altered  or stripped out again once the cause  was known.
So for these reasons, I cant agree  that the compensation  amount should be increased. I 
dont underestimate  the effect that the issues with the property has had on them, and Im 
certainly not suggesting that the issues identified werent serious. But, in terms of this 
complaint, there were reasons which I think explain  why Amtrust acted in the way it did.
Mr and Mrs J also want at least £8,800 for Mr Js loss of earnings. This would the equivalent 
of 8 months  lost earnings which arent  recoverable  from any other source, covering the 
period from April to December 2018. Ive said previously  that I didnt think the evidence  
available to me was enough for me to say that Amtrusts failings in respect of this complaint 
had been the sole reason why Mr J was unable to return to work.
In support of their position,  Mr and Mrs J provided two further letters  from medical 
professionals explaining the link between  the issues with the property, the claims with 
Amtrust and his continued ill health.  As with the provisional decision, Im left with one 
question here as my starting point: Was Mr Js continued ill health,  and him being unable to 
work between April and December 2018, attributable  to Amtrusts handling of this claim?
The further submissions  from medical professionals who have treated Mr J say theres a 
direct link between the issues with the property  and Mr Js ill health, in that the health 
problems only began  after issues at the property were discovered. Its also their opinion  that 
until the issues at the property  are resolved, Mr J will remain unwell and be unable  to return 
to work. 
The key here is, I think, that the medical  professionals are saying Mr Js ongoing health 
issues are linked to the issues  at the property, and in particular the poor handling of the 
claims by Amtrust. But as Ive outlined  previously,  and reiterated above,  between April and 
December 2018,  it wasnt only the issues around  the repairs  which  were  present in the 
property. There was also the standing water issue which was being investigated. Of note is 
that neither medical professional is able to say that the reason why Mr J was unable to work  
in the period in question was because of the poor quality of the repairs and continued issues 
with resolving this. 
The reports  from the medical professionals clearly indicate a direct link between the issues 
at the property, and the handling  of the insurance  claims  connected  to these issues and Mr 
Js ill health. So it seems  reasonable to say that the discovery of the standing  water at the 
property and the enquiries undertaken  by Amtrust  to investigate and resolve this would be a 
factor in this. That isnt part of this complaint, and so Im not satisfied I can say that between 
April and December 2018, Mr Js ill health, and him being unable  to work, was attributable  
solely to Amtrusts poor handling of this claim. And as thats  the case, Im not making an 
award for loss of earnings to Mr and Mrs J.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Amtrust 
Europe Limited must pay Mr and Mrs J £1,500 in compensation.
Amtrust must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs 
J accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN58001998Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 January 2021.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800199