K821x#15complaint
Miss P and Mr and Mrs P have complained Virgin Money plc wont  refund money spent  in a 
shop which  Mr P didnt authorise.
background
In July 2018 when Mr P was on holiday he decided to buy a couple of pairs  of shoes and 
was quoted a price  in euros.  When he went to pay using his Virgin debit card he noticed the 
amount on the terminal was significantly  higher than hed expected. The card had already 
been inserted  into the terminal but he got it back. Miss P was with him and they ended  up 
paying in cash. They didnt get a receipt.
When they were back home,  Mr P noticed hed been debited £108.14 by the shoe shop 
involved. He told Virgin Money hed never entered his PIN. Virgin Money  reviewed the 
evidence and felt it was clear Mr P had entered his PIN and therefore authorised the 
transaction. They were  prepared  to use the chargeback scheme to claim money back in the 
case of a duplicated transaction but the rules of the scheme require evidence. Mr P didnt 
have any receipt from the shop for the shoes purchased using cash.
As Virgin Money wouldnt refund the money, Miss P brought  their complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included what Virgin  Money relied  upon  to 
show Mr P had entered his PIN. Our investigator  was sceptical the evidence showed clear  
authentication. He believed it would  have been  possible  for the retailer  to have bypassed  the 
PIN when  they had the chip-read card inserted into the terminal. He asked Virgin  Money to 
refund the money involved along with 8% simple interest and £100  compensation. 
Virgin Money continued to believe Mr P had entered the PIN. They provided additional 
evidence to show why they felt this. They asked an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 21 January 2020. I also upheld the complaint but 
expanded on the reasoning. Neither  Miss P nor Virgin Money  had any further  comments  to 
provide.
I have everything I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and received no further 
comment from either party, Im coming  to the same  conclusion as in my provisional decision. 
Theres little need  to amend what I previously wrote.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing thats  had an impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
Ref: DRN54617902To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  Virgin  Money has shared  of 
the transaction itself. This includes a copy of their original screenshot  showing the chip was 
read but the PIN wasnt  verified. Theyve  stated  that an offline PIN is verified between  the 
card and the terminal when its input. And if no PIN had been input at all, their card 
processor would show this as a different terminal code. This wasnt  the case with Mr Ps 
transaction.
Unfortunately as the transaction now happened some time ago there is no further  evidence  
Virgin Money can provide  us. I accept Virgin Moneys arguments  here but I need to balance 
consideration of this with what the actual  screenshot showed.
Ive also considered Miss Ps and Mr Ps evidence. They couldnt be clearer  that no PIN was 
entered. I see no reason to disbelieve them and find their evidence credible. I cant  really 
see why theyd continue  to be complaining about a transaction for just over £100 if this 
hadnt been what happened.
Im also aware of cases weve seen here where the story is similar. One price  is quoted  but 
another price  is what the customer is asked to authorise when using their card and PIN. 
Many customers dont  notice this until too late and theyve  left the retail premises realising 
theyve massively overpaid for something. This doesnt seem to be what happened  here as 
Mr P noticed  the amount he was to be charged. But that doesnt  mean  there wasnt  some 
deceit behind what the retailer intended.
As our investigator pointed out retailers often have  a way of bypassing  authentication. They 
can force  a transaction through without  the PIN being input. Ive taken into account what  
Virgin Money has said that this would show up as a specific  type of transaction  but overall I 
think this is what happened  here.  As I believe this transaction  wasnt  authenticated,  it 
wouldnt be fair to expect Mr P to pay for this.  
I would add that if Mr P had entered the PIN  even by mistake  before  he knew  what  he was 
being charged  then he would have more than likely  authorised the transaction.  That still 
doesnt mean I wouldnt have asked Virgin Money to repay him. This is because  the other  
factors  the subterfuge undertaken by the retailer  would then come into play.  Im more  
than likely to have  decided that it was fair and reasonable for Virgin Money  to refund Mr P.
Like our investigator Im going to ask Virgin Money to pay Mr P £100 for the trouble caused. 
The original  transaction took place more than a year and a half ago. I dont get the idea 
Virgin Money disbelieve what Mr P has told them but has relied on authorisation alone as 
their reasoning. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Virgin Money plc to:
Refund Mr P £108.14 for the transaction  he didnt  authorise;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 4 July 2018 to the date of settlement; 
and
Pay Mr P £100 for the trouble caused.
Ref: DRN54617903Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and 
Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 4 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5461790