K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Gain Credit  LLC lent to him irresponsibly. Gain Credit  used to be called 
Lending Stream - I will refer to it as that. 
background
Mr A borrowed from Lending Stream on 7 November 2011. He applied for one loan of £500.  
The approved sum was £495, repayable over six months from 30 November 2011. The 
highest scheduled repayment  was the second  one which was just over £247 due on 
30 December 2011. The others were less than that. 
 
Mr A says that he had started taking out multiple  payday loans to pay other payday loans 
and he struggled  to keep up with the payments. He thinks  that Lending Stream  ought to 
have done more affordability checks.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Lending Stream had done 
nothing substantially wrong. Mr A disagreed. The complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guide (relevant at the time) 
referred to the concept of sustainable  and defined it as being the ability  to repay  without 
undue difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, and without  having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
Ref: DRN54993792I have carefully considered all of the arguments,  evidence and information provided  in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Lending Stream has said that Mr A declared his net monthly income as £1,600 and that he 
had expenditure  of £980. Lending  Stream said in its final response letter to Mr A that A 
credit worthiness check was completed  and the third party credit reference  agency 
confirmed a rating which was satisfactory  for the loan obligation.
In 2011, it was not a requirement  that lenders obtain  credit  history details before lending. 
And at this stage of the lending relationship - Mr As first loan - the proportionate approach 
would have been for Lending Stream to have details  of Mr As income and his expenditure. It 
had that information. So on those figures,  Lending  Stream would have seen that Mr A was 
likely able to repay  the instalments for this loan.
Lending Stream has said that it referred to a credit agency and I have seen the affordability 
data Lending Stream says it relied  on and the credit score it obtained at the time. Mr A has 
not been able to send  to us a copy  of his personal  credit file as it would not have covered the 
time period we would  need as this loan application  was over six years ago. Mr A has sent 
some details about his financial situation at the time  some joint account bank statements 
for the period leading up to 7 November 2011. 
From those statements  I can see that Mr A had some  issues  with money and finances but as 
I have explained  above, the proportionate checks I would have expected Lending Stream to 
have done would not have included looking at his bank statements. And as these are joint 
account statements  they would not have given the financial picture for Mr A only:  the picture 
given would have  been for Mr A and his wife.  
So considering the circumstances at the time Mr A applied for this loan, and on the 
information I have,  I think  that Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and was not 
wrong to lend. I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5499379