K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that a third party took over his Santander basic account and the top up card 
linked to it. He complains that Santander UK Plc is holding him liable for the resulting debt of 
around £1,000.
background
Mr M had a basic account with Santander;  he also had a top up card  that is, a payment 
card to which he could  transfer  money from his basic account. He says he stopped using his 
Santander account around  the end of December 2016, instead  using an account hed 
opened with a different provider. 
In May 2017  Mr M ordered a new payment card. When  he collected it from branch he 
ordered a new top up card and at the same time changed the address on the account. 
In July 2017 the password  needed  to access the account online  was changed. Towards  the 
end of August  2017 the transactions that Mr M is now disputing  began.  They included two 
credits from short-term lenders  although those lenders say they have no record  of Mr M 
and they are not seeking any payments from him. Also at the end of August 2017  Santander 
received a request to change the mobile phone  number registered to the account   initially 
online, but later by telephone. 
In October  2017 Mr M called Santander  to ask for a new online banking  passcode.  About a 
week later he told Santander that he remained unable to access  online banking.  And just 
under a week later Santander declined transactions on the account, but later had them 
confirmed as genuine in a phone  call. 
In December 2017 Mr M contacted Santander  to say that he hadnt  been responsible  for the 
account activity  over several  months.  He said he thought  someone  else  possibly from 
Santander  had taken over his account. Santander  didnt  accept  that, and Mr M referred the 
matter to this service where one of our investigators considered it. She thought it was likely 
that Mr M had carried out at least some of the transactions he is disputing. She also thought 
it likely,  however, that a third party had been  responsible for others. But, given the large 
amount of information  needed to operate the account and the use of cards and PINs, she 
thought Mr M had probably allowed someone  else to use the account.   
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive come to 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
The card history shows that a new card for the basic account was ordered May 2017. It was 
collected in branch; that would have  required  identification. When  it was collected, a new top 
up card was also ordered; that would have needed  the PIN, as would  the change  of address. 
Since no new PIN had been ordered,  only Mr M can have collected the new card for the 
basic account, ordered the new top up card and changed the account  address. 
Ref: DRN53024232The password needed to use online banking was changed in July 2017. No transactions 
were carried  out at that time. That indicates  to me that it was Mr M who made the change.  
Had a fraudster been able to make  that change without Mr Ms authority, its likely they 
would have been able to carry  out other  activities  as well  such as transferring money from 
the account. But that didnt happen.  
The next change  on the account was at the end of August 2017, when the phone number 
linked to the account was changed. I agree with the investigator that the calls making that 
change do not appear to have been  made by Mr M. It does appear however that the caller 
was able to check, for example, the old mobile  number  and the expiry date of the basic  
account card before  calling back.  They were  also able to provide Mr Ms email  address and 
part of his password. That indicates to me that the caller  was in contact with Mr M; they 
hadnt, for example, simply found  or stolen his cards. 
In October  2017 Mr M called Santander  to say hed been locked out of his online banking. In 
that call he said that he still had the basic account  card in his possession. He was also able 
to confirm a recent credit  to the account.  That indicates that he was aware at that time of the 
activity on the account. He didnt however suggest  at that time that any of that activity was 
unauthorised. 
Mr M called Santander a week later because, he said, he was still unable to access online 
banking. In the course of that call he said he had the top up card in his possession. That is, 
in the course of a week in October 2017  he told Santander that he was in possession  of both 
cards. However, when  Mr M raised  his complaint  in December 2017 he said that hed lost his 
cards some time in September  2017 and that hed reported the loss then. Santander  has no 
record of that. Mr M also said later that he knew about the credit to the account because 
Santander had written to him to confirm it. Santander says it wouldnt have done  that; I 
wouldnt expect it to write to customers each  time a credit was made, and I dont believe it 
did so here.
After Mr M called Santander to request new online banking details, they were sent to his 
home address. They were  used shortly afterwards. Its unlikely in my view that anyone was 
able to intercept  them;  even  if they were able to do that, they would have needed Mr Ms 
telephone banking details and card and PIN to carry out the transactions  that followed. 
There are, therefore,  a number of inconsistencies  in what Mr M has told Santander and this 
service. I agree  with the investigators  assessment  that Mr M probably didnt carry out all of 
the transactions that hes now disputing. Its unlikely too that he made all the telephone calls 
to Santander;  in particular, I dont believe he called  to change  the phone  number linked  to 
the account at the end of August 2017.  
I do however believe  that Mr M knew far more about the account activity from August  2017 
than he has been  prepared to tell this service or the bank. I agree with the investigator that 
the most  likely explanation for what happened is that he allowed  someone else to use his 
account  including giving them online access and his cards  and PINs  for an extended 
period. It may be that he continued to use the account himself in that time, or that he gave 
someone else exclusive  access. But either way I share the investigators  view that it wouldnt 
be fair to require Santander  to refund the disputed transactions or to write  off any debt thats 
resulted from them. 
Ref: DRN53024233my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to take any further  steps to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 23 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5302423