K821x#15complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has gone  about 
settling a claim she made on her buildings  insurance policy.
Ms M is represented by her daughter, but to avoid  confusion Ill refer only to Ms M in this 
decision.
background
In December 2016 a car reversed into Ms Ms home. She contacted  her insurer  RSA to 
make a claim on her buildings insurance policy. It seems that Ms Ms call wasnt  logged at 
first, for which Ms M received £50 compensation.
Once the claim was accepted, RSA appointed loss adjusters,  followed by a surveyor and 
contractors to carry out repairs. Over the next few months it appears that RSA,  its loss 
adjusters and contractors  couldnt agree on the cost of the repairs. As time passed, Ms M 
was concerned about how long things were taking, the conduct  of RSAs contractors and 
that the proposed work wouldnt  repair all the damage. So in June 2017 she engaged her 
own surveyor to prepare a report.
To move things forward, both RSAs  and Ms Ms surveyors met at Ms Ms home in August
2017, together with RSAs contractors and an independent builder Ms M had contacted.  The 
loss adjusters were  invited but didnt attend.  At this meeting, it was agreed the scope of 
works should be increased but agreement couldnt  be reached about  how to carry  out the 
repairs. Ms M complained  to RSA in October  2017 as she was unhappy about how long 
things were taking and felt shed had poor customer service.
Around this time RSA told Ms M it could  either  instruct its contractors to do the repairs  or pay 
her £6,537.36 plus VAT in settlement of her claim. In its response to her complaint, RSA 
offered Ms M a further £750 compensation for the delays and poor service.  It explained that 
while it wouldnt provide  her with a costed breakdown, the cash  settlement  amount was 
based on its suppliers  completing the works  at agreed rates. RSA also told Ms M that it 
would ask the loss adjustors to consider making  a disruption payment to her since  she 
wouldnt be able to access  some  areas  of her home  during the repair  work.
Ms M obtained a quote from the independent  builder shed previously contacted, and it 
estimated the repairs would cost £16,280.71 including  VAT. Given  the significant difference,
Ms M and RSA couldnt  agree  a cash settlement amount. So Ms M referred her complaint  to 
our service.
After looking into things,  the investigator upheld  Ms Ms complaint. He thought the poor 
service RSA had provided together with the number of times itd changed the costs and 
schedule of work meant Ms M was now entitled  to use her own builder. He said RSA should 
cover the cost of that builder, as well as Ms Ms surveyor costs.
RSA disagreed. It said its settlement offer of £6,537.36 was reasonable and based on rates  
from the Building Cost Information Service offered by the Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors. So this complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 February  2019 and I said as follows.
Ref: DRN51022082Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
Ms Ms complaint. 
cash settlement of the claim
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ms buildings policy entitle RSA to choose  how to settle  this 
claim, and at first it chose  to use its own contractors to do the repairs. But Ms M says shes 
lost confidence  in it for a number of reasons, including the delays  shes experienced so far 
and mistakes such as proposing the use of bricks that would place Ms M in breach of a 
restrictive covenant. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  RSA caused unnecessary delays and has 
given Ms M poor service. RSA itself accepts  this and has offered Ms M a further £750 
compensation. Given this, I can understand why Ms M no longer has confidence in RSA, 
and it seems the relationship between them has broken down. So its fair that Ms M should 
now be able to choose her own builder to put things right, and a cash  settlement is a 
reasonable way of enabling her to do this.
RSA isnt obliged  to provide Ms M with the costed  breakdown shes  requested. Thats  
commercially sensitive  information  it relates  to the relationship it has with its suppliers and 
contractors to undertake  work at a certain  price point. Agreed rates  available  to insurers  
mean they can get work done at a lower  price than might be available to consumers. So 
some difference in cost is not unusual. 
scope of works and costs
I need to consider whether RSAs  offer of £6,537.36 is enough to put Ms M back  in the 
position she was in before her home was damaged in December 2016. RSA has been given 
a copy of the quote from Ms Ms builder  and asked for its comments.  In summary, it noted 
that the quote is significantly higher and that the scope of external  works is wider too. 
From my review, Im persuaded  that the scope of works is the same, with additional items 
from Ms Ms builder. Ive considered each of those additional items to see whether I think  its 
reasonable for RSA to meet those costs.  
Firstly, Ms Ms builder has charged for furniture  relocation. My understanding is that this is 
to move furniture around Ms Ms home in order to complete  the works  not, for example, 
storage costs for moving furniture to another site. I think moving furniture  around  Ms Ms 
home is part and parcel  of carrying  out the work,  so I dont think its reasonable to charge  for 
this.
Secondly, the builder has charged for liaising  with the freeholder. I think the builder is 
referring here not to Ms M, but instead to the Trust that oversees the estate Ms M lives on. 
Ms M herself has already liaised with the Trust about the works, and I think any further 
contact the builder might need to have with the Trust is simply part of carrying out the works. 
So I dont  think its reasonable to charge for this.
Lastly, the builder  has charged for four site meetings, and Ms M has confirmed these were 
at her home. I dont  think this is reasonable as I wouldnt  expect  a builder to charge for 
visiting a potential job, as it is part of the process  of understanding  what work is required and 
quoting for it.
Ref: DRN51022083 
Therefore I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for RSA to pay Ms M what her own 
builder has estimated the repairs  will costs  the quote shows  this as £16,280.71  including  
VAT. But before RSA pays  this to Ms M, RSA should deduct £891.36 for the unreasonable  
items Ive already  mentioned,  along  with any policy excess. 
Id like to make Ms M aware that as her builder will be instructed by her, RSA is not 
responsible for the quality or standard of her chosen builders work. If Ms M is unhappy  with 
any of the work carried out by her builder, shell need to discuss this with them and not RSA.  
Nor will Ms M be able to refer a complaint about  that to this service.
surveyors costs
Ms M would like RSA to pay for the surveyors costs  shes incurred in trying to have her 
claim settled. The terms and conditions  of Ms Ms policy say We will pay the following 
expenses when rebuilding or repairing the buildings as a result of damage covered by this 
cover; architects, surveyors, consultants  and legal fees. RSA says it had appointed a 
surveyor and it was Ms Ms own choice to appoint her own surveyor. As such, it wouldnt 
duplicate fees for the same service.  
However, there were  delays that RSA has acknowledged.  And the involvement of 
Ms Ms surveyor  meant  the scope of works to her home was altered in a way that was 
agreed by both RSA and Ms M. Therefore its fair that RSA pays the £1,868.70 surveyor  
costs Ms M has incurred, since that surveyor wouldnt have been needed if RSA had 
progressed things as it should have. 
inconvenience to Ms M.
Ms M has told us that dealing with this claim has caused her distress and made her existing 
health problems  worse, for which shes provided medical evidence. Shes also told us she 
had planned  to move  house but put that on hold because  of the delays. I accept Ms Ms 
been caused distress  and inconvenience, but I think RSAs offer of a further £750 
compensation is fair and reasonable. I note Ms M is willing to accept that offer.
RSA had no further comments to make. Ms M has provided some  further  comments, 
clarifying what her builder meant by site meetings and asking whether the cash  settlement 
is full and final.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I wont  be changing my 
decision. Im upholding Ms Ms complaint and asking  RSA to pay her repair costs (minus 
unreasonable items and policy excess) and surveyor costs, 8% simple interest on her repair 
and surveyor costs,  and £750 for her distress and inconvenience. To explain why, Ill 
summarise the comments Ms M has made  and why they dont change  my mind.
Firstly Ms M has clarified that the site meetings her builder  has charged for refers to 
progress and inspections  meetings during the course of the works. Ms M says these 
meetings havent  happened yet but will need to take place in order to manage contractors, 
traffic management etc. during the course of the works. I wouldnt expect a builder to charge 
Ref: DRN51022084for managing his contractors or for visiting site to keep  the works progressing,  so I dont think 
this is a reasonable cost.
Secondly, Ms M has asked whether the cash settlement is full and final - shes  concerned 
about who would pay for any additional  costs if things cost more  than quoted  or if 
unforeseen structural works become  necessary. Ms M says it would be unreasonable for her 
to pay such additional  costs.
Id expect the quote provided by Ms Ms builder to be an accurate reflection of the works 
required and what they will cost. I say this because the builder has visited Ms Ms property in 
order to understand  what repairs are required.  If the works end up costing more than her 
builder has quoted, Ms M will need  to discuss it with her builder. The cash  settlement is in 
full and final settlement  of Ms Ms buildings insurance claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, I uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should pay Ms M:
for her repair costs. This is £16,280.71 minus £891.36 and any policy  excess
£1,868.70  for her surveyor costs 
8% simple interest on her repair costs and surveyor  costs, from the date she made her 
claim
£750 in compensation for her distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5102208