K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to provide a ten year building 
warranty after their house was rebuilt following  a claim on their buildings insurance  policy  for 
subsidence.
Background
Mr M brings  this complaint on behalf  of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout this 
decision. References I make to the actions of Mr M also include those of Mrs M.
Mr M had a buildings insurance  policy with Aviva. In 2007, he made a claim on the policy 
after subsidence was discovered at his property and Aviva  accepted  the claim. It paid for the 
property to be rebuilt and this was completed  in 2012.
In 2018, Mr M came  to remortgage his property  and was told by his broker that it would be 
treated as a new build and, without a building warranty,  he wouldnt be able to arrange a 
remortgage. Mr M got in contact with Avivas agents whod dealt with the claim in 2007 to 
ask for one. They said they hadnt  issued one as Aviva hadnt asked them to.
So Mr M complained to Aviva. It said Mr Ms contractor had rebuilt the house so it wasnt  its 
responsibility to provide  a warranty. Mr M disagreed and said the insurance company had 
appointed the contractor  not him. As he remained unhappy he brought  his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator concluded that the buildings insurance policy didnt include the provision  of 
a building  warranty in the event of the insured property having  to be rebuilt.  She said that 
because of this, it made no difference how the claim was settled as a warranty  simply  wasnt 
offered under the cover.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator.  I know Mr M will be disappointed so Ill explain my 
reasoning.
An insurance policy is not designed to cover every eventuality.  Aviva  is free to decide what it 
will and wont  cover under the policy and the terms and conditions  define what  those  things 
are. They should make it clear what a consumer can expect from the cover.
I know Mr M strongly  believes  Aviva should  have  provided a buildings  warranty  following the 
rebuild. My role doesnt extend to saying what cover Aviva should and shouldnt  include 
under the policy.  Thats  a matter for the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority.
My role as an ombudsman is to decide whether Aviva has complied with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN57184782Ive carefully considered  the wording of the buildings insurance policy.  In doing so, Ive found 
nothing to suggest that a ten year buildings insurance warranty  would be provided if a 
property had to be rebuilt  following a claim. In its submissions,  Aviva  has confirmed this kind 
of cover isnt offered  under  any of its buildings insurance policies. 
So, while I acknowledge Mr M thinks a warranty should have been provided  I havent  seen 
anything in the policy that supports this, or anything which  I think  would have reasonably  led 
him to expect that it would  be.
Im not persuaded it makes a difference whether Mr M or Aviva  appointed the contractors  as 
a ten year building  warranty  wasnt offered under the cover no matter who undertook  the 
work. To be clear, this does not mean  Aviva  doesnt  have an obligation to ensure that any 
repairs it undertook are long and lasting. Only that it does not need to provide  a warranty to 
support this.
In summary,  Im not upholding the case and I wont be asking Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5718478