K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has decided  not to issue  a letter  
of indemnity in relation to his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr R ordered a new car, which he intended to insure from the date the car was delivered  
20 April 2018. Mr R called his broker, who Ill refer to as B, to change  his policy.  B and the 
insurer are closely linked.  Mr R told B that his old car should  be removed from and his new 
car added to his policy from 27 April 2018.  
Mr R picked up his new car on 23 April 2018  and was driving it before his insurance policy 
covered him from 27 April 2018. Mr R was later charged with the offence of driving without 
insurance. After being charged,  Mr R hired  solicitors to represent  him.
  
Mr R got in touch with B and Acromas because he thought he had insurance  in place on 
23 April 2018  but he was told his policy didnt  change  until 27 April 2018. Mr R says he 
thought hed arranged his policy to change on 20 April 2018, and the mistake of driving 
without insurance  was a genuine one.
To help with his defence to the charge of driving  without  insurance, Mr Rs solicitors  got in 
touch with B and Acromas  to ask for a letter of indemnity, in which Acromas would recognise 
the intention for the policy to start on an earlier date, and rectifying this. 
In May 2018, B told Mr Rs representative it would arrange a letter of indemnity if Mr R 
provided proof he bought the car on the date he claimed. Mr R provided that proof, but no 
indemnity was forthcoming.  
By the end of July 2018, B told Mr R that Acromas  would not provide a letter of indemnity to 
cover the period in which Mr R was driving with insurance. B went  on to say it accepted Mr R 
was given the false expectation  a letter of indemnity. It also said a witness statement could 
be provided to clarify the circumstances of this matter, to assist  with any mitigation  
presented in court  should Mr R need  it.
Mr R tried to clarify why Acromas  wouldnt  provide a letter  of indemnity. He then referred his 
complaint to our service. Mr R says Acromas should  have used  the Driver and Vehicle 
Licensing Agency (DVLA) database  to check the date the policy  should  have changed.  A 
check would  have shown  his old car was registered to a new owner and the new car was 
registered in Mr Rs name on 22 April 2018.  
Mr R said if Acromas or B had sent him an email or a text message confirming the change  to 
his policy, he would  have  spotted it and amended his insurance  to start on the correct  day.
He was unhappy and wanted  to know why Acromas offered  to write a letter of indemnity but 
later changed its mind.  Mr R says Acromas has the discretion to decide  what should  be done 
in his case, but allowing  him to be convicted  of a driving offence means it can charge him 
more money through increased premiums.  With this conflict of interest, Acromas should  
publish clear procedures  for situations like these and act transparently.
Our investigator got in touch with Acromas, which wrote to Mr R again in January 2019. This 
time, Acromas said it wouldnt provide a backdated  cover note because it would be illegal to 
Ref: DRN51572872do so. Acromas said it may have agreed to a letter  of indemnity if there  had been  an error 
made by B but it didnt think  this was the case.
Our investigator explained to Mr R that our role is to consider whether Acromas had done  
something wrong. As its accepted that Mr R made  a genuine error in setting  the start date of 
his policy, our investigator didnt think Acromas  had done something  wrong  in not providing  a 
letter of indemnity. Mr R disagreed, saying Acromas could issue  a letter as a gesture of 
goodwill if it chose to. He asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for the same reasons.
B and Acromas are very closely linked, but I can only consider the actions of Acromas in this 
decision. Mr R made  a separate complaint about B, which  he brought  to our service under  a 
different complaint reference. So in this case,  my role is to consider whether Acromas made 
an error and, if so, what it should  do to put things  right. 
Mr R told B the wrong date to change his policy. Acromas posted Mr R a certificate of motor 
insurance for the new car, which shows the commencement date is 27 April 2018.  I know 
Mr R would have preferred an email copy or text message,  but Acromas  wasnt obliged to 
send the updated policy in this format. I think Acromas met its obligations setting up Mr Rs 
policy to change on 27 April 2018  as requested and informed Mr R of that change. So I dont 
think Acromas  has made an error  here.
Ive thought about Mr Rs argument that Acromas  should have checked  the information  he 
gave with the DVLA database.  Acromas  isnt obliged to do this, and given  the number of 
motorists renewing their policies every  year, this could be a heavy administrative burden.  In 
any event, Acromas was entitled  to rely on the information Mr R gave and, as Ive said 
above, it wrote to him to confirm when his policy would  be changed. 
I know Mr R wants  Acromas to use its discretion to issue a letter of indemnity. I understand 
also his concerns about the conflict between an insurer having discretion in circumstances 
like this, and his concern  that an insurer might put profitability ahead of its customers best 
interests. But whilst I have  sympathy for the situation Mr R has found  himself in, Acromas  
hasnt made  an error here. And as a result, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Acromas to issue a letter of indemnity as Mr R has asked. 
B and Acromas are very closely linked, and on some occasions B has responded to Mr R on 
Acromass behalf. It appears that the assurances  Mr R received about the letter of indemnity 
were given by B, and these were the subject of a separate complaint which, as Ive said 
above, I cant consider  here. I dont think Acromas is obliged  to compensate Mr R for the 
way its handled  this matter.
Ref: DRN51572873my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157287