K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) because he says his 
critical illness insurance policy was mis-sold.  He says he didnt even know  he had it until 
recently. He also says he had no need for the policy in view of his circumstances when it 
was set up.
background
In 2007, Mr H took out a new repayment mortgage with Halifax  for a term of 25 years. It was 
set up with a short-term fixed rate of interest that, according to the mortgage offer hes 
provided, was due to expire in December 2008.
In October  2008, Halifax set up a mortgage  protection policy.  This provided  critical illness  
cover only (not life or payment protection insurance) that was designed  to pay a lump sum 
sufficient to repay his mortgage if he became seriously ill. The policy was set up with 
decreasing cover to match the outstanding balance of his mortgage for the remaining term. I 
understand it was cancelled  when  Mr H repaid his mortgage, which was still with Halifax,  in 
2015.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She noted Halifax had provided 
copies of correspondence it says was sent to Mr H in 2008  confirming the details of his 
policy. She also felt it was a suitable recommendation for him at the time.
Mr H didnt accept the adjudicators assessment. He maintains he didnt receive  any 
documentation about the policy and that he didnt need it. Hes also questioned why the 
policy was set up more  than a year after his mortgage started.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons. 
The policy was arranged in October 2008 when Halifax says it would have been arranging a 
product transfer.  This was shortly  before  the initial fixed rate on Mr Hs mortgage  was due to 
end and around the time I would have  expected  him to be thinking  about arranging an 
alternative mortgage deal. Its also the time I would  have  expected  Halifax to have 
mentioned the possibility  of making  appropriate protection arrangements.
Ive taken account of what  Mr H has said. But on their own,  and without additional supporting 
evidence, I dont think his comments  are enough for me to say the policy  was set up without 
his knowledge  or otherwise mis-sold.
Theres little documentation available from the time the policy was arranged.  But Halifax has 
provided a copy of a letter  dated  28 October 2008 confirming it had been set up and 
providing details  of the cover. I think this should have made it clear Mr H had a policy  and 
what it was for. I note he says he doesnt  remember receiving this, but its correctly 
addressed and I think the fact Halifax has been  able to provide a copy  is compelling 
evidence it was produced and sent.
Ref: DRN57815822This notwithstanding, if Halifax advised  Mr H to take the policy  it had a responsibility to make  
sure any recommendation  was suitable  for his circumstances and needs.
Mr Hs mortgage was a significant long-term  financial commitment and I think  it would have 
been reasonable to recommend he take cover that would enable him to fully repay that debt 
if he became seriously ill. Arguably, the need  for this type of cover  was greater because he 
took the mortgage in his own name only and had no one elses income to rely on in that 
situation. I appreciate  Mr H had significant  death and sickness  benefits  at work, but these 
were only guaranteed while  he stayed in the same job and they werent  set up to pay a lump 
sum on serious illness. So Im satisfied  the policy didnt duplicate  cover he already had.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr H and isnt what  he was 
hoping to hear. I understand why he may now question the need for the policy,  but I think it 
would have been a suitable  recommendation at the time it was arranged.  As Ive also said, I 
dont think the available  evidence supports his view it was set up without his knowledge.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5781582