K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged  bank account  
called a Premier account. 
Mr R paid a monthly fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. He 
thinks that Lloyds  should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt think  that Lloyds 
had treated him unfairly.  The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should give him any 
money back. 
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Rs case. Ive looked 
into everything that Mr R and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr R has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time and has held three  different packaged 
bank accounts.  Both parties seem to agree  that: 
in 2003, Lloyds sold Mr R a Select account
in 2005, it sold him a Platinum account 
in 2012, it sold him Premier account.  
I understand that Mr R kept the Premier account until at least 2019. From 2012 until 2016,  it 
was designated as a Premier Vantage account.  Mr R did not pay any extra for this 
designation compared to the fee for the Premier  account, but it allowed him to earn interest  
when the account was in credit by managing it according to certain  rules.  Lloyds  withdrew 
the Vantage designation from all its customers,  including Mr R, during  2016.
When Mr R initially  complained to Lloyds, it accepted that it had mis-sold him the Select, and 
Platinum accounts  to him. I understand that it paid him appropriate compensation for this 
mis-selling. So, in this decision, I have only considered the way Lloyds sold the Premier  
account to Mr R. 
.
In 2012, Lloyds, and other  banks, were allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. 
They could do so on an information only basis or as an advised (or recommended) sale.  In 
both situations  they had to tell customers about  an accounts costs and benefits  clearly and 
fairly and give them  a choice about  buying it; and in an advised sale they also had to check if 
an account was a reasonable match for a customers needs before recommending  it. 
Ref: DRN53711582Both Lloyds  and Mr R have told us that Lloyds recommended that Mr R should  buy the 
Premier account during a meeting at one of its branches, so I have assessed  his complaint 
as an advised  sale. 
In 2012, the potential benefits of the Premier  accounted included worldwide travel  insurance, 
a car breakdown service, mobile phone insurance, home emergency insurance and card 
protection insurance. Lloyds also offered customers with Premier accounts lower  interest  
rates on overdrafts than it charged to customers with most other types of account.  
Lloyds has sent us a copy of a form it seems to have filled out either during, or just after, the 
meeting with Mr R. I understand it gave Mr R a copy at the time. 
The form summarised the discussion and records that Mr R had a potential need  for travel 
insurance, a car breakdown service,  mobile  phone insurance and card protection insurance, 
but not for home emergency insurance. 
At that time,  the insurance products the Premier account provided tended to be wider in 
scope than those  Lloyds offered with most of its other accounts and it charged  higher 
monthly fees. The form provided some details about  the scope of this cover and some  of its 
limitations and it seems likely that Lloyds  told Mr R about both the wider scope and the 
limitations. 
Of course,  the form alone doesnt tell me for sure what Lloyds  said or didnt say to Mr R 
during the meeting, but Lloyds seems to have made  a reasonable assessment of his needs. 
I understand that Mr R travelled both within Europe and further afield, had a mobile phone 
and drove  a car. The account came as package and couldnt be adjusted for individual  
customers, so although  Mr R didnt need  the home emergency insurance,  I think it was fair 
of Lloyds to recommend the account  to him based  on his other potential  needs.
I understand that Mr R went on to make claims on the mobile phone insurance  and travel  
insurance and to use the car breakdown service, so Im satisfied that Lloyds told him about  
these benefits  and how he could use them. From Mr Rs account  history,  I also think  Lloyds 
told him about other accounts he could have  taken (including those without a monthly fee) 
and I doubt it tried to hide the fee from him. Indeed, he has acknowledged that he knew  how 
much the account  would cost him. 
Mr R overdrew his bank  account from time-to-time and in correspondence with us he has 
raised several points  about the overdraft  that came  with the account.  Amongst  other things, 
hes told us that Lloyds misled him into thinking  that he couldnt have an overdraft, or a loan, 
with a fee-free  account  and that he tried to cancel the Premier account,  but Lloyds forced 
him to keep  it by saying  he would lose the overdraft if he cancelled it. Hes also said that 
Lloyds wrongly told him that having  the Premier account would improve his credit  score.
As mentioned already,  the Premier  account could provide Mr R with lower interest rates on 
an overdraft than Lloyds  other accounts. However, this does not mean that Mr R couldnt 
have had an overdraft  with a fee-free account. Banks, including  Lloyds, dont usually 
consider the type of account a customer holds when deciding whether to arrange an 
overdraft. They base  their decisions on factors  such  as a customers income  and 
expenditure and credit  worthiness. I fully accept that Lloyds may have told Mr R that the 
interest on his overdraft could increase if he switched to a fee-free  account,  which  would 
have been correct, but I doubt that it told him he would no longer be able to overdraw his 
account. I have  also seen two letters Lloyds wrote  to Mr R during 2019 where it told him that 
Ref: DRN53711583he could change to a fee-free account.  So, I dont think  Lloyds misled  Mr R that he had to 
have a Premier account in order to have an overdraft, or forced him to keep it. 
Similarly, the type of account a customer holds doesnt usually affect a credit score; although 
the way a customer uses an account  can have  an impact. For example, exceeding an 
agreed overdraft limit may have a negative effect.  Again, I accept  that Lloyds may have 
discussed this with Mr R, but I doubt  it told him that just by having the Premier account his 
credit score would improve, which would have been  incorrect. 
So, in summary,  I cant tell if Lloyds did everything  right when it sold the Premier account to 
Mr R, but Im satisfied that it gave  him a choice, told him what  the account would cost and 
what benefits he could  get in return. I think it made a reasonable recommendation and I 
dont think that it misled him that he had to have the account to get an overdraft or that 
having it would improve his credit score.
I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to Mr R. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC, I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5371158