K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Global Kapital Group  Ltd trading as myKredit  lent her money  that she 
couldnt afford to pay back.
background
This complaint is about one running  credit account myKredit  provided to Miss S between  
May and October  2016.
Our adjudicator partially  upheld the complaint. She thought that myKredit shouldnt  have 
approved any further lending  from the seventh  drawdown which was on 27July  2016.  She 
thought it likely that Miss S was reliant  on credit at this time and so she was unlikely to be 
able to make  any further repayments sustainably.
myKredit disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think that the 
repayments on the running credit account  were likely to be unaffordable as Miss S was able 
to repay  them  without difficulty. When  she did fall into difficulty,  affordable repayment plans 
were set up. Miss S repaid only small amounts of interest and the repayments were 
affordable looking  at her actual repayment  pattern. myKredit asked for an Ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
myKredit needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
S could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that myKredit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN53446372There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that myKredit was required to establish  whether
Miss S could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry  regulator defines sustainable as being  without  undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments,  evidence  and information provided in this 
context and what  this all means for Miss Ss complaint. Ive decided to uphold  Miss Ss 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Miss S hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators  opinion  that myKredit was acting reasonably  
when it approved the first six drawdowns.  Because  of this, I dont think  there is any ongoing 
disagreement about these  drawdowns. So Im only looking here at whether it was right for 
myKredit to approve the drawdowns  Miss S made in the running credit  account from the 
seventh drawdown on the 27 July 2016.
As our adjudicator  outlined, Miss S borrowed  relatively  small amounts  of £100 each time but 
she took 3 drawdowns  in May and 3 drawdowns in June. This effectively meant that Miss S 
was borrowing £300 per month.  At the point of the seventh drawdown in July I agree with 
the adjudicator  that myKredit should  have done more to make sure Miss S wasnt  reliant  on 
this type of credit.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review  Miss Ss financial situation on 
27 July 2016 before approving further  lending. And I think that myKredit needed to verify 
the information it found out where  possible. This is to make sure Miss S was in position  to 
make the loan repayments sustainably. If it had done, I think  it would have discovered 
that Miss S was in financial difficulty and borrowing from other short  term lenders so any 
further borrowing  wasnt sustainable. 
I think its relevant that Miss S was failing to make any inroads into her debt over a number 
of pay periods. And as far as I can see myKredit was given no indication  that this would 
change going  forward. This didnt change  throughout the rest of Miss Ss borrowing and 
she was eventually unable to repay  what she had borrowed. I think  that the signs  were  
there at the point  of the seventh drawdown  that this lending was becoming unsustainable  
for Miss S.
So I agree that myKredit  shouldnt have continued to approve drawdowns from 27 July
and Im upholding Miss Ss complaint from this point onwards.
Putting things right
What myKredit needs to do:
Ref: DRN53446373A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all drawdowns from 27 July 2016, not including  anything  it has already 
refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss S which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss S originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.The overall length of time and pattern of borrowing  for these drawdowns means  any 
information is adverse  and these drawdowns  should  be completely removed from 
Miss Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  myKredit to take off tax from this interest. myKredit must 
give Miss S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly  uphold Miss Ss complaint.  Global  Kapital  Group  Ltd 
should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision 
before 10 March 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5344637