K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of Legal  & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  (L&G).
To resolve  his complaint  he wants to be returned  to the financial position he would have 
been in if the mortgage,  will and estate  planning package and legal administration  service 
had not been mis-sold to him.
background
In 2005 Mr B took a re-mortgage on the advice of L&G. When  he met the adviser,  he had an 
existing interest-only  mortgage with a remaining term of 12 years. It was on a tracker rate 
which at that time was 5.7%. The monthly payment was £193 or £261.61 including  
endowment premiums. He owed  £1,000  on two credit cards and had a loan of £8,000.  
Together these  were costing £445  monthly.  
L&G recommended  a new mortgage  over 10 years, with £20,000 on interest only (covered  
by Mr Bs existing endowments) and £27,800 on repayment: It was on a fixed  rate of 4.44% 
for two years. The client review records that debts  of £9,100 were to be paid off and capital 
of £10,000 raised  for home improvements.
Mr B feels  he was in a stable financial position and didnt need a new mortgage or to 
consolidate his unsecured  lending.  Therefore  he says the advice provided wasnt  suitable. 
He says in his complaint form dated 1 July 2016:
We [sic] believe the mortgage dated 21 August 2005 and related services was [sic] mis-sold 
to us [sic] by [L&G]. Full particulars and details of our [sic] complaint are detailed in the 
covering letter.
However there was no covering letter so Ive taken the details of the complaint from L&Gs 
final response letter dated 9 May 2016.  This conveniently sets out the complaints and L&Gs 
responses to them.  Ive also reviewed the earlier correspondence between  Mr Bs 
representative and L&G. 
Mr B said he didnt  need a new mortgage, or if he did he should have taken a further 
advance from his existing  lender. L&G said his existing mortgage was on a tracker rate and 
he wanted to move to a fixed  rate for two years. He also wanted  to reduce his outgoings. 
L&G had sourced the market and found the most competitive and suitable product available  
for Mr B at that time. He was free to speak to his existing lender,  but L&G could find no 
evidence to suggest it was prepared to offer a better  deal. The new mortgage allowed Mr B 
to achieve his objectives and created monthly disposable income  of £295.
Mr B had said there was no need to consolidate debt as he was managing the monthly  
payments. L&G said that while that may have  been  the case, he was only left with limited 
disposable income of £23 each month.  His existing  mortgage  rate was subject to fluctuations  
and he relied on his sole income to pay the mortgage and other outgoings.  Interest rates had 
been increasing at the time of the sale and if they had continued to do so his outgoings 
would have increased. This concerned  him and he wanted to move to a fixed  rate product to 
allow him to budget.
Ref: DRN54591242L&G said that if Mr B had kept all the debt separate to the new mortgage his monthly  
mortgage payment  would have been  about  £94.00  lower. However,  the monthly cost of the 
debt was £445 so his outgoings would have been £351 higher. This would have  left him with 
monthly disposable income of just £38. Therefore L&G didnt believe it was affordable  to 
maintain all the debt separately from the new mortgage.
Mr B had also raised concerns over the legal costs he incurred. L&G said legal costs were 
part of the mortgage process.  All the fees were  clearly outlined in the Key Facts document 
and Mr B was aware of them  before  he agreed  to the new mortgage. 
Mr B had said the legal  administration  fee wouldnt have been payable  if hed used  a 
different solicitor, but L&G said this was wrong.  The legal administration fee covered 
administration tasks.  These included a home visit to talk through  the documentation and 
arrange signatures, bankruptcy searches, obtaining redemption figures, payment instructions 
regarding surplus  funds and answering generic questions. It also allowed Mr B the 
opportunity to ask any questions about  the advice he received and for the adviser  to talk 
through these  with him.
Mr B had also raised concerns about  a will and estate planning service. L&G couldnt agree 
it had coerced him to take the will. He was free to take a will with any provider of his 
choosing and it was his choice to proceed  with the recommended will service.
Whilst there was a need for a will and a suitable  will was recommended,  L&G didnt believe it 
was right for Mr B to fund the cost of the will through the new mortgage. It therefore offered 
to refund the interest  hed paid on this over the term of the mortgage. As the mortgage had 
ended, L&G added interest  at 8% from 21 August 2015 (the date the mortgage ended) to 
11 May 2016 (one month  from the date of L&Gs offer) to give Mr B time to consider  the 
offer.
L&G also offered £150.00 in recognition of the inconvenience caused  to Mr B. The total offer 
was £178.52 made  up as follows:
mortgage interest £27.26
gross interest £1.57
less tax £0.31
plus trouble and upset £150.00
total £178.52
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Bs complaint be upheld.  He hadnt seen any evidence 
to suggest it would have been  cheaper or quicker for Mr B to remain  with his existing lender. 
The rate Mr B was on at the time was 5.7% and this was moved  to a fixed rate of 4.44% so 
Mr B benefited from a lower rate and had more of his mortgage balance on a repayment  
basis.
The adjudicator thought  this was suitable advice  for what  was important to Mr B at the time, 
as potentially the endowment may not have covered the outstanding interest-only element 
and part of the mortgage was moved onto a repayment basis.
The adjudicator said the debt consolidation  had included:
£8,000 loan at £245 per month, with 33 months remaining, no interest rate details  on 
client review form;
Ref: DRN54591243£750 on the first credit  card at 13.9% and £100  payment made  per month;
£250 on the second credit card at 13.9% and £100 payment made per month.
This meant the total cost of Mr Bs outgoings  were £445 and £261.61 for the mortgage giving 
a total of £711.61. Whilst debt consolidation should  be assessed on its individual  merits, the 
loan interest rate (assuming) and credit  card interest rates were higher than the mortgage 
rate - this meant the re-mortgaging  rate of 4.44% was lower but the debt consolidation would  
be paid over a longer  term and would accrue  more interest over the term of the mortgage.
The monthly payment  on Mr Bs new mortgage  was £365.70 plus £68.61 for the endowment  
giving a total of £434.31  - this was a saving of £277.30 per month over the previous payment 
of £711.61.
On the previous arrangement as per the client review form, Mr B had £216 disposable 
income. After the re-mortgage was completed  he had a disposable income of £488.69 and 
this would have  been important to him. The adjudicator therefore thought the advice to 
consolidate debt was suitable.
The adjudicator understood Mr B said a legal  administration fee shouldnt have been 
payable if hed used  his own solicitor or if the lenders free legal service had been used. Hed 
been coerced  into using  a conveyancer which  paid L&G commissions.
But the adjudicator hadnt been presented with any evidence to suggest there was a free 
legal service available from the lender. He was satisfied the approximate legal costs  were 
set out in section  8 of the Key Facts Illustration (KFI). The fees charged seemed reasonable 
to him for the work which would need  to be completed. Mr B could have used his own 
solicitor if he wanted to and would still have  had to pay for legal work. The adjudicator  had 
seen no evidence that Mr B was coerced  into using  the conveyancer.  He also thought it fair 
that L&G be paid for the administration work.
Mr B hadnt  provided  any evidence to confirm L&G had received a commission  payment of 
£50 from the sale of legal services.  
The adjudicator thought  it would have been more  appropriate to pay the cost of the will 
package separately  rather than adding it to the mortgage where Mr B would have incurred 
interest which he wouldnt otherwise have had to pay. L&G had recognised this shouldnt  
have been done and had calculated and offered to refund the interest  on this amount for the 
term of the mortgage,  in line with the interest rates in the contract. The adjudicator thought  
this was a fair and reasonable offer.
Mr B also believed the will writing  company had a relationship with L&G which meant he 
wouldnt have been given the best level of service and the cost of the will may have been 
inflated to benefit L&G and the will writer. The adjudicator hadnt seen any evidence to 
substantiate this claim.  This service didnt deal with will writing so it would  be appropriate for 
Mr B to refer this complaint to the will writer.
Mr B asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said L&G should have 
recommended he contact his existing lender to investigate restructuring of his existing 
mortgage and/or obtain a further  advance.  This would have avoided  the substantial  set up 
costs in arranging  the new mortgage.  He said there  wasnt any need  for an urgent reduction  
Ref: DRN54591244in his monthly payments. The consolidation of the credit cards  was wrong. The balances  
were small and would  have been  paid in a short period.
He failed to see what L&G could possibly have provided with regard to the legal service.
He had paid an excessive will administration fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The suitability of the mortgage advice
Contacting the existing lender to investigate restructuring would only have avoided  the set 
up costs of arranging  the new mortgage if it had resulted in a suitable package. But theres 
no evidence of what might  have been  available  to Mr B from his existing lender in July 2005.
The Mortgage Record of Suitability signed  by Mr B recorded that he wanted to consolidate  
debt and raise capital. The client review recorded  a sum of £10,000  for home  improvements.
The recommended  mortgage had a fixed interest rate which was lower  than Mr Bs previous 
variable rate. His monthly outgoings reduced as a result of the re-mortgage  and debt 
consolidation and he had the certainty  of knowing that his payments wouldnt increase for 
two years,  which both the client review and the Mortgage Record of Suitability recorded was 
important to him.
There were costs involved with the re-mortgage  and debt consolidation.  But overall, I dont 
think the recommendation was unsuitable.  It met Mr Bs aims:  to fix his interest rate, 
consolidate debts  and raise capital.
The will package
Mr B says the need for a will isnt the basis of the complaint. But he believes L&G coerced 
and compelled  him to use its nominated  will writing company. This deprived him of the 
opportunity to obtain a more realistic fee from an independent solicitor.  He complains about 
the fees charged compared to the wider market price, and that consolidating the fee for the 
will package into the mortgage  was unsuitable.
The will package itself was provided  by a third party and thats not something I can hold L&G 
responsible for. So if Mr B has concerns about the quality  of the service he received or the 
price he paid for it, he should  address  these  to the will provider.
It may not have been good  advice  to fund the will package by adding the fee to the 
mortgage. And as the decision to do so formed part of L&Gs  recommendation, that is 
something that L&G is responsible for. But it has already  accepted that might not have been 
appropriate for Mr B and offered  to refund him any interest hes incurred as a result.  So that 
means he wont have  lost out financially  as a result of that decision. L&G has also offered 
him £150 compensation, which seems reasonable for any upset or inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Ref: DRN54591245Mr B has made a number  of other  arguments  about the referral by L&G to a particular  will-
writing company. I dont  consider that this renders advice to take out a will inherently 
unsuitable or inappropriate. It seems to me that Mr B could  have declined  if hed not wished 
to proceed. 
So I cant see any basis on which to require L&G to refund the fee for the will package.
The legal service
Mr B says he could have got free legal  services through the lender, but theres no mention of 
this in the lenders  mortgage offer. So he would always have needed  to pay for the 
conveyancing work  to be done. It was then a matter for him to decide who to instruct,  and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest he didnt have the freedom to appoint  his own solicitors if 
he wished.
Mr B notes that some of the costs  in respect  of the legal work were  charged by L&G rather 
than the solicitor in the form of legal/administrative costs. I dont  find anything inherently  
unreasonable in that: there  are a number of administrative procedures  described above 
which neednt have  been carried out by a solicitor. L&G advised Mr B of the likely legal fees 
and to whom theyd be paid, when he confirmed  his instruction to pay £195 plus VAT for 
such costs to the solicitors and £250  plus VAT to L&G. 
Mr B also raised concerns that L&G had received commission for recommending the firm of 
solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while the complaint has been with us, L&G 
has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which has been accepted. So I 
make no finding on that matter here.
my final decision
L&G has already  made  an offer to pay £178.52  to settle the complaint and I think  this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Legal & General Partnership Services  
Limited should pay Mr B £178.52.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5459124