K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading  as Audi Finance, 
didnt assess whether he could afford to take out a hire purchase agreement  with them in 
2015. 
background
In December 2015 Mr K took out a hire purchase  agreement for a one-year old car. He 
agreed to repay £364.15 a month for four years. At the time of taking out the agreement, 
Mr K had just passed his 18th birthday. Mr K was in employment. Audi Finance approved the 
finance without  carrying out any checks into Mr Ks income  or expenditure. Their process did 
not require this. Mr K had a limited credit  history at the time.
Early in 2016 Mr K lost his job and the repayments for his car became unaffordable. Two 
initial repayments were  made but over the next few months direct  debits were returned 
unpaid and payments were  made  late. No further  successful payment was made  after 
20 September 2016. Mr Ks parents both contacted Audi Finance to explain their sons 
personal circumstances. He was suffering from depression and was unable to work. Mr Ks 
parents regularly sought costs for terminating the agreement early:  in March and October 
2016, and January and February 2017. Audi Finance also granted  a 30-day breathing space 
period whilst Mr K was considering his options.  At this stage, however, Mr K was seriously 
unwell. His parents were  worried about him as well as trying  to sort out his hire purchase 
agreement.
On 14 February 2017 Mr K rang Audi Finance. He wanted to terminate the agreement.  Audi 
Finance sent him the necessary forms. Mr K wanted the car to be collected as quickly as 
possible but this didnt happen so he left the car at the dealership. Mr K refused  to sign the 
forms agreeing to voluntary termination  so Audi Finance  had to wait until the default  notice  
for the arrears expired  on17 March until they could pick up the car. According to Audi 
Finances statements the car was then sold for £11,700 on 7 April 2017. In June Audi 
Finance confirmed Mr K owed them £6,980.
Mr K remained unemployed but offered to repay £100 a month towards the debt. His income 
and expenditure  report  at the time showed he could afford only about £10 a month.
Audi Finance passed this to their solicitors to recover the debt. They  applied  for a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ). Payment of £100 a month was offered  by Mr K and this was 
accepted. A CCJ was obtained in October 2017.  No payments have been made towards  the 
debt.
At this time Mr K complained he should never have been given the agreement  as it was 
always unaffordable. He brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  all the detailed evidence. This included  Audi Finances customer  
records, calls between themselves, Mr K and his parents and the checks  carried out when 
Mr K applied for the finance. She didnt think Audi Finance had carried  out sufficient checks  
when Mr K applied  for his finance. However  she didnt believe additional checks  would have 
found Mr K couldnt afford the finance as his bank  statements around this time showed  he 
was earning £1,000 a month  or thereabouts.
Ref: DRN51436852Mr K didnt agree with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. I 
completed a provisional  decision on 29 April. I upheld the complaint  as I believed the 
evidence showed  Audi Finance didnt carry out sufficient checks and the finance agreement  
was unsustainable.  I asked Audi Finance to write  off the debt and arrange for the CCJ to be 
set aside.
Mr K accepted this outcome. Audi Finance provided some further comments as they didnt  
believe the agreement  was unaffordable at the time Mr K took it out. I now have everything I 
need to complete my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered Audi Finances  response 
to the provisional  decision, including their comments about how Mr Ks debt was managed.  
Ive not seen anything which has made me change  my decision.
Ive split consideration of this case into two parts: whether  the finance agreement  was 
affordable and how Audi Finance managed Mr Ks debt.
was the finance agreement affordable?
To help me reach a conclusion,  Ive considered Audi Finances  obligations  under CONC 5 
Responsible Lending from the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys Consumer Credit  Sourcebook.  
This makes it clear  that a lender should  consider whether  the borrowing is sustainable over 
the length of any agreement.
Ive also looked  at the information Audi Finance  considered when they auto  approved  
Mr Ks application for finance. They feel Mr K met their eligibility criteria so had no reason to 
turn down his application. Their only note of concern was that Mr K had no credit history  but 
thats not surprising as he was just 18. They  knew his age, he was living rent-free with his 
parents and was in employment.
But at no time was Mr Ks income and expenditure considered. Audi Finance has told us we 
do not ask for the customers income at the point of sale.  Instead the retailers  ask the 
customers whether based on their income  is the agreement  affordable   it is then up to the 
customers to check whether they can afford  the repayments.  In  their response to the 
provisional decision, they further stated it is reasonable for VWFS to rely on confirmation of 
employment, good/strong credit check information  and pre-contractual  transparency of 
repayment obligations to assess affordability and allow automatic approval. 
I think this ignores the obligations placed on lenders to carry out a sufficient assessment of 
affordability. Instead it appears to place  the onus on the customer. In this case  an 18 year-
old who I suspect after getting  a new job was looking  forward to buying  an almost-new car. I 
dont believe,  taking Mr Ks personal situation  into account, this meets CONCs criteria. In 
any case conducting an incomplete assessment of Mr Ks credit worthiness increased the 
risk for Audi Finance  that the finance  agreement would turn out to be unaffordable and 
unsustainable. This is what I think happened here.
I would also add that obviously Audi Finance werent  able to obtain good/strong credit check 
information. As Mr K was just 18, he had no information on his credit record.  That may 
translate as neutral at best but Id dispute it could be considered as strong.
Ref: DRN51436853So if Audi Finance  had carried out further checks in December 2015 what would they have 
discovered? Theyd  have  seen Mr Ks net salary income for October, November and 
December 2015.  He received £865, £1,375 and £1,080 from his employment  in those three 
months. Audi Finance would have realised  Mr K  only just 18 years of age  was more than 
likely on a zero hours contract in his new job.  
Whilst Mr K didnt  appear to be paying rent or making any contribution towards  expenses  to 
his parents, Audi Finance  would also have seen from his bank statements that he had very 
little excess money at the end of each month.  Thats without having to pay £365 a month  for 
a car, or pay any money to tax, insure and run it. It seems to me that Mr K, as a young 
driver, would have  to pay at least £200 to insure  his car, and perhaps substantially more.  
This means  an additional expenditure of £565. On a month when Mr K was earning  around 
£1,000 or less, I cant see that he was being left with a significant amount  of disposable 
income. And, of course, his debt would amount to about a third of his total income.
And if Mr K encountered  financial bumps  in the road, he had limited capacity to help him 
cope with this. Within two months of having  taken out the agreement, Mr Ks employment  
was terminated.  His salary in February and March 2016 was £445 and £500. Thats when 
Mr K first had problems paying  his finance  agreement with Audi Finance. It appears from the 
evidence his parents  were  then helping him with payments. They were hoping this would be 
a temporary situation.  But within six months it was clear that this finance agreement  was 
completely unaffordable and unsustainable.   
Audi Finance has disputed that Mr Ks agreement was unaffordable at the time he took it out. 
I would re-state  what  Ive made clear earlier in this decision; any credit agreement must  
prove to be sustainable.  I would  say, based on Mr Ks financial situation  at the time he took 
out the agreement, it was always likely to be a high risk that this wouldnt prove to be the 
case.
how Audi Finance  managed Mr Ks debt?
Before I review this issue in detail, I should  confirm I am aware a CCJ was lodged against 
Mr K in October  2017.  Audi Finance feels our service is not in a position to get the CCJ 
overturned.  
We certainly can dismiss issues  that have been  the subject of court  proceedings. But that's a 
discretionary power we may choose  not to exercise.  Importantly here Im not considering  the 
subject of the court order  whether Mr K owed  the amount Audi Finance were trying to 
recoup  but another aspect of the finance agreement. Essentially whether the original 
lending was unaffordable.  As Im deciding it was, I do have the power to direct Audi Finance 
to apply to have the judgement set aside if I believe that is the right outcome.
I would add I have  been careful  to avoid deciding upon issues  which may have been part of 
the court order. Ive seen nothing which indicates  this covered the unaffordability of the 
finance agreement  when Mr K took it out.
Like our investigator I have reviewed Audi Finances customer  contact notes, phone records 
and Mr Ks mothers verbal evidence.
Ref: DRN51436854As is clear from the background facts, Audi Finance were aware  early  on that Mr K was 
having difficulty repaying his agreement and was suffering from health issues.  These 
became more serious over the year until the car was repossessed.  
I can also see Mr Ks parents regularly enquired about the costs of terminating the 
agreement. Twice in 2016 and twice  in 2017.  Audi Finances contact notes show two 
different costs being generated  each time. One was the cost of voluntary surrender which is 
when the goods are returned to the finance provider and sold. After  that the finance provider 
calculates whats still owing after early termination of the agreement and the value of the car 
are taken into account. The customer will then be asked to pay the remainder.
Under voluntary  termination, the car is returned and the customer's liability is limited to half 
of the total amount payable under the agreement.  
As it turns out, because  Mr Ks car was relatively new, I believe it was always  financially 
beneficial to him to surrender the car. The finance provider was able to get £11,700 for the 
car which limited Mr Ks remaining debt to £6,980.  In March  2017, Mr K would  have been  
required to pay Audi Finance £6,750  plus his arrears of £2,185 if hed wanted  to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement.   
What is concerning is the time it took to sort all this out. Mrs K told Audi Finance  her son 
wanted to get rid of the car in March 2016 but it wasnt until April 2017 that the car was sold.  
I appreciate that as far as Audi Finance was concerned, payments  in part and often late  
were being  made towards the agreement  until September 2016. I can see some  evidence 
that Audi Finance realised the impact of Mr Ks health on him and the affordability issues this 
was leaving him with. They did grant  Mr K breathing space in January  2017  for Mr K and his 
parents to consider their options.
In the end though the only overall  solution to the fact the repayments were  unaffordable was 
for the car to be returned to Audi Finance under one arrangement or another.
At the time the car was returned  and Mr Ks debt was calculated, I cant  see Mr K ever 
disputed that hed have to repay what was owed. I believe  his mothers concern is about why 
the CCJ was ever taken  out in this case.  I do think this seemed unnecessarily  punitive when 
in the end Audi Finances  legal representatives  were willing  to accept the offer of £100  a 
month towards the debt. Id just add all parties  knew this figure was completely  unaffordable 
for Mr K. At this stage he was on benefits and his disposable income was extremely  limited. 
And of course, no payments have  been  made towards the debt as Mr K felt hed been sold 
the car when  the agreement was unaffordable.  He didnt think this had been considered.
Overall I dont think it would be fair to say Audi Finance managed  Mr Ks debt badly. There 
were certainly individual aspects which could have  been managed better   for example they 
realised late on theyd  never issued a default notice. Audi Finance disputes this but at the 
time it could  potentially have delayed things  further.  Having reviewed the phone calls,  I can 
see Audi Finance  were  clear with Mr Ks parents what their sons  various  options  were.
In the end however this isnt the main aspect thats  led to my decision as Id already 
concluded Audi Finance didnt carry out enough checks  and Mr Ks agreement  was 
unaffordable. So Ive gone on to consider what Audi Finance should do to put things right.
whats fair redress?
Ref: DRN51436855Ive concluded  that Audi Finance should never have given Mr K the original finance 
agreement as it was unaffordable when he took it out, and proved to be so within  two 
months. Therefore  its fair Audi Finance put Mr K back into the position he would have been 
in if hed not taken out this agreement, although  Mr K should pay for his use of the car. We 
normally calculate this to be the monthly  cost under the agreement.  Mr K made eight 
monthly payments.
I have limited evidence  what use Mr K was making  of the car after September 2016, if any at 
all. I suspect not very much.  I know there  were no insurance payments being made after the 
first year and the car was to all intents  and purposes off road. The mileage of the car was 
6,172 when Mr K got it in December 2015 and Audi Finance said the mileage was over 
19,000 when they recovered it. But overall I dont  think this shows use of the car was 
massively more than to be expected. On balance I think  its most  likely there  was limited use 
of the car after September 2016.
Taking all this into account, Ill be asking Audi Finance to cancel  the agreement  and 
therefore the debt,  apply  to have Mr Ks CCJ set aside and repay the deposit  (which shows  
on the agreement  as an advance payment of £402) and accept the eight monthly payments 
made towards the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is to instruct Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) 
Limited, trading  as Audi Finance, to do the following to put things right:
 cancel the hire purchase agreement in Mr Ks name;
 amend Mr Ks credit  file so this agreement  is not on his record;
 stop pursuing Mr K for any outstanding debt;
 arrange for the County Court Judgement against Mr K to be set aside;
 refund Mr K the advance payment of £402  made under  the credit  agreement;  
and 
 add 8% simple interest  to this amount from the time it was paid in 2015 to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5143685