K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  on behalf  of her grandfather Mr S that he is unhappy with the premiums he 
has been paying for his plumbing, drainage and electrical cover through  Homeserve 
Membership Limited over a number  of years.
background 
Mr Ss policy  came  under Homeserves  remit in 2011. The policy  was sold to him on an 
advised basis in 2011, when the premium was £235. The annual sale became non advised  
at the 2012 renewal. The price rose significantly over the years to a proposed  premium  in 
2018 of £383.76. Mr S is elderly and didnt  think to question the premium until his daughter 
and son in law (Mr H) looked at his finances.  
Mr H contacted Homeserve who initially agreed  to keep the price  at the previous years level. 
The agent  then offered  to discount  the price to £262.36 then to £140. She then offered to 
reduce the price still further to £81.60 if Mr S agreed to a voluntary excess  of £50. This was 
accepted for the 2018 renewal. Homeserve said the price would go up to £214 for the 
second year.  Although in fact when Ms S spoke to Homeserve in respect  of the 2019  
renewal it agreed to keep  the price at £81.60.
Our adjudicator considered the matter and said that he thought Mr S had been  taken 
advantage of considering  his vulnerability and that the policy renewal letters discouraged the 
policyholder from engaging  with the insurer at renewal. He thought that Homeserve should 
refund part of the premiums for the years 2011  to 2017, based on a notional  price of £214  
plus an uplift of £60 for the fact that the policy in previous years had no excess on it. His 
view on what was appropriate  redress was given before Ms S advised us that Homeserve  
was keeping the price  about the same  (£81.60)  for the 2019  renewal.
Ms S said Mr S was pleased that we had proposed a reduction in the premiums  but queried  
whether it was enough particularly bearing  in mind  Homeserves willingness to continue  to 
offer the discounted price.  Homeserves view is that Mr S had been charged the correct 
price, but that its able to offer discounts or add excesses to policies, at its discretion,  when  a 
customer advises they are unhappy  with their premium. It pointed  out that it has only been 
required to advise customers that they may shop around to find a cheaper policy after a 
change in rules  set by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  governing insurance sales in 
2017.
I issued a provisional decision. Although I agreed  with the adjudicators  findings  I took 
account of the fact that Homeserve was able and willing to offer a new policy  for 2019 at the 
same price, £81.60, as the previous year. For that reason I proposed  that Homeserve refund 
to Mr S the difference  in the premiums paid for the years 2011 to 2017 inclusive, and £81.60  
plus interest. I also proposed that it pay Mr S £100  compensation.
Ms S on behalf of Mr S accepted my decision.
Homeserve said it had nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57265412The following  were my provisional findings:
I wont  quote here the rules that I have applied, as our adjudicator has clearly  set them  out. 
But essentially I have to consider whether the renewal  information sent by Homeserve each 
year was clear, fair and not misleading. And that Homeserve didnt take advantage of the 
potential vulnerability  of their customer.
I have looked  at a few of the renewal  letters  sent to Mr S in respect of his Homeserve policy. 
The first point to note is that in 2011 when Homeserve  took over the policy it was sold on an 
advised basis. When selling a policy on an advised  basis the insurer/broker has to assess 
the customers demands and needs.  In doing  so Homeserve  recommended to Mr S that he 
take out the policy for plumbing, drainage,  water and electrical supply. It should also have 
assessed the premium  he should pay, and whether he would want  to pay a voluntary excess 
which could have reduced the price.  I have noted  the following  in the renewal/ policy  letters:
In 2011 it said "Thanks to your Complete Utilities Cover you can relax and We 
believe this policy will meet your needs.
In 2012 the letter  said It is renewed  automatically. No action is required on your part.
However, in todays economy when many struggle financially, you may wish to be 
reminded of the benefits of your cover.  It gave a customer service  number  but no 
indication as to what Mr S could do if he was unhappy with the price.
In 2014 it said Your HomeServe Cover5,  the new name  for your cover will 
automatically renew on 31 January 2014  so theres  nothing  for you to do. It gave a 
number to call if Mr S wanted to make  any changes but again didnt encourage him in 
any way that there may be a need  for him to get in touch with it if he was unhappy  
with the price or the terms offered.
In 2015 the wording  was similar to that of the previous year and again didnt give any 
indication that Mr S may need  to get in touch.
The 2016 letter  is headed Relax you are covered
The fact that the policies  were not sold on an advised basis after 2011  was noted in the 
renewal letters but not very prominently.  For instance in 2012 at the foot of page  2 and in 
2013 on page 5. In my view, Mr S might reasonably have  been expecting to be advised on 
whether Homeserve recommended the policy to him each year. But it wasnt  made clear to 
him that this would no longer happen.
Also, I think, overall, the way the letters are set out, encourages the consumer  to relax 
because their cover was continuing. It highlighted the benefits of the policy but didnt 
encourage the consumer to get in contact. Even though if they had done so they could have 
been offered a substantial discount  on the price that this legacy policy  had reached  due to 
what appears to be nothing more than Mr Ss tenure with and loyalty  to Homeserve. I think 
there was a need for Mr S to get in touch and by effectively discouraging him from doing  so, 
this meant  he couldnt be told that there  were  other  policies that may have been available to 
him from Homeserve that would have been cheaper. Or that there were discounts on this 
policy that he could  take advantage of.
In particular he wasnt advised that the premium could be reduced if he chose  to have a 
voluntary excess.  As I understand he hasnt made a claim  since  2011, he may well have 
wanted this, and I note that he has chosen  to have  this in his 2018 and 2019 renewals.
Ref: DRN57265413This brings  me onto the question of vulnerability.  Mr S clearly is vulnerable.  As it initially sold 
the policy "advised" its likely that Homeserve would have known his age and the likelihood  
of him being  able to research the internet  or to shop  around.  The fact is that throughout the 
time he had had a policy  with it, he never  engaged with it over the price. This is part of what 
our adjudicator referred to as an "inequality of knowledge. So far as Mr S was aware  he 
was getting a competitively priced policy which covered his needs.  I think  the way the letters  
were drawn up werent clear and were in my view misleading, especially for someone in 
Mr Ss position for the reasons I have set out.
I have noted in particular that in the course of the telephone call with Homeserve in 2018 
M H had to negotiate quite hard to achieve the discount for his father-in-law. This included 
being able to refer to the internet to find out what policies Homeserve offered and its prices.
I understand that Homeserve has to cover its costs  and make a profit.  We asked it for details 
of its pricing structure,  policy increases for similar customers and the reasons for such  
increases. We would have treated this information  confidentially. It has only supplied  details 
of the then current costs  for half a dozen customers it says are in a similar position to Mr S.
Homeserve has in response to our adjudicators  view pointed  out that it wasnt  until 2017  
that it was required  by the FCA to tell customers that they can shop around  for a better price. 
But I dont think this is a case of Mr S not being  able to shop  around.  Homeserve itself 
clearly has had (as far as I know) an identical or superior product  available for a much  
cheaper price than Mr S has been paying,  at least since 2011  - especially given the 
availability of a voluntary excess,. It may well have been less than £81.60 in previous years. 
It hasnt made any effort to tell him about this or to encourage him to get in touch with it. 
What it has done  though  it continually  put his price  up annually  (except  in 2014 when it went 
down by £2).
So rather  than Mr S shopping around, what he needed to know about was the availability of 
the alternative policy (and of an excess he could opt for) so he could  make  an informed 
decision as to whether  to continue his policy at the price offered. The price he was offered 
seems to have been significantly more than what the new policy  providing  equivalent,  or 
indeed superior, cover  was available for. So I think that by Homeserve effectively misleading 
Mr S into staying  on the legacy policy and continuing to increase his price  most years,  
Homeserve took advantage of him. Thats not treating a customer fairly - which  is something 
that Homeserve  is required  to do by the regulatory rules, and always has been, for many 
years prior to the introduction of the transparency  at renewal rules in 2017.
I have considered what the appropriate  remedy should be. In this particular case,  I think if 
Mr S had been offered a policy with a voluntary excess in 2011, he would have accepted it, 
considering that he hasnt  made  a claim since then.  For the 2018 renewal, after some hard 
negotiating by Mr H, the premium  was reduced to £81.60 (with the excess). Homeserve 
made it clear  that it would always consider  the price each year. And when Ms S spoke to 
Homeserve for the 2019 renewal it agreed to keep the price at £81.60.  This indicates to me 
that Homeserve  is willing and economically  able to provide a policy to Mr S for £81.60. It 
presumably considered  his particular circumstances, so I dont think this could necessarily 
be taken to be the price  it would offer to all its customers. But it was the price it was 
prepared to offer the policy for to Mr S.
I think the fair resolution for this complaint  is for Homeserve to refund to Mr S the difference 
between the present price of £81.60 and the price that he paid for the 2011 to 2017 
Ref: DRN57265414renewals inclusive. He paid each premium on an annual basis.  Homeserve should add 
simple interest at 8% from the time that he paid each premium until the date it pays  him.
I note that the question  of compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr S 
hasnt been addressed. I think Homeserve should  pay £100 to reflect  this.
As neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings I confirm that those 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Homeserve Membership Limited to:
refund  to Mr S the differences between £81.60 and the premiums he paid for the 
2011 to 2017 renewals inclusive  together with simple interest* at 8% a year from the 
date he paid each  annual premium until the date it repays him.
pay £100 compensation to Mr S for the inconvenience and upset caused to him.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Homeserve to take tax off any interest  it pays  to 
Mr S. Should Mr S request it, Homeserve should give Mr S a certificate  showing how 
much tax it has taken off so he can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S on behalf of 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5726541