K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains Canada Square Operations Limited  agreed a loan that he couldnt afford. 
Background
Mr H took out an Egg branded loan (through Canada Square)  for £12,000 in 2003. 
In 2018, he complained to Canada Square that the loan had been mis-sold because  in 2003,  
hed been a full-time  student and had no job or income. 
Canada Square  responded  to Mr Hs complaint  but only responded about  the Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  on his loan. As Canada Squares response  didnt  address  his 
concerns about  the affordability  of the loan, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Hs complaint. He said,  overall, he thought Canada 
Square had considered Mr Hs application for the loan fairly and didnt think it was 
unaffordable at the time Mr H took it out. 
Mr H didnt accept this. He said he was a vulnerable customer because he was a student 
and didnt have  an income. He had provided  evidence that he was student  and he was 
concerned Canada Square  hadnt  provided evidence that the loan was properly assessed. 
As Mr H didnt  agree, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H has made a number of points and 
Ive considered all of them. But Ive only commented  here on the points I consider most 
relevant to his complaint.
Canada Square  had an obligation, when lending,  to do so responsibly.  Generally this means 
they needed to conduct proportionate checks to ensure Mr H could afford  to repay what  he 
was borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Initially, Mr H told us he had no job or income  at the time this loan was granted.  He also told 
our investigator he thought Canada Square  had falsified the details in his application  in order 
to approve the loan.  This was because  the application showed a salary  and the name of an 
employer and hed said he didnt have a job or income at the time.  
More recently, Mr H has said we can ignore this part of his complaint. He now says that he 
was working at the business stated on the application, but that this was only part-time. And 
hes provided evidence  from the university  he attended to show he was enrolled as a student 
at the time the loan was taken out. So what remains for me to consider is whether Canada  
Square conducted appropriate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr H. 
Mr H applied for this loan online. Theres no dispute that Mr H applied  for the loan himself. 
Which, since Mr H is no longer suggesting the information was falsified by Canada Square, 
means the information recorded on their application  system is  more  likely than not  
information Mr H entered  himself. 
Ref: DRN51333042This information shows that Mr H told Canada Square he was working, earning a yearly 
salary of £18,000  with a monthly  income after tax of £1,150. Theres nothing  on the 
application which suggests Mr H told Canada Square he was a student, so on balance, I find 
he didnt tell them on the application.  
Mr H says because he was young  and a student this made him a vulnerable  customer.  I 
dont agree that his age or being  a student automatically meant he was a vulnerable 
customer but even  if I did, this wouldnt necessarily have meant  the loan shouldnt  have  
been agreed. And as Mr H hadnt  told Canada Square he was a student, I dont think they 
couldve taken it into account.  Lots of students still have an income and banks will not 
ordinarily decline a loan because someone  is a student. Mr H told them he had an income 
and so Canada  Square were obliged  to assess Mr Hs ability to repay the loan  which  for 
reasons Ill go on to explain I think they did correctly.  
Canada Square  have told us that they would also have done a credit check  and that Mr Hs 
application was referred to underwriters for further checks. Weve asked Canada Square  for 
further information about these other  checks  but they say they no longer have any details. I 
dont find this unreasonable  given  that by the time Mr H complained,  it was about 15 years 
after the loan application. So Ive had to base my decision on the information we do have 
and what I think is more  likely than not in all the circumstances. 
On the application, Mr H had declared  other  commitments like a mortgage/rent  payment, a 
credit card payment and another loan payment. The monthly repayment  of this loan was 
£185.04 and based on the other  commitments Mr H told Canada  Square about, he had a 
disposable income of £578. And I find it likely some further checks  were completed  on 
Mr Hs application when  it was referred  to underwriters. This mightve included, among other 
things, a manual  assessment of Mr Hs income and outgoings. Overall, I find  on balance   
Canada Square  carried out appropriate  checks  to assess Mr Hs ability  to repay  the loan. 
A few days  after the application, Mr H got back in touch with Canada Square to ask that they 
remove the PPI from the loan  which they did. Mr H says he did this because hed realised 
he couldnt afford the PPI (which was being  added to the loan) and he thinks  this shouldve 
prompted Canada  Square to reconsider the loan  and realise the loan itself was 
unaffordable for him. But I dont think Mr Hs decision to remove  the PPI alone  is enough  of a 
reason in this case to expect them to reconsider the loan and at the time, it would seem  
Mr H thought he could  afford it as well. 
I understand Mr H later defaulted  on this loan and had other difficulties with his finances. But 
what Im considering here is whether it was affordable when Canada Square agreed to lend 
it. And for the reasons  Ive explained, I think it was. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold  Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5133304