K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of a home insurance claim he 
made for subsidence  at his property. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2020. Heres  what  I said in my 
provisional decision:
background
 
There are several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of 
Zurich. For ease of reference Ill refer only to Zurich by name in this decision,  even  
when referring to the actions of its agents/representatives.
There is extensive background to this complaint as Mr Bs claim for damage caused 
by subsidence  has been ongoing  since  2011.  Our investigator set out a detailed  
timeline of the key events in her opinion  and from what  Ive seen, these events arent  
in dispute. So, Ill only specifically cover the events and issues  I consider to be 
materially relevant to Mr Bs complaint. But in coming to this decision I have 
considered everything  that has happened.
Mr B first made a claim about subsidence  damage in 2011.  It was established that 
subsidence was being caused  by roots from vegetation in his neighbours property 
affecting the moisture levels in the clay subsoil beneath both properties. Zurich  
attempted to contact  the neighbour and get him to deal with the vegetation  but 
received no reply.
Repairs were completed to Mr Bs property in 2012, but because no action was taken 
to remove the vegetation,  damage  soon reoccurred. Further monitoring was carried  
out and in 2015, Zurich  obtained permission from the neighbours mortgage provider 
to access the property and remove the offending  vegetation. At this point Zurich 
wanted to carry  out new repairs to Mr Bs property, but Mr B didnt agree because he 
didnt believe his neighbour  would  maintain  the vegetation and so thought the 
damage was likely to reoccur.
In 2016 Zurich appointed  solicitors to pursue Mr Bs neighbour for mitigation  the 
removal and upkeep of further vegetation.  But they were also unsuccessful in 
obtaining a response.
In 2017 Zurich proposed underpinning Mr Bs property to stabilise it and protect it 
from further movement. It also proposed installing  a movement joint between Mr Bs 
and the neighbours property  to protect Mr Bs property  from damage caused by 
continued movement  of the neighbours property.  
Mr B wasnt  happy with the proposed  solution.  He didnt feel Zurich  had properly 
investigated its suitability  as he said it hadnt  carried out site visits. He was also 
unhappy that Zurich hadnt followed through on threats of legal action it had made to 
his neighbour.  Mr B said when Zurich decided to remove the vegetation, it gave his 
neighbour the impression  that it wasnt his responsibility  to sort it out. Based on all of 
this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN55069612Our investigator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  She didnt  think  
Zurich had caused unnecessary delays as she felt these had been caused  by the 
neighbour. She said it carried  out monitoring and instructed  experts and solicitors to 
obtain reports and pursue  the neighbour  which is what she would have expected it 
to do. She said Zurichs proposed solution  was the best way forward  as it would 
protect against further damage without requiring Zurich to carry out work  on the 
neighbours property. She said it wouldnt be fair to expect Zurich to carry out work to 
the neighbours property as it wasnt his insurer.
Mr B wasnt  happy with our investigators  assessment. He said he felt Zurich  should 
utilise the Party  Wall Act to get permission to underpin both properties. He said this 
was the only way of insuring further damage wouldnt occur   because his neighbour 
will not maintain the vegetation which means  his property  will continue  to move. He 
said movement joints are for managing seasonal movement, but the movement at his 
neighbours property is much  more severe  than that.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs additional  points, but she still felt that Zurichs 
proposed resolution  was both suitable,  and fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
She said it was the most feasible and effective solution given the situation.
So, because no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Following this, Mr B provided  a report from a surveyor he had instructed. This 
surveyor made several comments about  the suitability of Zurichs proposed  
resolution. I shared  this report with Zurich, and it arranged for a site visit to take place 
between its surveyor and Mr Bs surveyor. This was completed in July 2019.
Based on the meeting it was agreed that Zurich would extend the underpinning  
around the perimeter of Mr Bs property.  Both surveyors agreed that a movement 
joint was needed,  but Mr B did not want it on his side of the boundary wall as it would 
reduce the size of two of his rooms. It was agreed  that Mr Bs surveyor would design 
their own scheme to compare to Zurichs  for cost, suitability and Mr Bs satisfaction.  
But up to now, no report or design  from Mr Bs surveyor  has been  received.
Mr B has suggested that the only way to fully resolve the issues with his property is 
to gain consent from his neighbour to access his property to fully underpin  both 
properties. Otherwise he says the vegetation  will continue  to grow and cause 
damage to both properties   which will affect the resale value  of his home. Mr B has 
suggested that Zurich should instruct a process server to ensure his neighbour gets 
the letters and that this person should  explain to him what is enclosed. Mr B also 
feels that Zurich should  get his neighbour to sign a legal declaration that he will 
maintain the vegetation moving  forward, and that it should consider recovering the 
costs of any repair work from the neighbour if he doesnt agree.  
Zurich says that based on the history of the claim it is highly unlikely to get 
permission, or even any contact, from the neighbour. It says it cannot  simply 
undertake work to the neighbours property without  permission,  so it has sought  to 
create a solution  which is solely in its control  and doesnt require access  to the 
property. Zurich says its design scheme  will prevent root incursion and protect  
against further movement, both from the soil and the neighbours property. It has also 
highlighted that its down to Zurich whether it wants to proceed with any recovery 
Ref: DRN55069613action against  the neighbour. Zurich  says its responsibility to Mr B is to cover  the 
loss, and it believes it has put forward a reasonable solution.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
It isnt in dispute that Mr Bs property has suffered damage due to subsidence or that 
his policy  provides cover for this. What  remains  for me to decide  is whether Zurichs 
offer of settlement is in line with the terms of the policy, and whether  it is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Zurich has proposed to underpin Mr Bs property  around the full perimeter. It says the 
depth of the underpinning  isnt definitive  as if it discovers roots  at the depth 
highlighted on the proposal, it will continue deeper until no roots  are present. It says 
this is the same as if a new property were being built, so it believes this is a suitable 
proposal to stabilise Mr Bs home.
Zurich also proposes  to install a movement joint between the two properties,  on 
Mr Bs side.  This will result in Mr B losing  some space in his property, which  is one of 
the reasons he doesnt want to accept this solution. He also doesnt believe it is a 
suitable solution for the amount of movement at his property.
I fully appreciate Mr Bs wish for a solution  that will prevent  his neighbours property 
from moving and to protect  the resale value of his home. But I think its important to 
point out that his insurance policy doesnt provide cover for his neighbours property. 
It also doesnt provide  cover for pro-actively preventing future subsidence,  or for the 
impact his neighbours actions could have on the value  of his home. Mr Bs policy  is 
designed to cover the damage to his property caused by the subsidence.
In repairing  damage  caused by subsidence, its our services view that any repair 
would need to be lasting and effective.  Typically, insurers  and our service would 
recommend that the cause of the subsidence  is identified and corrected before 
repairs are carried out, rather than having a property underpinned   which  in itself 
could be deemed  a preventative measure. But in some circumstances, underpinning  
is the only viable solution to deliver  a lasting and effective  repair. And in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, underpinning appears to be the most  suitable 
solution because  Mr Bs neighbour is unlikely to maintain the vegetation.  So, without 
the underpinning and movement joint, Mr Bs property would continue  to move,  and 
any repairs wouldnt be lasting or effective.
Mr B has suggested that Zurich ought  to do more  to pursue his neighbour through 
legal channels, such as the Party Wall Act or by instructing a process server  to 
deliver letters. He wants Zurich to get the neighbour to agree to removal of the 
vegetation and to maintain it going  forward. Alternatively, he wants  Zurich  to underpin 
both properties  and/or install any movement  joint on the neighbours side. Mr B would 
also like Zurich to pursue recovery of its outlay from his neighbour if he doesnt agree 
to the above suggestions.
Zurich has said that installing  the movement joint on the neighbours side, and/or 
underpinning the neighbours property is only an option in theory.  But in reality,  even 
Ref: DRN55069614if it considered that either was necessary, it would need permission from the 
neighbour to access his property, both to plan and carry out those works. And given 
the history of the case, it doesnt believe it is likely  be successful in obtaining a 
response from the neighbour, let alone  obtaining  the neighbours consent.
From what  Ive seen, Zurich has made numerous  attempts to contact Mr Bs 
neighbour over several years. It has done  this both through a loss adjuster and 
through a firm of solicitors. But Mr Bs neighbour hasnt responded to any attempted 
contact. So, I think its unlikely that any further attempts at contact, at this stage, 
would be any more  successful. And while I fully understand that Mr B would like to 
see his neighbour held accountable, I agree with Zurich that it is its decision  whether  
to seek reimbursement from the neighbour or not. Zurichs responsibility to Mr B is to 
accept the claim and provide a solution which will deliver a lasting and effective 
repair  to his property only.
Mr B is concerned that the proposal wont fully stabilise his property or protect it from 
the movement  of his neighbours  property.  But from what Ive seen, Zurichs proposal 
has been designed by suitably qualified experts who believe  it will. And although 
Mr Bs surveyor was due to provide alternative  designs, none have been received. I 
also havent seen  any evidence from Mr Bs surveyor to support his view that Zurichs 
updated proposal isnt suitable.  So, in these circumstances I see no reason to doubt 
the expert view of Zurichs surveyor. 
Ultimately, Zurich has put forward an offer that expert opinion confirms  will stabilise  
the property and protect it from further movement of the neighbours property. I 
appreciate Mr Bs concern that hell lose some  space in two of his rooms, and I do 
sympathise. But the proposed solution can be carried  out without  any need to make 
contact with Mr Bs neighbour  and I think this is crucial  in this case. So, based on 
everything Ive seen, I think Zurichs offer is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
It follows that Im not currently  intending to direct Zurich to do anything more  than it 
has offered to do.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision. 
Mr B provided a detailed  response,  explaining  the reasons he didnt agree with my findings. 
To summarise, he said:
I have incorrectly stated that his disagreement  with the movement joint proposal is 
aesthetics. His objections are actually on the grounds  of structural  integrity and his 
objections are backed up by professional opinion.
The movement  joint is only designed  to deal with seasonal movement and is not 
sufficient to cope  with the amount  of movement at his neighbours property. He believes 
it will fail, resulting  in further damage.
He would like me to visit his property  as he believes  the issues  would become instantly 
clear if I did.
Ref: DRN55069615Ive placed a great  deal of faith on the fact that Zurichs loss adjusters and surveyors are 
the experts.  Mr B feels he is better  placed  to comment  on the situation  because he has 
learned a great deal about the proposal and has local knowledge of the two properties.
Zurich is ignorant of the level of movement on the neighbouring  property as they have 
only ever monitored  his property.
Its untrue to say that his surveyor agreed that movement joints were  needed.
Zurich should employ another independent surveyor to provide a second opinion  on its 
plans, as he has already done at great personal  expense.
He would attempt to speak to his neighbour and obtain permission for Zurich to carry out 
underpinning a short way under  his side of the boundary.  But if no agreement could be 
reached and I still felt Zurichs proposal  was reasonable, that Zurich should  proceed with 
the underpinning  of his property, but not with the movement  joints. He will not accept 
movement joints  on his side of the boundary as he is sure it will result in further damage.
Following this response, Mr B made contact with his neighbour. He says he convinced his 
neighbour to agree  to Zurich partially underpinning his property. He requested that Zurich  draft 
a letter  to formalise this which  he was, in his words,  fairly confident  his neighbour would sign.
I shared Mr Bs responses with Zurich and asked that it comment  on the technical concerns 
he raised with respect to the movement joints. Zurich forwarded the request to its loss 
adjuster who said:
If Zurich were to agree with Mr Bs suggestion,  and partially underpin the neighbours 
property, its likely that a movement joint would still be required somewhere along the 
neighbours wall. The only way to prevent there being a movement joint at all would be 
to fully underpin both properties  which he understood  to be something that Zurich 
would not pay for under the policy.
The idea of the movement joint and cutting the foundations is so that the underpinned 
property is disconnected from the non-underpinned  property, which  will protect it from 
movement of the non-underpinned  property.
Installing the movement joint on the neighbours side is more practical than partially  
underpinning. But he suspects this will not be possible based on the history  of the claim. 
The proposed  solution has been  put forward as it doesnt  require contact with or 
approval from the neighbour.
He doesnt agree  with Mr Bs comments about the joint site visit with Mr Bs surveyor. 
He says Mr Bs surveyor had no idea about the history of the claim, so he talked them  
through it. The agreement was that Mr Bs surveyor  would put forward  an alternative  
proposal and both would be submitted to Zurich.  But despite chasing for this several 
times, no alternative has been provided.
Zurich added to these comments by explaining  that it will not consider carrying out 
underpinning to the neighbours property as his property is not covered by Mr Bs policy.  
It says its proposed scheme  was approved in principle by Mr Bs surveyor and that his 
surveyor hasnt provided any alternative  suggestions. 
Ref: DRN55069616Zurich says the only real option is to proceed with its proposal to underpin Mr Bs property  
and install  a movement  joint. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional evidence  and arguments  put forward in response to my provisional  decision.
Firstly, I think it will be helpful  to address Mr Bs request that I visit his property. I should 
explain our service is here to provide an informal, alternative dispute resolution  service to the 
courts. And we reach our decisions  by reviewing evidence and arguments  supplied by both 
sides. When reviewing technical arguments,  we rely on the opinions  of industry professionals  
and/or independent  expert reports. It is not within my remit to carry out a site visit.
Mr B has put forward several  technical  arguments for why Zurichs  proposal isnt suitable. He 
says his concerns  are supported by professional opinion  by which  he seems to mean  the 
surveyor he instructed previously.
Zurich and its loss adjusters  have assessed the comments of Mr B and his surveyor.  They also 
met on site in July 2019 where discussions took place over the suitability  of Zurichs design. 
During this meeting a different surveyor, from the same firm, attended because Mr Bs original 
surveyor had left the firm. Based on this meeting Zurich  amended  its proposal to extend the 
underpinning around the full perimeter  of Mr Bs property  and specified how it will support the 
chimney breast. It also answered the concerns expressed about the depth of the underpinning.
There seems  to be a dispute  over what was stated at this meeting regarding  the movement 
joint. Zurichs  loss adjuster says Mr Bs surveyor agreed that a movement joint was needed. 
But Mr B says this isnt the case. He says it was clear from the meeting that an alternative  to 
the proposal of a movement joint on his side of the party wall was needed,  so the focus  was 
on finding an alternative. He says alternatives  were suggested  either to partially underpin 
his neighbours property  and/or to install a movement joint on the neighbours side of the 
party wall.
Both sides agree that Mr Bs surveyor was tasked with creating an alternative design, which 
would be shared with Zurich  alongside the current proposal. But, to this date, no alternative 
design, report or comments have been  able to be obtained from Mr Bs surveyor.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Bs arguments. Mr B says that Zurichs proposal has been 
designed remotely. But from what Ive seen there  have been a number of site visits across  
several years. Zurich  says its proposal has been developed by a qualified structural engineer,  
reviewed by the national engineering manager of its loss adjuster and signed  off by building 
control. It also says the required  works will be subject to the Party Wall Act, meaning  an 
independent surveyor  will also need to be appointed  to review  and agree the scheme. 
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Bs argument  that he has both local and specific 
knowledge of the two properties and the way theyre moving. While I dont doubt that Mr B 
has carried out extensive research, I dont think it would be fair to ignore the fact that 
Zurichs proposal has been created and designed by suitably qualified  experts.  Im not 
disregarding Mr Bs comments.  But as Im not a structural engineering expert, I need  to 
decide which testimony and evidence I find more  persuasive. And in the absence of further 
technical evidence  from Mr Bs surveyor, Im more  persuaded by the evidence  put forward  
by Zurich and its experts.
Ref: DRN55069617Zurich has put together a proposal  for fully underpinning  Mr Bs property,  to prevent further 
movement on his side. It proposes to sever  the connection between the properties along the 
party wall and install  a movement joint to protect Mr Bs property from further  movement of 
the neighbours property. Mr B says a better  solution would be to extend the underpinning  
beneath his neighbours  property. He says he has successfully gained verbal consent from 
his neighbour  for this. And he is, in his words,  fairly  confident his neighbour will sign a 
document confirming  his consent if Zurich can provide one.
Zurich has stated that it will not consider paying  to underpin the neighbours property as 
Mr Bs policy  doesnt provide cover for that. It says its proposed scheme will stabilise and 
protect Mr Bs property from further movement.
I think Zurich is correct  to say that Mr Bs policy doesnt provide cover  for his neighbours 
property. So, I dont  think it would  be fair to expect  it to carry out such  works unless the only 
way to stabilise  Mr Bs property was to carry out this uninsured work. But the evidence  Ive 
seen suggests  that Zurichs proposal  can achieve this result  without the need  to carry out 
uninsured works or gain contact or consent from the neighbour. And as I said in my 
provisional decision, I think that is key in this case,  given the history  of the claim.
Mr B has suggested that Zurich should  pay for an independent firm of surveyors to review  
both properties  and Zurichs design  proposal,  in order  to find a way forward.  Ive thought 
about this but, as it stands, I dont think it would be fair to expect Zurich to pay for further 
structural reports or designs as I dont  have any clear expert evidence  from Mr B to suggest 
that Zurichs current, updated  proposal  wont deliver a lasting and effective repair. 
Zurich has made numerous attempts over several years to get the vegetation removed  
with no success.  It has sought  legal advice  on its options and decided that the best and most  
appropriate way forward is to design  a scheme  to stabilise Mr Bs property without needing 
to gain access to the neighbours property.  And it has had this scheme designed by suitably 
qualified experts  and amended following the meeting  with Mr Bs surveyor.  In the 
circumstances of Mr Bs case, I dont  think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
reaching its proposed  settlement.
Mr B has stated  that if I dont agree with his alternative proposals, he would  prefer  to move  
forward with the underpinning solution   but without the installation  of a movement joint.  
Zurich has stated that a movement  joint will be needed unless both properties are fully 
underpinned, which isnt covered under the policy. It says the idea of the movement joint is 
to effectively create two detached properties  that can move independently of one another. It 
says that if no movement joint is installed,  the neighbours property will continue to pull on 
Mr Bs property  causing further  damage. So, it wont consider underpinning  Mr Bs property 
without installing the movement joint. I think this is a reasonable position  to take.
Ref: DRN55069618I do appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling  about the movement joints  and his worry that they 
will result in further damage.  But I should  explain that Zurichs responsibility  here is to deliver  
a lasting and effective repair. I think its unlikely Zurich would suggest a course of action that 
it believed would result  in further damage,  as doing so wouldnt be in its interest. Ultimately, 
Zurich has obtained  designs from qualified experts which support that the proposed scheme  
will deliver a lasting and effective repair. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
direct it to do anything different, based on the evidence  available. 
my final decision
Zurich Insurance  PLC has offered to settle Mr Bs claim  by underpinning  his property and 
installing a movement joint on his side of the party wall. I think  this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC should  settle  Mr Bs claim in line with its offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5506961