K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2002. The policy  was free for the first 
six months. After that they paid a monthly  amount of £38.64 for the policy.  The policy  
covered them for accident, sickness and unemployment with a maximum claim benefit of 12 
months per claim. The monthly benefit,  in the event  of a successful claim,  was £800, split 
equally and had a 30 day excess  (waiting)  period.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Im not intending on upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS has shown us copies  of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage paperwork. Within the mortgage 
application that Mr and Mrs M have completed  and signed there  is a section called Your 
mortgage requirements and insurance  needs.
Under this there is a section for PPI called Mortgage Risk Payment . And it states, Do you 
want to add the Mortgage Risk Payment  to your loan amount?  There are three options to 
choose from, yes,  no or N/A. I can see that either no or N/A has been  ticked.  
But I can also see that a separate  PPI application form also had to be completed which 
Mr and Mrs M have  signed. Within this they chose the level of benefit required - £800 and 
that it was to cover them for accident, sickness and unemployment when they could have 
chosen accident and sickness only or unemployment only. They also chose to split the 
benefit equally and with a waiting period of 30 days.
So overall, after taking  all the paperwork into consideration, I think  YBS made Mr and Mrs K 
aware that that it was an optional insurance  and they had a choice  about  buying the PPI. 
And they chose to take it at the level they required.
YBS says that it didnt recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to provide them 
with enough information about  the PPI so they could make an informed choice  as to whether 
they wanted it. But even if YBS had made a formal recommendation  for the policy it seems 
to have been right for them considering their circumstance at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say that they received sick pay from their respective employers that they say 
they could have used to meet their mortgage repayments if they were unable  to work. But 
taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met 
borrowers stand to lose their home. The PPI would have covered the mortgage repayments  
Ref: DRN56528392for up to 12 months for each claim if Mr and Mrs M were  unable to work  because of sickness 
or if they lost their jobs.  All things  considered,  I think the policy provided a useful benefit. 
Its possible YBS didnt point out some of the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr and Mrs M dont  appear to have been  affected by any of those things, so I dont think 
more information  about this would  have changed their minds  and stopped them from taking  
the policy.
I cant be satisfied how clearly the cost of the policy was explained. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable or unsuitable in Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances. And even if everything  had been explained clearly, I think its likely  that they 
still would  have bought it. I say this because it looks like the policy  could have been  useful  to 
them as explained  above.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN56528393my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5652839