K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank  Limited (SG Kleinwort) closed her 
accounts following  a review. And it hasnt satisfactorily explained why it did so. She says this 
caused her distress and inconvenience. And she wants SG Kleinwort to compensate her. 
background
Miss W had a personal and a business  account  with SG Kleinwort.
This decision will deal with Miss Ws complaint  about her business  account.
In November 2017, two payments of £5,700 and £11,700 were credited to Miss Ws personal 
account. Miss W has explained that the payments were for a friend who was working 
temporarily in the UK, and was unable  to open  a bank  account to deposit his earnings. 
Miss W says she intended to withdraw the funds in cash  to give to her friend so that he could  
use the money to pay for expenses. And hed then take the remaining sum home when  he 
left the UK where hed declare the income  as required.
SG Kleinwort reviewed Miss Ws account  and asked her to provide it with information about 
the payments.  In response,  Miss W provided  SG Kleinwort with copies of her friends work 
contract and payslips. She also contacted  her friends HR and personnel department  to 
obtain information about her friends payroll  and sending bank.
On 1 December  2017, SG Kleinwort wrote to Miss W to let her know it had decided to close 
her business  account. SG Kleinwort gave her 60 days notice and asked her to make 
alternative banking  arrangements. Following this, Miss W contacted our service and asked 
us to look into what had happened.  An investigator  looked at Miss Ws complaint. She 
thought SG Kleinwort  had complied with the terms and conditions  when it closed Miss Ws 
account. 
Miss W didnt agree  with the investigators findings. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both SG Kleinwort and Miss W had to 
comply with  say that it could close the accounts  by giving her 60 days  notice. SG 
Kleinwort has done this. So its entitled to close the account as it seems its already  done. 
I know Miss W is unhappy that SG Kleinwort closed her account. But the bank can make 
commercial decisions about  who it offers banking services to. They  cannot  unfairly  
discriminate against  a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do business with 
individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide  who they want to 
contract with. And Im satisfied that the bank has exercised  its commercial  decision 
Ref: DRN56220822legitimately when it decided to close Miss Ws business account. So I cannot fairly and 
reasonably say its done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622082