K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold packaged bank account.
Mr R says that he was led to believe that he had to agree to the Advantage Gold account so 
that he could get a larger overdraft and preferential interest rates  on loans.
Mr R has also complained  about  the overdraft  charges NatWest  applied to his account. He 
says they were unfair and has asked NatWest to refund them.
background
Mr R opened a fee-free  Current Plus account on 9 December  2002. This account was then 
upgraded to a fee-paying  Advantage  Gold packaged  account.
NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account  and transferred all Advantage Gold  
accounts, including Mr Rs, onto a Select  Platinum. As this was essentially a change  in 
account name, weve not treated this as a separate sale.
Mr Rs account was later changed  to a fee-paying Reward Platinum account,  but Mr R hasnt 
complained about this.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the Advantage Gold account 
had been mis-sold. He also didnt think the overdraft  charges were  unfair.  Mr R disagreed 
and asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr Rs complaint. Having done  so, I dont 
think the Advantage Gold packaged account was mis-sold. And I dont think  NatWest  should 
refund the overdraft  charges. I will explain why.
sale of the Advantage Gold account
Ive started by considering whether Mr R was given a clear  choice in agreeing to the 
Advantage Gold account.
Mr R has said that he was mis-sold the Advantage Gold account to get a greater overdraft 
limit and to get personal loans, as well as preferential rates on overdrafts. However I can see 
that before Mr R agreed to the Advantage Gold account, hed increased  his overdraft limit 
from £50 around seven times. The limit was ultimately increased to £2,200 on 21 March 
2007, not long before the Advantage  Gold was sold to him in May 2007. Given all of this, I 
think that Mr R was aware that he didnt have to have a packaged  account  to increase his 
overdraft and that he could keep his fee-free Current Plus account if he wanted to.
Ref: DRN50587022In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr R said he was told agreeing to the account 
would improve his credit  score,  although  I cant see that he has raised this specific point 
before. Nevertheless,  I appreciate that improving his credit score  mightve  been  important  to 
him at the time. But equally,  I can see that shortly after the upgrade  Mr R applied for a 
£15,000 loan,  but it was declined. He then applied for a £2,000 loan, which  was accepted.  
And Mr R was heavily using his overdraft as well. So given the amount  of money Mr R 
intended to borrow  from NatWest and was borrowing  on his overdraft, I think  its more likely 
that he agreed to the Advantage Gold account  because it provided reduced interest rates  on 
loans and overdrafts,  rather than because he was misled into thinking that he had to 
upgrade his account to improve his credit score. So overall I think  that Mr R was given a fair 
choice to take out the Advantage Gold account and he chose  to take it, knowing he didnt 
have to.
NatWest says that the Advantage Gold account was sold to Mr R on a non-advised basis.  
This means  that NatWest explains what benefits are included  with the account and then its 
up to the consumer to decide whether to upgrade or not. Mr R has said that he was advised  
to take it. But, based  on what Mr R has said, Im not persuaded that NatWest assessed his 
circumstances and recommended  the account  because it had identified Mr R had a 
particular need  for it. So I think  that the account was likely  to have been sold on a non-
advised basis. This means  NatWest didnt have to check if it was right for Mr R, but it still 
had to give him the important information about the account, so he could decide for himself  if 
it would  be worth taking.
Mr R says that it was sold to him to get a reduced rate of interest  on his overdraft and loans. 
And the Advantage Gold account provided  both of these  benefits at the time. So he was 
clearly given information about those  benefits during the sale of the account.  
Mr R says he wasnt told about the other benefits  on the account. He says he was already 
paying for RAC breakdown cover and ProtectYourBubble mobile phone insurance and was 
therefore duplicating cover, as these were  both benefits of the Advantage Gold account. But 
Ive looked at Mr Rs bank statements and cannot  see payments for either 
ProtectYourBubble or RAC around the time that the Advantage Gold  account was sold.  And 
as far as I can see, breakdown cover  wasnt a benefit of the account  in May 2007  it was 
added later. Nevertheless, I can see that Mr R went on to register  a number of mobile 
phones from 2009. So I dont think Mr R wouldve  acted any differently had he been given 
more information  about the Advantage Gold account   particularly as the banking benefits 
appear to have been the main reason why he agreed to the account.
Based on what Mr R has said it seems that, with the benefit of hindsight, he now thinks that 
the Advantage Gold account has been poor value for money and therefore now wants a 
refund of his account fees. And whilst that maybe the case, that doesnt  mean  that NatWest 
was wrong or acting  unfairly to have sold the Advantage  Gold account to him at the time.
unfair overdraft charges
Mr R has also complained  about  overdraft charges that were  applied to his account. He says 
that because of how much he was being  charged, it worsened his financial position. 
I have looked  at his account statements and can see that over the years Mr R paid a large 
amount of overdraft charges. So I appreciate why hes unhappy, given how much hes had to 
pay over the years.
Ref: DRN50587023However, a Supreme Court ruling in 2009 says that bank charges cant be challenged on the 
basis that theyre too high. They can only be challenged  if theyve been  applied incorrectly, 
against the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs bank  account set out the charges NatWest could apply if 
the overdraft was used, or if the agreed limit was exceeded. And Ive seen from the 
statements Mr R used his overdraft regularly  and often  exceeded his agreed limit which  led 
to unarranged overdraft charges also being  applied  to his account.  And from what  Ive seen, 
NatWest applied those  charges in line with the account terms and conditions. Because of 
this, Im unable to ask NatWest to refund the overdraft charges that were applied to Mr Rs 
account.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the Advantage Gold 
account to Mr R and I dont think it should refund Mr R the overdraft charges it applied  whilst 
he held the account.
I appreciate that Mr R may be disappointed by this decision, but I hope I have been able to 
explain to him why I dont  uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5058702