K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that MYJAR Limited gave him loans that he couldnt  afford. The complaint is
brought to this service on Mr Hs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I
shall refer to all actions  below being  taken by Mr H.
background
Mr H took out one payday loan and three instalment  loans with MYJAR as follows:-
Loan number  and 
type of loanDate of Loan Loan repayment amount 
including interestRepayment date
1. Instalment 17/09/2015 6 monthly repayments  of 
around £125.7706/01/2016
2. Payday 1/02/2016 131.20 12/02/2016
3. Instalment 11/03/2016 3 monthly repayments  of 
around £18717/06/2016
4. Instalment 10/09/2016 6 monthly repayments  of 
around £108.9128/10/2016
Mr H said that he was stuck in a cycle  of borrowing and dependency on credit. He used
loans to pay priority bills and struggled with day to day living  costs.
MYJAR said that it had asked Mr H for his income and regular expenditure and conducted a
credit check.  It also took into account a minimum amount  for household expenditure and
Mr Hs borrowing from other lenders. MYJAR  said that it concluded from its affordability
checks that repaying the loans wouldnt have become difficult  for Mr H.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She said that
MYJARs checks went far enough as the loan repayments werent a significant proportion of
Mr Hs income.  She said that Mr Hs declared disposable income was reasonable to repay
the loan repayments.
Mr H disagreed and responded to say that he had applied for the loans to repay  the interest
on borrowing from other payday lenders. He also borrowed to buy food and pay bills. He was
in a difficult financial situation when he applied for MYJARs loans. His first three loans were
taken within  a short time of each other. His bank statements  would have shown that he was
unable to repay the interest on the loans. He had to get a second job in order to repay his
loans. The high interest rate on the loans  made  the situation worse.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to MYJAR on 15 May 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Id noted that MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to make 
sure Mr H could  afford to repay the loans  before  it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, the length of the loan
agreement and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks MYJAR had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mr H took his loans
Ref: DRN52880022from MYJAR.  Its regulations for lenders are set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
These regulations  require  lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability 
to meet  repayments  under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The FCA defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It
says this means borrowers should  be able to make their repayments on time and out of their
income and savings without having  to borrow to meet  these repayments.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr H. Id noted from MYJARs
records that it had details of Mr Hs income  as well as details about his housing  costs, other
monthly expenses and other credit commitments. MYJAR had used statistical  expenditure 
data and revised Mr Hs stated outgoings upwards to take account of these.  Id also noted  
that MYJAR  had carried out a credit check and had seen a summary  of the credit checks  for  
the loans.
Id thought about whether  MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loan 1, Mr H had needed to make six monthly  repayments of varying amounts up to 
£125.77 to repay it. I could see that the repayments were relatively modest compared to the 
income of £1,400 and the expenditure  of £200 for rent Mr H had declared to MYJAR. No 
other expenditure amounts had been provided even though Id noted that MYJAR had asked 
for information about other credit  commitments and other outgoings.
But Id noted that MYJARs credit check showed hed opened four new accounts in the 
previous three months and that his account  balances had increased on two accounts in the 
previous three months. I could see that Mr Hs other  borrowing might have suggested to 
MYJAR that his finances were under pressure. But at this early stage in Mr Hs borrowing 
history with MYJAR, Id thought the information MYJAR obtained from Mr H was enough for 
MYJAR to rely on at the time of Mr Hs first loan application. He hadnt  borrowed from 
MYJAR before, and the repayment amounts appeared sustainable in comparison to the 
amount of disposable  income that hed provided to MYJAR. So Id thought it was reasonable 
for MYJAR  to give Mr H, Loan 1 without carrying out further  checks.
Mr H had repaid Loan 1 early and took out Loan 2 almost four weeks after repaying Loan 1. 
The loan amount had reduced  to £100  repayable in one amount of £131.20.  Mr Hs
declared income was still £1,400 but his declared  expenditure had increased to also include
other credit commitments of £250. Id also noted that MYJARs credit check  showed that 
Mr H had taken out seven new credit accounts in the previous three months and balances 
on four of his accounts had increased in the last three months. It also appeared that his 
unsecured debt had increased by almost £900  since hed taken out Loan 1. Id thought  that it 
was possible that some of the unsecured credit balances might have included  payday loans. 
But this wasnt clear  to me from the credit check results.  Whilst Mr H had declared other 
credit commitments  of £250  to MYJAR,  Id thought  the results of its credit  check  might have 
suggested to MYJAR  that Mr H was spending more  on credit commitments than hed 
declared to it. And so he might have had a substantially smaller disposable income than hed 
declared. So, in view of the results  of the credit  check, Id thought it would have been 
proportionate for MYJAR to have gathered information about what  the credit check had 
shown. I cant see that it had did this.
Mr H borrowed  Loan 3 around a month after repaying Loan  2. The loan amount  had
increased to £350  and the highest monthly  repayment over the three  months repayment
period had increased to around £187.
Ref: DRN52880023Id again thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate before Loan 3. Mr Hs
declared monthly income was still £1,400. But his regular expenditure had significantly
decreased. The rent amount had halved and Mr Hs other credit commitments  had reduced
to £50 and hed said that his other  commitments  were £50. Id thought the large  decrease  in 
rent and other expenditure might have again  prompted MYJAR to ask more questions  about 
the reasons for the decrease, even though Mr H appeared to have sufficient  disposable 
income to repay the loan.
Id also seen the results  of MYJARs  credit  check.  In particular Id noted that the check  
showed that Mr H had opened  two new credit accounts in the previous three months.  In view 
of the increased  loan repayments which needed to be sustained over three months and the 
uncertainty over the accuracy of Mr Hs expenditure, overall Id thought MYJAR again
ought to have gathered information  about  what the credit check  showed as well as the
reasons for the decrease in his expenditure. I couldnt see that it had done  this.
Mr H borrowed  Loan 4 just less than three months  after repaying Loan 3. The loan amount
was still £350  and the highest monthly repayment  over the six months  repayment  period
had decreased to around £109.
Id again thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate before Loan 4. Mr Hs
declared monthly income had increased to £1,500,  and his declared regular expenditure was
still £200.
Id also seen the results  of MYJARs  credit  check.  In particular Id noted that the check  
showed that Mr H had opened  two new credit accounts in the previous three months.  But Id 
thought MYJAR  ought to have been  concerned as to why a person with an apparently
relatively high level of disposable  income was coming back  to it for a third loan in seven
months. I thought that behaviour might have caused some concerns  to MYJAR. It might 
have suggested  to MYJAR that Mr H was using short  term loans as a supplement to his 
normal income, rather than using them to meet a temporary one-off problem, and that his 
finances were likely to be under  some pressure. So, although Id thought  it was still 
reasonable for MYJAR  to rely on the information  Mr H had declared to it, Id thought MYJAR  
should have additionally asked him some very specific questions about  any other short term 
lending he already had outstanding. I couldnt  see that it had done  this.
Although I didnt think the checks MYJAR  had done  for Loans 2 to 4 were sufficient, that in 
itself didnt mean that Mr Hs complaint about  these loans should  succeed. I also needed to 
see whether what I considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown MYJAR that 
Mr H couldnt sustainably  afford Loans  2 to 4.
I would normally have  done this by looking at Mr Hs credit  report  and the bank statements 
for the account  into which the loans were  paid. As these hadnt been  sent to us, I asked the
adjudicator to ask Mr Hs claims management  company to provide us with a copy  of Mr Hs
bank statements and his credit report.  These were then sent to us.
Loan 2
As Id said above,  I would have expected MYJAR to ask Mr H some  questions about what
its credit  check  showed, whilst  taking account  of Mr Hs declared  disposable  income of £950
including other  credit commitments of £250.  So Id tried to find out more  about this by
looking at Mr Js credit report and bank  statements for the month  prior to the loan,  to see
Ref: DRN52880024what better checks would  have suggested  to MYJAR. Id noted from Mr Hs credit report  that 
he was due to make monthly repayments  of around £206 on one loan. And I could see these 
on Mr Hs bank statements but it didnt  appear from these that Mr H was paying any other
regular financial commitments  (other than to mobile phone providers). Taking account of the
credit commitments  of £250  which Mr H had declared and the credit  repayments shown on 
his credit report and bank statements, I didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve
uncovered anything that wouldve stopped MYJAR  from giving the loan to Mr H. So, I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Loan  2.
Loan 3
As Id said above,  I would have expected MYJAR to ask Mr H some  questions about what
its credit  check  showed and to ask about his decreased regular outgoings. So Id tried to
find out more  about  this by looking at Mr Js credit report and bank statements for the month
prior to the loan,  to see what better checks would have  suggested  to MYJAR. Id noted from
Mr Hs credit report that he was still due to make  monthly repayments  of around £206 on one
loan. I could see these  on Mr Hs bank  statements  but it didnt appear from the statements
that Mr H was paying any other regular financial commitments (other  than to mobile phone
providers). I also couldnt see from the bank statements that Mr H was paying  most of the 
usual living costs I would normally expect to have seen such  as rent, council tax and utilities  
(other than mobile phone). Taking  account  of this and the credit commitments  of £50 which  
Mr H had declared and the credit  repayments shown on his credit report  and bank 
statements, I again didnt  think  that carrying out better checks  wouldve uncovered anything 
that wouldve  stopped MYJAR  from giving the loan to Mr H. So, I didnt intend to uphold  
Mr Hs complaint about Loan 3.
Loan 4
As Id said above,  I would have expected MYJAR to ask Mr H some  questions about his
other short term lending,  whilst taking  account of Mr Hs declared disposable income of
£1,300 including other credit commitments  of £50. So Id tried to find out more about this by
looking at Mr Js credit report and bank  statements for the month  prior to the loan,  to see
what better checks would  have suggested  to MYJAR. Id noted from Mr Hs credit report  that 
hed taken out two short term loans in the month prior to Loan 4 which were due to be repaid
around the same time as Loan 4. The monthly  repayments on these were  around £175.
Mr H was also due to make monthly repayments of around £206 on another  loan. Taking
account of Mr Hs declared disposable  income and the total monthly short term lending
commitments of around £381, I didnt think that carrying out better  checks wouldve
uncovered anything that wouldve stopped MYJAR  from giving the loan to Mr H. So, I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Loan  4.
So I thought  that MYJAR  could have reasonably decided that Loans 2 to 4 were sustainable 
if it had carried out additional and proportionate affordability checks before lending. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr H or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Neither Mr H nor MYJAR  has responded to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN52880025my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that neither  Mr H nor MYJAR  has given me anything further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  It follows  that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5288002