K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that American  Express Services  Europe  Limited  hasnt paid her 
cashback on her credit  card.
background
Mrs K took out a credit card with Amex in October 2017. It was possible for her to earn 
cashback by using her card which would be paid to her after twelve  months.  In October 2018 
Amex told Mrs K she hadnt earned  any cashback  because shed spent less than £3,000 on 
her card during the year.
Mrs K complained to Amex. She said she wasnt told she had to spend £3000 to earn 
cashback when  she opened the account.  Amex didnt uphold her complaint.  It said the terms 
and conditions of the account  required her to spend  a minimum of £3,000 during the year in 
order to earn cashback. As she had spent less than £3,000 she wasnt entitled to receive 
any cashback.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with Amexs response  and referred her complaint  to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mrs K should 
have been aware  of the cashback requirements.  Mrs K didnt accept our adjudicators 
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K applied for her card on-line and she would  have had to confirm  that she agreed to the 
terms and conditions as part of her application.  These set out the requirement for a minimum 
spend of £3,000 during  a twelve month  period in order to earn cashback. Amex  also sent 
Mrs K a credit card agreement when it opened her account. The agreement set out the 
cashback terms and conditions including the requirement for a minimum  spend.
The monthly account statements Amex sent to Mrs K also said she needed to have  made 
purchases on her card account  of at least £3,000 during the year to be eligible to receive 
cashback. Mrs K says she didnt receive  statements every month as she wasnt using her 
card. But Ive seen  a statement containing  the above wording  which was sent to her.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied Amex  took reasonable steps to bring the cashback  
requirements to Mrs Ks attention and she should  have  been aware of the need to spend  at 
least £3,000 to earn cashback. As Mrs K only spent £2,000  on her card during the year 
Amex was reasonably  entitled not to pay her any cashback.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against American Express Services Europe  Limited.
Ref: DRN52036422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5203642