K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs B a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs B took out a loan in 1995, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 The PPI was taken  out many  years ago and because of this theres little information 
available from the time.  So I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any 
discussions. But, on balance, I think its likely  Lloyds Bank made Mrs B aware the PPI 
was optional and that she chose to take it out. I say this because  there  is some  
evidence of the type of loan document used at the time, which showed the PPI as 
optional. 
 It seems  that Lloyds Bank advised Mrs B to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The policy  
offered a benefit if Mrs B was made redundant. And, although Mrs B would have 
received employer sick pay, the accident and sickness benefit provided  by the policy  
could still have been  useful. This is because it would pay out on top off any employer 
sick pay and potentially  would continue to pay out after sick pay ended.  It would also 
pay out on top of any redundancy  payment. And it seems Mrs B didnt have other 
significant means  to fall back on. Mrs B appeared to have been eligible for the policy;  
and it seems also wouldnt  have  been  affected  by any significant exclusions within the 
policy.
 Mrs B would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Mrs B. 
 Its possible  the information Lloyds Bank gave Mrs B about the PPI, including about the 
costs and benefits, wasnt as clear  as it should  have been.  But Mrs B chose to take out 
the policy and so appears to have wanted  this type of cover.  Also the policy seems to 
Ref: DRN58534292have been affordable for Mrs B. And taking into account her circumstances, I think  it 
unlikely shed have  made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
 Its possible that Lloyds Bank  didnt clearly point out what  the PPI wouldnt cover  but I 
cant see that Mrs B would have been  significantly affected  by this. 
On balance, I think Mrs B wasnt mis-sold  PPI by Lloyds Bank.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5853429