K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited wont refund six card payments that he says he didnt 
authorise.
background
Mr G was visiting a bar in Riga, Latvia, late at night.  His MBNA credit card was used for six 
purchases over a period of about  three  hours, five at one bar and the last one at a bar next 
door. Each payment was for a similar  amount   around €200, although the last was for a 
little less  and together, after currency conversion,  they totalled  just over £1,000.
Mr G flew back to the UK later the same  day (the last payment was made at 2.43am). He 
identified the payments  some days later and contacted MBNA about them. 
MBNA looked into what had happened  but didnt agree  to refund any of the payments. It said 
that they had all been made using Mr Gs genuine card and PIN; Mr G had acknowledged 
that hed been in the bar and that he still had his card. MBNA also contacted the bar and the 
club and obtained  receipts for some of the payments. It concluded  that Mr G had made  the 
payments and that there was, therefore, no basis on which  it should refund them.
Mr G didnt accept MBNAs  findings and asked that this service review the matter. One of 
our investigators considered the case but thought  it was likely that Mr G was responsible for 
the payments.   He didnt think MBNA  should refund them. Mr G asked that an ombudsman  
review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions.  
MBNAs records show that Mr Gs genuine  card was used with the correct PIN for each 
payment, and I accept  that it was. That doesnt  necessarily  mean  that Mr G made  the 
transactions himself,  but it is, I think, quite persuasive  especially since he still had his card 
later on. It wasnt stolen or lost. 
Mr G acknowledges that he visited a club, although his recollection  of events is a little vague. 
I note that payments were made to two different merchants, although they were very near 
each other  and may even have been  part of the same establishment. I dont believe thats of 
any real significance here, therefore. 
Mr G has referred  to online  reviews of the bar, which  report that customers  have  been  
overcharged and, in some  cases, drugged. Such  reviews arent  necessarily reliable, of 
course, but neither are they irrelevant. There is however no evidence to suggest  that Mr G 
was drugged. I think its likely that he may have been overcharged, in the sense that he paid 
more than he was expecting to pay. Its possible too that he didnt realise  how much he was 
paying and that, if he had, he might  have acted differently. 
Overall, however, I think the evidence indicates  strongly that Mr G did make the payments 
himself. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require MBNA  to refund them.  
Ref: DRN56560362my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require MBNA Limited to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before  8 November  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5656036