K820x#14Complaint
Mr Q complains about The Mortgage  Works (UK) Plcs (TMW) handling of two buy-to-let 
mortgage applications. 
Background
In May 2018, Mr Q decided to redeem his existing buy-to-let mortgage  with TMW  in relation 
to property A and apply  for a new one. He sent the application for the new mortgage  and the 
funds required to redeem  the existing one to TMW on the same day. TMW  responded to 
Mr Qs broker  to say it had instructed  a valuation report, subject to an assessment by an 
underwriter. 
Mr Q says that a surveyor then contacted his tenant  and arranged an appointment for the 
following day, but never showed up and stopped answering his phone. Mr Q therefore  
contacted TMW to check on the progress of his application. TMW  said it had cancelled it 
because the original mortgage  wasnt showing as redeemed  on its system. And it had 
informed Mr Qs broker of this at the time of the cancellation. TMW  reinstated the 
application, but later cancelled  it again  in error. Mr Q completed the remortgage in 
November 2018.      
Around the same time, Mr Q applied for a buy-to-let mortgage in relation to another  property  
(property B) that he was interested in buying.  TMW again instructed a valuation report. 
Once it had been completed, TMW told Mr Qs broker  that it would confirm the maximum it 
could lend within two working days. But it didnt confirm its mortgage offer until over a week 
later, by which time the property  had already been  sold to another  bidder at auction.  
Mr Q complained to TMW. In relation to property A, he said that his tenant had taken a day 
off work to let the surveyor in, only for him not to show  up. And he was unhappy that his 
application had been delayed. Mr Q felt that to put things right, TMW  should waive the 
product fee for his new buy-to-let mortgage. In relation  to property B, he said that TMWs 
offer hadnt  been issued until after the auction. So hed lost out on buying the property and 
the profit he would have made  from it. And hed spent money  going  to inspect property B 
before the auction, which he thought TMW should  reimburse. 
In relation to property  A, TMW  said that it had done  the right thing by cancelling  Mr Qs 
application until the redemption of his existing buy-to-let mortgage was complete. In relation 
to property B, TMW apologised for its handling of Mr Qs application. It said it hadnt been  
able to meet  the two day timeframe because  it had to go back the surveyor  for more 
information about nearby mining  works. But it said it couldnt be sure Mr Q would have won 
the bidding at auction anyway. So it didnt reimburse his lost profits  or costs.  It offered Mr Q 
£125 compensation. 
Mr Q remained  unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator  looked 
into Mr Qs complaint, and overall felt TMW had made a fair offer.  As Mr Q didnt agree, he 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
I came  to the same conclusion as our investigator. But as I introduced some additional 
reasoning, I shared this with Mr Q and gave him a further opportunity to comment. Ive 
included an anonymised extract below: 
Ref: DRN50329222Property A 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think TMW has been  able to show that cancelling this 
application was justified. 
The conditions of Mr Qs new mortgage  offer just say that he needed to have redeemed  his 
existing mortgage  on or before completing the new one. So it shouldnt have mattered that 
the redemption  funds werent showing  on TMWs  systems when it first reviewed his 
application. Ive therefore thought carefully about how this error has impacted Mr Q.  
Ive noted what  Mr Q has said about the impact  this had on his tenant. But Im not able to 
make an award for trouble  and upset suffered by a third party.  Mr Q says he had to deal with 
some backlash from his tenant when the surveyor didnt show up. Looking at TMWs  system 
notes, it didnt review Mr Qs application  and cancel it until around 4.30 on the day he says 
the valuation was scheduled  in for, by which  time the working  day was already almost  over.  
So although  I think TMW did the wrong  thing  by cancelling the application,  I think  its 
probably coincidental that this happened  on the same day the surveyor  hadnt shown up. 
I havent seen  any evidence which persuades me that the two events were connected. 
I think the surveyor probably wasnt going to attend  that day anyway, and I cant hold TMW 
responsible for that as the surveyor worked for an independent firm. 
Notwithstanding the issues with the surveyor, I can see TMW didnt  reinstate  Mr Qs 
application for a few days, which meant the valuation was pushed  back by about  a week. 
And its unfortunate that it then cancelled the application in error again around a month  later, 
and didnt reinstate  it for another week. 
I appreciate that must have been  frustrating for Mr Q. But it looks  like he then waited several 
months before completing on the mortgage.  In that context, while I recognise TMW  clearly 
made some mistakes  here, I dont think they had an impact on the overall timescales within  
which Mr Q completed  on his new mortgage. 
For these reasons, while I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr Q, Im 
not intending to ask TMW to pay him any additional compensation in relation  to his 
application for Property A. 
Im also not intending  to direct TMW to refund the product fee he paid for the new mortgage. 
Thats because I need to put him back in the position he would have been in if nothing  had 
gone wrong. The product fee was always going  to be payable,  even if TMW hadnt cancelled  
the application twice in error. And Mr Q has now completed on the new mortgage and 
received the product he wanted.  So I dont think it would  be fair or proportionate  to ask TMW 
to waive  the product fee. 
Property B 
I understand how frustrating it must have been  to receive a mortgage offer after the property 
had already been sold at auction.  But TMW was entitled to carry out a valuation  to check 
that the property  provided adequate security for the amount Mr Q wanted to borrow. 
And I dont  think the time it took to confirm its mortgage offer,  less than three  weeks  from the 
date it received Mr Qs application,  was unreasonable. Based on what  Mr Q has told us, 
there was only seven working days between TMW receiving his application and the auction.
Ref: DRN50329223Its true that TMW didnt  meet  its promise to confirm its mortgage  offer within two working 
days of receiving the valuation report.  And Ive kept this in mind  when  assessing  TMWs 
compensation offer. But I dont think this is what led to Mr Q not being able to bid for the 
property at auction. 
Looking at the timeline Mr Q has presented, the auction took place on the same day TMW  
made its promise to confirm its mortgage offer within two working  days. That means  that 
even if TMW had met the two day timeframe, the property would already have been sold. 
As a result of that, I dont  think  it would  be fair to ask TMW  to reimburse Mr Q for any losses 
flowed from his inability  to purchase the property at auction. 
I think its also fair to say that even if I thought TMW should have been able to produce  its 
mortgage offer more  quickly,  given the nature of an auction, I could  never realistically be 
satisfied that Mr Q would have won the bidding.  
For these reasons, Im not intending  to ask TMW to increase its offer of £125 compensation 
in relation to Mr Qs application for Property B. 
Mr Qs response 
Mr Q responded to say that he disagreed with my findings. He continued to feel that TMW  
had caused him distress  both directly and via his tenant in relation to Property  A. And he 
said he sent the application  for Property B in good time before the auction. He wasnt in a 
position to partake in the bidding without confirmation that TMW  would lend him the funds. 
He thought TMW should cover his time, fuel and accommodation costs. He thought  it should 
also compensate him for his stress, and the time he spent presenting his complaint. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Qs application for Property  A 
Im still not persuaded that the backlash  Mr Q faced from his tenant flowed from the 
cancellation of the mortgage application by TMW. TMW didnt cancel the application until 
4:30 on the day Mr Q says the independent surveyor  arranged an appointment. So I think its 
unlikely this was the reason the surveyor didnt turn up.  
While I accept TMW cancelled Mr Qs application  twice in error, it rectified both cancellations 
within around a week.  As Mr Q waited several months to complete on the mortgage,  I dont 
think the cancellations delayed things overall.
Mr Qs application for Property  B
I havent reached a finding that the time TMW  took to carry out a valuation  on Property B 
was unreasonable, especially given that the valuation was complicated by the propertys 
proximity to former mining operations. So Im not asking TMW to reimburse Mr Q for any 
losses associated with his inability to participate at the auction.  This includes any costs  he 
incurred going  to inspect the property beforehand. Thats because these losses  dont flow 
from any wrongdoing on TMWs  part. 
Ref: DRN50329224Mr Q says he spent a lot of time typing, researching and presenting  his case to us. But this 
isnt something wed generally make  an award for. Our service  was set up as an informal  
way of resolving complaints, and we dont require  consumers  to make detailed  
representations or legal arguments. So I dont think it would be fair to ask TMW to 
compensate Mr Q for the time he spent  preparing his complaint  and presenting it to us. 
My final decision
I am aware  that The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc has made an offer to pay £125  
compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My decision  is that the The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc should pay Mr Q £125  if it hasnt  
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019. 
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5032922