K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the rate of interest that she was offered when  she applied for a loan 
online with Bank  of Ireland (UK) plc, trading  as Post Office Money.
 
background
Mrs M made  an online application for a loan from Post Office  Money in October 2018 in 
response to adverts  which showed a representative rate of interest of 3.1%. She says that 
she made a preliminary  application and was quoted an interest  rate of 3.2% for a loan of 
£13,500 repayable over five years. She says that she then made a loan application (which 
was accepted)  but the loan amount  was £14,800  and the interest rate was 7.9%.  She 
complained to Post Office Money  but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this 
service. 
She says that Post Office  Money should  be disciplined  for not following good practice, 
legislation, corporate  guidelines, ombudsman rules,  rules  on allocation  of loans and rates,  
rules on publishing and making  information  available as to how many  achieved the 
advertised banner rate and rules  on credit scoring. And she says that its online application 
process should be changed  to allow cancellation before acceptance once rates  have been 
established and that it should  publish its acceptance  at banner rates information on its 
website. Mrs M cancelled  the loan but she says that it took two weeks  to do so.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
information about Post Office Moneys lending practice that Mrs M had requested was 
commercially sensitive  so it wasnt unreasonable that it wouldnt give her that information as 
there was no obligation  for it to do so (and this service cant  compel  it to disclose that 
information). He said that a bank will use a credit scoring system to decide a rate and he 
didnt agree that Post Office Money  had acted unreasonably as the advertised  rate was only 
representative and was subject to change.
Mrs M has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that Post 
Office Money has been obfuscating the facts  and hiding behind the commercially sensitive 
statement - using it to conceal  its hiking of rates unfairly and without explanation - given her 
excellent credit rating and a 9.5/10 on its own scoring system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses so Im unable to require any of them  to change  the 
way that it conducts  its business. And our role isnt to punish a business  if its done 
something wrong.
Post Office  Moneys loan application  website  says:
Your personal rate will depend  on the loan amount, the loan terms and your 
personal circumstances;
Ref: DRN56696322The interest rate offered  on assessment  may differ and the representative  rate may 
not be the rate that you receive. The rate you are offered  will depend on a number of 
factors including the amount you wish to borrow, your chosen term, your personal 
circumstances and your credit rating. The maximum APR you could  be offered is 
28.9%; and
The APR you receive may vary from the advertised  rate. This is the representative 
rate which we expect  most people who apply to get. The rate you are offered will be 
a personalised  rate based on your current individual circumstances including credit  
information held about you by the credit reference  agencies, the loan amount you 
borrow and the length of time you borrow for.
So I consider that Mrs M knew   or ought reasonably to have known  that the rate that she 
would be offered might be different to the advertised  rate. The information that Mrs M has 
asked for about  Post Office Moneys lending practice is commercially sensitive information.  
And I find that theres no requirement for it to provide that information to Mrs M - and that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to do so.
Post Office  Money says that the loan application that was made by Mrs M was for £14,800 
over 60 months  and that thats  the basis on which the application was accepted. And it 
says that it was only Mrs M who couldve entered the amount of the loan.
When Mrs M became aware  that the interest rate of her loan was 7.9% she cancelled the 
loan and complained to Post Office  Money.  Im not persuaded that shes suffered any 
financial loss as a result of her loan application (and cancellation). Nor am I persuaded that 
shes provided enough information to show that the loan application or the loan cancellation  
has adversely affected her credit rating.
Im unable to require Post Office Money to change its online loan application process.  And I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Post Office  
Money to pay any compensation to Mrs M  or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5669632