K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  about being charged by Lex Autolease  Ltd (LAL)  for the late return of his 
vehicle. Hes concerned  about the impact those charges have on his credit file. 
background
Mr M entered into a lease  agreement with LAL on 28 October 2016. The lease was for 
24 months. Because the vehicle wasnt retuned on time, LAL extended  the lease and 
charged Mr M for the additional  period. 
On 14 January 2019 Mr M emailed LAL to complain. He said hed been  trying to contact 
them by phone since October 2018 to arrange  return of the vehicle but hadnt been able to 
speak to anyone. He was also unhappy that he was now liable for payments because  of an 
extension to the lease which hed not agreed to. 
LAL didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said it was his responsibility  to organise the return  
of the vehicle before the lease expired.  And they had no evidence hed tried to do that. 
LAL arranged for collection  of the vehicle on 15 March 2019. Mr M has an outstanding  debt 
to LAL which  includes  the additional rent, excess mileage charge and a vehicle condition  
charge. Because Mr M hasnt paid whats  owed,  this has been recorded  on his credit  file. 
Mr M was unhappy with LALs handling  of his complaint and so referred  it to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He felt LAL had acted 
in line with the terms and condition of the lease agreement. And he hadnt seen any 
evidence to show Mr M had been unable to contact LAL to return  the vehicle before the 
lease expired. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  findings,  so the case  has been passed to me for a 
final decision. Mr M said:
LAL were difficult to get hold of by phone;
nowhere in the lease  agreement does it say hes responsible for returning the 
vehicle;
LAL made no contact  with him about  returning the vehicle, nor did it provide 
information on how to do so;
LAL delivered the car to his driveway  and thats where he left it  so he felt he had 
returned the vehicle; 
LAL never told him late payments would be recorded on his credit  file;
LAL shouldnt have had the information recorded on his credit file as the matter is in 
dispute;
LAL changed the terms of the lease  agreement whilst he had the vehicle, but never  
told him; and
he accepts he should pay for the excess mileage and one months  extended lease 
due to his holiday,  but disputes the rest of the charges, including the one for damage 
to the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN59868342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as our investigator.  
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it, but because I dont  think I need  to comment  on it to reach what  I think is 
the right outcome.
I know my decision not to uphold this complaint  will be disappointing for Mr M. But Id like to 
take some  time to explain  how Ive reached my decision.  
Responsibility to return the vehicle 
Ive seen a copy  of the lease agreement Mr M signed on 28 October 2016. Ive seen  no 
evidence to support  Mr Ms view that the terms of the lease changed whilst he had the 
vehicle. 
Under section 9 of the agreement it says the following:
9. RETURN OF GOODS
(a)You must return  the Goods to us when the hiring under this agreement ends.
(b)The Goods must  be returned  at your expense to any location  in the United Kingdom 
that we reasonably specify 

(f)If you fail to return the Goods when required   You must also continue to pay us 
sums equal to the rentals that applied immediately  before the termination of the 
hiring.
Mr M says LAL didnt contact him about  returning the vehicle until he prompted them  to do 
so. 
I think the agreement  term is clear that the vehicle must be returned by the customer  when 
the agreement  ends  in Mr Ms case, by 28 October 2018. LAL collected  the vehicle from 
Mr M on 15 March  2019. Because of that, section (f) of the term applies. 
The term isnt specific about  how to organise the return of the vehicle. But I think theres a 
clear intention that You, the customer,  is responsible for instigating  that return  at their 
expense. So, I dont think LAL was required to contact Mr M about  the return of the vehicle 
until prompted to do so by him. And I dont  accept Mr Ms argument  that by the car being left 
on his driveway, where LAL delivered  it to, that hes met his obligation to return  the vehicle. 
The lease agreement  is clear that returning of the vehicle, whether thats returned by the 
customer or collected by LAL, means  its no longer  in the customers possession. 
LALs handling of Mr Ms request to return  the vehicle 
Mr M says he tried to arrange  collection of the vehicle before the agreement  ended.  But 
because of poor customer service by LAL, namely that he was unable to get through  to them 
on the phone, he was unable to do so.
Ref: DRN59868343If Mr M did try to arrange the return of the vehicle before the lease ended, but mistakes by 
LAL directly caused the delay in the vehicle being returned, then I can understand Mr Ms 
frustration at being charged. So, Ive looked carefully at what  happened here and if theres  
any evidence to support  Mr Ms position. 
I can see that both LAL and our investigator asked  Mr M for evidence  to show that he 
contacted LAL before  the agreement ended, and that he was unable to arrange  collection of 
the car because his calls were not dealt with promptly. That evidence  hasnt been provided. 
I dont dispute  what Mr M is saying, but without evidence to support it, I cant  make a finding 
in his favour. It was Mr Ms responsibility  to arrange the return of the vehicle. So, if he was 
having difficulty contacting LAL over the phone,  he couldve  emailed them, as he did on 
14 January 2019.  So, I dont think LAL did anything wrong here. 
Ive looked at the way LAL communicated  with Mr M after his 14 January  2019 email. I can 
see from LALs internal  records that they promptly contacted  him by email and phone  to 
arrange the collection of the vehicle. There was some delay in arranging a collection date 
with Mr M, but this seems  to be due to Mr Ms availability, not because of poor handling by 
LAL. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied  theres  no evidence that mistakes by LAL resulted  in 
the late return of Mr Ms vehicle. 
charges and credit report 
The lease agreement  term Ive quoted  above is clear that the late return  of the vehicle will 
result in the customer having to pay for the additional rental. Theres no requirement within  
the lease agreement that LAL needs  the customers consent to do that. So, because  Mr M 
returned the vehicle late, LAL was entitled to charge him for the additional  rent. 
I can see LAL has agreed to waive one months rent as a good will gesture and Mr M has 
told us that hes happy to pay for another month due to him being on holiday. He also 
accepts that hes liable  for the excess mileage fee. 
Mr M might want to speak to LAL about the exact  amount  outstanding.  His dispute over the 
vehicle damage  charge  is a new issue that Im not able to look at as part of this review. Mr M 
would need to raise  this with LAL first, and if he remains unhappy, then he could ask our 
service to consider  it. 
Mr M is also concerned LAL has reported the outstanding charges to credit  reference 
agencies. The lease  agreements  says:
MISSING PAYMENTS  Missing  payments  could  have severe consequences and 
make obtaining  credit  more difficult. 
Whether or not Mr M disputes  what he owes, as far as LAL are concerned,  he owes them 
money. LAL is required to provide accurate information to credit reference agencies.  Ive not 
seen a copy of Mr Ms credit report as part of my review, so cant  comment  on its accuracy.  
But I dont think LAL has done anything wrong  in reporting the outstanding charges in 
relation to the late return of the vehicle.    
Ref: DRN59868344When Mr M first contacted us, he said charges were  appearing on his credit report  in relation 
to a parking fine that LAL had paid on Mr Ms behalf. If Mr M still believes this to be the case, 
then be might want to raise that with LAL. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986834