K820x#14complaint
Ms B, Mr W1 and Mr W2 complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated Mr W1 unfairly in 
relation to a skills  course he paid for Mr W2 to go on.
background
Mr W2 entered a contract to go on a professional skills training  course  which he attended. 
He says this course  wasnt  as described. Mr W1 had paid for it on his Barclays  credit card. 
Ms B, Mr W1 and Mr W2 complained to the course  provider but werent satisfied with how 
that went. So they complained to Barclays  as the course was paid for on a Barclays  Credit 
Card.
Barclays investigated the matter and told Mr W1 that he was out of time to raise a 
chargeback and that the required relationship wasnt in place  to raise a section 75 complaint 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  So it didnt feel that it had done anything  wrong  
regarding the transactions  (it did pay £50 for service issues). Ms B, Mr W1 and Mr W2 didnt 
agree so they complained  here.
The investigator didnt  feel any part of the complaint should be upheld.  Ms B, Mr W1 and Mr 
W2 dont agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two possible avenues for this complaint  to follow,  namely a Section 75 claim under 
the relevant legislation  or via the credit card chargeback process which  is under the 
chargeback scheme  rules  administered by the card scheme provider.
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mr W1 has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against a supplier of goods or services,  he can also bring that claim against 
Barclays provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions  is that there must be a 
debtor creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship.
This means  there needs to be pre-existing  arrangements  between  Mr W1, Barclays  and the 
course provider. But Mr W1 wasnt in the contractual relationship  about  the provision of the 
course. Mr W2 was the person named on the booking confirmation  and the person who went  
on the course. This means there wasnt the proper  debtor creditor  supplier relationship here 
as described in the Consumer Credit Act. The service was supplied  to Mr W2, but Mr W1 
has paid for it, but that doesnt  make  Mr W1 a contracting party. And Mr W1, not Mr W2, is 
the debtor.  So the debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement is broken.
Ms B argues that this is all a play on words and Barclays are trying to get out of what it 
owes. And I can well understand her frustration with the technicality which means Mr W1 
isnt getting the money back. But that doesnt  mean I can say Barclays  should  refund it, or 
that its done something wrong by not telling him about the d-c-s implications of such a 
situation. Barclays wasnt under any obligation  to do this. And we should remember  that the 
real gripe here is with the course provider. Barclays only becomes liable if the criteria of the 
Consumer Credit Act is met-and its my decision that it is not met in this case.  So I dont think  
Ref: DRN57976442Barclays has done anything wrong  in not refunding the money for the course or regarding  
Section 75 in this case.
The chargeback process  is administered by the scheme provider (not Barclays) and 
provides a process for banks to recover funds for its account holders  in certain situations. 
Broadly speaking banks  should decide whether  to make  a chargeback  or not. But wed 
generally consider  it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted where  there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. If they do, then they must do so properly. The vendor then 
receives that chargeback and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the 
chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Barclays here) should consider this and then if it 
still feels the chargeback  is warranted then it can take the chargeback further  and ultimately 
to the scheme  provider  who will then make  an independent determination on the matter.
Barclays didnt raise  a chargeback because it says it realised that it was out of time 
according to the scheme rules. Ive considered  the scheme rules. And I can see the 
transactions in this case were made  in October and November  2015. The course began  in 
January 2016  and lasted  six weeks. The follow up part of what  they paid for started in 
February 2016 and this is where Ms B, Mr W1 and Mr W2 say they werent getting what  they 
paid for. But the issue wasnt  raised with Barclays until March 2018. Having considered the 
time limits and that Barclays doesnt  have to raise a chargeback where there  isnt a 
reasonable prospect of success, I think Barclays has acted fairly in not trying to raise a 
chargeback here.
Considering what  happened with the service issues and noting  that Barclays  paid £50 at an 
early stage I think that is a fair remedy to those service issues.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Ms B, Mr W1 and Mr W2 have said. I appreciate 
how they feel about the whole situation and how let down  they feel by the course provider. 
However, all in all I dont  think Barclays has treated Mr W1 unfairly with regard  to the Section 
75 issue or the chargeback. So, I have decided that this complaint  shouldnt succeed.
I should add that Barclays,  in discussion with this service, offered a further £150 for the way 
it looked into matters.  Barclays  position of not upholding Mr W1s concerns was fair but for 
erroneous reasons. So Mr W1 hasnt lost out because of how it looked into things. So I dont 
think Barclays has to do anything further.  Mr W1 can approach  Barclays to see if it will 
honour the offer if he wishes.
my final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold  this complaint about Barclays  Bank UK Plc. There  is 
nothing further  it must  do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5797644