K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc recorded a CIFAS marker against his name  
when he applied for a credit  card.  CIFAS is the UKs  fraud alert service.
background 
In September  2018 Mr M applied for a Capital One credit card. He was offered a card with a 
credit limit of £200. He didnt feel this was sufficient  and so decided  not to go ahead. 
However, Capital One then recorded  a CIFAS marker against  his name. Mr M complained, 
and a few weeks  later  in November 2018   Capital  One agreed  to remove the marker. 
However, because  of what Capital One described as a system error, this wasnt done until 
May 2019. Capital  One accepted that it should  have been done much sooner  and sent Mr M 
a cheque for £100 in compensation. 
Mr M didnt  think  this went far enough  and complained to this service. He thinks  that the 
marker has prevented  him from getting  a consolidation loan which  could have saved him 
several hundred  pounds  a month. This in turn has had an impact on his living arrangements.
Capital One explained that it had some suspicions about the initial credit card application,  
and it appears this was because  it had difficulty verifying Mr Ms address. It had tried 
unsuccessfully to contact  him to confirm his details. But after Mr M had been  in touch it did 
accept that it shouldnt have recorded the CIFAS marker and should therefore  remove  it. 
Capital One also acknowledged that it should  have arranged for the removal of the marker  
very much earlier than it did.  
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She thought  Capital One should have 
offered a little more  compensation than the £100 it had paid and recommended a further  
£50. Capital One agreed but  in view of the problems hed faced  Mr M thought that was 
still not enough. He said he was looking for a payment in the region of £25,000;  he asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree that 
Capital Ones offer of a further £50, in addition to the £100 its already  paid,  is a fair 
resolution of Mr Ms complaint. 
It was primarily  for Capital One to decide whether it was prepared  to offer Mr M a credit  card 
and, if so, on what terms. I dont believe there  is any basis  on which I should intervene on 
that point. Mr M didnt want to take up the offer of a card with a £200 credit  limit and so didnt 
do so. 
But the main part of Mr Ms complaint concerns Capital Ones  decision to place a CIFAS 
marker against his name. It acknowledged reasonably  quickly that it shouldnt have done so 
 although I can understand  why it had concerns. But it should  have taken action  to have the 
marker removed much  more quickly than it did. Again, it accepts that. So the issue  for me to 
decide is whether  the compensation its offered goes far enough. 
I note what Mr M has said about the difficulty he has had in getting a loan to consolidate  his 
borrowing and reduce the cost of it. Im not persuaded however that those difficulties arise 
from the CIFAS marker.  It seems theyve continued even after the marker has been 
Ref: DRN57428172removed, and I think it just as likely that theyre  linked  to affordability as to the CIFAS 
marker. I dont believe I can fairly  conclude  that the CIFAS marker has had the effect Mr M 
says it has on his overall financial position. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that Capital Ones offer of a further £50 in 
recognition of the trouble  to which Mr M has been put is fair in the circumstances. I shall 
however make a formal  award in line with it.
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ms complaint, Capital  One (Europe) plc 
should pay him a further £50. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5742817