K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC closed his bank account  and didnt explain why. Hes 
also unhappy about the service he received from Lloyds when he tried find out why his 
account had been closed.  He wants Lloyds to reopen his account and pay him 
compensation.
Background
Mr O had a current account  with Lloyds. 
In November 2018, Lloyds decided to close Mr Os account. And it gave him two months  
notice to make alternative banking  arrangements.  
Mr O complained to Lloyds and went into a branch to try and find out why Lloyds  closed his 
account. Whilst in the branch Mr O says Lloyds told him that his account had been  closed  
due to fraud concerns, which he found  very upsetting as he says hes done nothing  wrong.  
Mr O asked Lloyds to reconsider opening  his account Lloyds said it had acted  in accordance  
with the terms and conditions when it closed  the account. And had made  a commercial 
decision it no longer  wanted Mr O as a customer. Lloyds accepted it had given Mr O 
misleading information when it told him his account had been closed due to fraud. And said 
this was mentioned  to Mr O as just a possibility when branch staff tried to explain to him why 
accounts are sometimes closed. Lloyds apologised and paid Mr O £75.00 compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience this had caused  him, which  Mr O accepted.
Mr O was still unhappy about his account  being closed. So, he brought him complaint to us.
An investigator looked at Mr Os complaint. She said Lloyds had closed Mr Os account in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the account.  Mr O disagreed.  As no agreement  could  be 
reached the matter  has come to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator for much the same reasons.
account closure
I appreciate that Mr O is upset that Lloyds closed his account and wants  it reopened. But a 
bank is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Lloyds Bank and Mr O had to comply  
with  say that it could  close  the account by giving Mr O two months notice. Lloyds Bank 
has done this. So, its entitled to close the account as it seems  its already done.
I know Mr O is frustrated that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation why his account  
was closed. And I appreciate that there was some  confusion initially.  But under the terms 
and conditions Lloyds  doesnt have to give a reason for doing so  in the same way a 
Ref: DRN59160422customer doesnt have  to, should  they no longer want to bank with them.  So, I cant say 
Lloyds has done  anything wrong by not giving Mr O this information  as much as hed like 
to know. 
However, I can see that when Lloyds  wrote to Mr O on 27 November  2018,  it explained that 
it had closed his account as it considered him to be outside its risk appetite.  So, I think  its 
likely Mr O had some understanding about  why his account was closed. This is a 
commercial decision on Lloyds part, which it is entitled to make,  and not something this 
service usually gets involved with. 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr O feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  time. I realise Mr O will be disappointed by my decision, but overall,  based  
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say Lloyds  have acted unreasonably  and treated  Mr O 
unfairly when it closed his account. So, Im not going  to ask them to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle  this 
complaint. So, I wont  be asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5916042