K821x#15complaint
Ms N is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay her home insurance claim for 
jewellery and gold stolen after her home was burgled.
background
In April 2017 Ms N had a burglary  at her home. She advises that thieves stole a number of 
high value jewellery items, some cash she had withdrawn to pay for a car repair and some 
makeup. The thieves also damaged some furniture. When  she made the claim she told AXA 
that the following jewellery  items had been  stolen:
2 sets of gold bangles worth  £8,000  per set
2 rings worth together about  £456
a gold bar worth  £15,500
four gold chains  together worth  £988
Ms N provided what she said was a purchase  receipt but was in fact a valuation  for 
24 bangles 2 rings  and 2 chains. In respect of the gold bar she produced  a valuation for 
£1,495, although again she said that was a receipt. AXA's loss adjusters made a number of 
enquiries of the two different jewellers  who confirmed that the documents presented  were  
valuations, not receipts.  Neither jeweller  was able to say Ms N purchased the items  from 
them. And Ms N was unclear where she had bought  the jewellery items from. She said she 
had paid cash, and produced a statement for her daughters account showing a withdrawal 
of £20,000 in 2012 and another statement from an account again in her daughters name  
showing a withdrawal of a similar amount in October 2015.
Ultimately AXA says it wasnt satisfied  that the evidence  showed Ms N had owned the 
jewellery items in question. It pointed out that when  she had notified it of the claim,  she had 
said that all the items  had been purchased by her the previous year and that she had had a 
number of her jewellery items melted down to make the gold bar. Despite their recent 
purchase she had been  unable to show it any receipts or proof  of purchase for the jewellery 
items. The discrepancy between the value claimed  for the gold bar and the amount  on the 
valuation was so great  as to make it think they werent the same items. It declined  to pay her 
claim, but agreed  to pay her £200  compensation for its delays in dealing with the claim. 
Ms N later produced some further bank  statements  and copy  photos but AXA confirmed it 
still wasnt satisfied that Ms N had proved her claim.
On referral to this service,  our investigator  said that AXA had acted reasonably  in not paying 
for the jewellery/gold items. In a further view she said that for the non-jewellery items  of cash 
and makeup Ms N had produced sufficient  evidence to show that she had bought  those 
items, and withdrawn the cash, and that AXA should pay for the damaged furniture which  
was a modest claim. She also proposed that AXA pay a further  £100  compensation for 
inconvenience caused. AXA agreed  to pay for the non-jewellery items and damage but didnt 
agree to pay any further compensation. It said that Ms N was concerned  about the jewellery 
items and hadnt  at any stage pursued  the other  items, choosing not to do so after it had 
given its final response in May 2018.
Ms N was still dissatisfied  she insisted  that the valuations she had produced  were receipts 
and that the jewellers should  be approached to validate them.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN55706792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
jewellery/gold items
As AXA and our investigator have pointed out, under the terms of the policy Ms N can be 
required to produce  certain documents such as original  purchase receipts,  or other  
documents such as bank  statements,  photographs  etc. 
It is up to the policyholder  to prove  their claim.  In this case  Ms N initially  told AXA that she 
had bought the jewellery with cash about a year before the claim. But she hasnt been able 
to produce any documents evidencing  payment or showing  she purchased the items.  She 
further said that she had had her jewellery  melted down into a gold bar. She has asked us to 
accept that the valuations  she had produced  are receipts. But the evidence, from AXAs 
interactions with the jewellers involved is that they say the documents are valuations.
Ms N said the gold bar was worth £15,500 but has only been able to shows us a valuation  
for £1,495. AXA has said its unable to say that this is the same  item. And Ms N told our  
investigator that the gold bar was 10 years  old. And that a couple  of the gold chains were 
gifts. Shes  also produced  some old photos  showing the chains being worn.
That said we do appreciate that sometimes it is difficult  to provide proof  of older items and 
that people can get confused. So we will consider  whether the insurer should accept other 
documents like photos or boxes or valuations. But in this case  I think there are such  
significant discrepancies  between Ms Ns initial account and the documents shes produced 
that it was reasonable for AXA to ask for stricter proof. This is especially so where there  are 
such high value items which are said to have been  purchased recently. Ms N has shown us 
bank statements showing that £20,000  was withdrawn from her daughters account. But AXA 
isnt satisfied that this shows Ms N bought  the items particularly as it appears to be her 
daughters money.  AXA also isnt satisfied that the photos prove the ownership of the gold 
chains. And those photos dont appear to be very clear.
So, as matters stand  I think  AXA acted reasonably in declining the claim for the jewellery 
items. But its said its willing to look at this further if other evidence becomes available.  If 
Ms N is able to produce any further  evidence she should address this with AXA.
non-jewellery/gold items 
I think its fair that AXA should settle the other  items. This is because I think Ms N has 
produced sufficient evidence of their loss. As our investigator found, she has produced 
evidence from her bank  statements that she purchased £800 worth of makeup.  She has 
explained the high value  of this by showing us that she had completed a hair and makeup 
course a year or so before the claim. Shes also shown that she withdrew over £800  in cash 
in the period shortly before the claim. The limit on the policy is £500 but I think  its fair that 
AXA pay the claim for cash subject to that limit. She has also made a claim for £310 for the 
furniture the thieves damaged. Again I think thats  fair. 
AXA agreed to make these payments in response to our investigators further view. although 
it hadnt done so before. If it hasnt already, AXA should settle  the claim for those items, less 
Ref: DRN55706793the policy excess of £600 and subject  to policy limits. Our investigator clarified that this 
would mean  a payment of £510.  
compensation
AXA has objected to payment of a further  £100  compensation. It has explained that Ms N 
hasnt been concerned about pursuing those items,  instead concentrating on her claim for 
jewellery/gold. But she nevertheless had a claim for non-jewellery/gold items which AXA 
could have addressed at the time. Coupled with the fact that we would normally expect it to 
pay interest on a cash settlement, overall  I think its fair that AXA pay a further £100.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay to Ms N £510 in settlement of her claim for the non-jewellery  items,  if it hasnt  
already paid this.
pay Ms N a further £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5570679