K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) hasnt dealt with a claim she 
made on her home insurance fairly.
background
Mrs C was away from home in September 2018.  On her return, she found that a shower  
caddy had fallen  off the wall in her bathroom and this had turned the shower on. The shower 
ran hot water for a long time and caused steam damage to her home.
Mrs C contacted One Insurance on 23 September 2018. Initially One Insurance  said it 
wouldnt consider  her claim as it felt the failure  of the caddy was wear and tear. A little 
later, One Insurance re-considered  this and asked Mrs C to provide  photographs of the 
damage.
The property was inspected on 18 October 2018. In November 2018  One Insurance  decided 
it would  cover the claim. Drying of the property and some stripping works commenced during
this month.
Whilst the drying was ongoing, Mrs C sought  alternative accommodation for herself  and her
family. She moved back home  because  she could not afford it anymore. 
Mrs C says she was facing numerous health  issues, and couldnt bear to be in her home 
with temperatures  of over 30 degrees. She turned the dryers off. That was about 
4 December 2018 and the progress of the drying halted. This continued for a further  week. 
Mrs C asked to be moved  in alternative  accommodation around  this time and this was 
refused by the insurer, as it thought the house  was habitable.
On 10 December 2018 One Insurance  said that turning off the dryers was causing  significant
delays and the property should  have dried  by this time but this had not happened. They 
decided instead  to offer a cash settlement to settle  the claim.  They  offered Mrs C £4,588.08 
which covered the cost of two weeks of additional drying and the remaining  re-instatement  
costs.
Mrs C was unhappy that the work  would stop and a cash settlement had been offered. She 
said there were some  additional  items  which had been damaged  due to the steam. One
Insurance asked  her to provide a list of the items  which  she did on 22 January 2019.  On 
review, One Insurance decided to offer £5,000 in cash settlement of the claim, and an 
additional £500 for any distress and inconvenience  caused by the delays at the start of the 
claim when  they were deciding whether the claim was covered.
Mrs C accepted the payment of £5,000 for repairs  and provided her bank details  this has 
not been paid to date.  She has brought the complaint to us because  she doesnt  think  the 
contents element  of her claim has been considered correctly.
Our investigator thought One Insurance  should  do more than it has. She accepted  that 
Mrs C was willing to accept the £5,000 to complete the repairs on her home  (some  of which 
Mrs C has already had done) and asked One Insurance to pay this as soon as possible. She 
thought this payment had been unnecessarily  delayed and so One Insurance should add 
interest to this to compensate Mrs C for the delay and being out of pocket. She didnt think 
One Insurance had dealt with the contents  part of the claim properly, and said it should  go 
Ref: DRN57718772through the list of items and explain which were covered and which not. She said One 
Insurance should refund the cost of items  One Insurance  is covering under the claim  if Mrs C 
has replaced them and add interest to this amount. If there  are items that havent  yet been 
replaced One Insurance should  deal with those either by replacing them or providing a cash 
settlement.
Our investigator also thought One Insurance  should pay the £500  compensation  it offered,  
but that this should be increased to £750  to take into account all the distress  and 
inconvenience shes suffered. 
Mrs C says shes content with the offer of £5,000 but it hasnt been paid. One Insurance 
hasnt said if it accepts  our investigators opinion or not. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve asked One Insurance to provide its own full files for this claim and those  of its 
contractor. Weve only received One Insurances internal notes  so no records  from the 
contractor such as reports or records of its conversations with Mrs C. Im therefore reaching 
my decision  on the information  we do have.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint and Ill explain  why.
One Insurance didnt accept this claim as valid initially  but it did say it would reconsider the 
situation about a week later. It then took another fortnight for One Insurance to get an 
inspection of the property arranged. By this time Mrs C and her family  had moved out of their 
home because they didnt  think  they could stay there. So the damage was clearly causing 
some difficulties. Mrs C and her family  moved back home when she could  no longer afford 
the cost of the hotel. Mrs C says she thinks One Insurance  should  pay for, at least,  part of 
the hotel bill, because  it meant the drying  could  be completed faster than if she and her 
family were at home.
One Insurance had the property inspected when Mrs C and her family returned and said that 
apart from the dryers  being in operation the house could be lived in. Ive seen no report  from 
the specialist contractor to support this. 
Shortly after this Mrs C told One Insurance she couldnt live in the house with the dryers  on 
full time, and shed  felt she had to turn them off. About a week  later One Insurance  decided  it 
would not progress this claim further   that is, complete the drying  process and reinstate the 
property to its original condition. Instead it offered a cash settlement for the remaining work  
about £4,500. It says it took that decision because,  by turning the dryers off, Mrs C was 
preventing her home from drying  out properly. 
Mrs C says she has underlying health issues and simply  couldnt  cope  with the temperature 
and noise caused by the dryers and her heating,  which she says she thought she had to 
have on.
One Insurance says Mrs C was kept up to date on when and for how long the dryers should 
be on, and that she wasnt told to keep  her heating on as well. The only comment Ive seen 
from the contractor is that it wouldnt tell a customer to keep their heating  on  nor to keep 
Ref: DRN57718773windows closed. But theres no contemporaneous record  of the actual conversations 
between Mrs C and the contractor  so its difficult for me to make a fair judgement about 
what actually happened. But Mrs C has been consistent in what shes told us about  
happened  and Im persuaded  by her recollections  about this point.
Theres no question that Mrs C did turn the dryers off, but I dont think that justifies 
One Insurance deciding it would no longer complete the repairs  and offer a cash  settlement 
instead. That would only be an appropriate course of action if the relationship  had broken 
down  and Ive seen no evidence of that. Nor have I seen any evidence that One Insurance  
tried to work  with Mrs C to get the drying  done  without  causing her health issues to get 
worse. 
One Insurance then said it would pay Mrs C £5,000  to complete the claim.  The initial offer of 
£4,500 or so was based on several quotes  it received  from the contractor plus a contribution  
towards some further drying. One Insurance hasnt said precisely why its increased its initial 
offer to £5,000. Mrs C says shes content  with this offer as settlement of the building  part of 
her claim. I think, based on Mrs Cs wishes, this is a fair offer.
I cant see that One properly assessed  the damage  to the contents Mrs C claimed  for. And 
although weve asked  One Insurance for more information on this weve received no reply.  
Im going  to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint about this, and that means One Insurance  must 
assess (or re-assess)  this part of the claim and explain to Mrs C how it intends  to settle this 
part of the claim. For any items that are covered, if Mrs C has already replaced these, 
One Insurance must  reimburse Mrs C for her costs, if Mrs C sends the relevant receipts. 
One Insurance must  also pay interest on these amounts as Mrs C has been out of pocket for 
some months. If Mrs C hasnt replaced  other  items that are covered, One Insurance can 
settle that part of the claim without adding interest.
 
One said it would pay Mrs C £5,000 to settle the buildings part of the claim more than a year 
ago. It could have  done that without waiting for the result of this complaint, and has told us it 
would do so, although it hasnt yet. So I think it has unnecessarily delayed payment of this 
amount, and should add interest calculated  at 8% simple per annum)  to this from 
13 December 2018 (the date One Insurance told Mrs C it would only offer a cash  settlement) 
to the date its paid.  
Ive also thought about the appropriate  amount of compensation One Insurance  should pay 
Mrs C. Mrs C has described her health  condition  which is one that could  well be 
exacerbated by living  in a damp  property.  Shes  also told us that her daughter has had to 
share a bedroom  with her for nine months whilst shes saved up to do some repairs. Mrs C 
also says she was left without electricity in some parts of her home. I think it would be 
appropriate for One Insurance to pay Mrs C £750 for this, as recommended by our 
investigator. I have  thought about Mrs Cs comments about  linking this to the costs 
One Insurance would  have paid if it had agreed she and her family should move into a hotel. 
But I cant say thats an appropriate way to decide  on compensation  which is for distress 
and/or inconvenience, and isnt linked to the cost  actual or potential   of a claim.
Mrs C says she doesnt think  One Insurance paid a separate amount for repairs  thats been 
mentioned  just under  £4,000. One Insurance  told us that was a payment to the contractor 
that started  the repair work and drying,  and gave  us a breakdown of the work. That amount 
wouldnt have gone to Mrs C. I dont think theres  any reason for Mrs C to be concerned  
about this, as its something for One Insurance and the contractor to sort out if theres 
anything outstanding.
Ref: DRN57718774my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order One Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs C £5,000  plus interest*  at 8% simple per annum from 13 December 2018 to 
the date of payment, if it hasnt already done  so. This payment must be made  within 
14 days of the date of this decision.
Pay Mrs C £750 compensation for the way its handled  this claim. This payment must 
be made within 14 days of the date of this decision.
Consider Mrs Cs contents claim and explain which items are being accepted  and if 
any arent why not.
If Mrs C has replaced accepted items reimburse her the cost of these, plus interest* 
at 8% simple per annum from the date she paid for them  to the date of payment. 
If Mrs C hasnt replaced  some accepted items  meet  the claim as it normally  would.
*HMRC requires  One Insurance to deduct  tax from this (these)  amount(s)  before  making  
payment to Mrs C. One Insurance must  give Mrs C a tax certificate showing the amount 
deducted if she asks for one.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5771877