K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Advantage Insurance  Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with the cancellation of his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr M had a motor insurance  policy with Advantage. And he had an additional policy  through 
his employer as a delivery driver. When Advantage was notified of a claim it cancelled his 
policy. This was because it wasnt aware  he was a delivery driver and it went on to chase 
him for the remaining premium.
As Mr M wasnt  happy about  this he complained to Advantage  and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. He accepted  that 
Advantage was entitled to cancel the policy, as Mr M shouldve made it aware that he was 
working as a delivery driver and it was entitled to cancel the policy  from that point in time.  
But he thought  that Advantage shouldnt have  chased Mr M for the outstanding premium  as 
the claim was dealt with under Mr Ms employers policy. So he asked it to only charge time 
on cover  and to pay Mr M £100  compensation.
Advantage agreed to only charge Mr M for his time on cover and to waive the small 
outstanding charge. But it didnt think that it should pay any compensation, so the matter  has 
been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
As it is accepted that Advantage shouldnt have chased Mr M for any outstanding premium  
and shouldve just charged him for time on cover I dont propose to go over this any further. I 
know Mr M has gone onto pay a higher premium with his new insurer but that isnt a matter 
for Advantage. Once  he became a delivery  driver, after the policy started, it was entitled to 
cancel his policy as it wouldnt have provided  cover.
So, as there  isnt any other issue to consider I will just focus on the matter  of compensation. 
Our investigator said that Advantage  should pay £100 compensation for the stress all this 
has caused Mr M. While  Advantage  has said that it wasnt  responsible  for the setting of the 
finance agreement  and chasing Mr M for the outstanding premium.  So it doesnt feel it is 
responsible for the stress caused by chasing  Mr M for the outstanding premium. 
I accept that Advantage didnt set up the finance  agreement. But it is failing to grasp  that it 
was responsible for cancelling  the policy and requesting  payment for the full cost of the 
policy, as opposed  to just charging  time on cover. I know  there was a possibility that there 
was an outstanding claim but that didnt materialise, for the reasons outlined  above. And I 
think Advantage couldve put everything  on hold while  it got to the bottom of what  happened 
rather than allow Mr M to be chased  for the remaining  premium.  So I think it is only fair and 
reasonable for it to pay £100  compensation.
Ref: DRN53603782my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5360378