K820x#14complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  in 
2003. He says PPI was never mentioned. The PPI was eventually  cancelled in 2004.
background
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr W disagreed and its been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
This sale took place  a considerable  time ago and there isnt much known about what 
happened, nor are there any original documents  from the sale to refer to. After such  a long 
time, this isnt particularly  unusual. 
However, Mr W says he recalls the credit  card being sold over the telephone.  Weve been 
asked to look at a number of similar  sales in relation to HSBC that occurred in this way and 
as a consequence, weve obtained a lot of information about what  customers  were  usually  
told and the processes they went through during the sales.
We know, for example,  that whilst much of the discussion about the card and whether PPI 
was required took place over the phone,  consumers  were then sent some documents to 
read, sign and return. And weve seen many examples  where consumers were asked to 
confirm if they wanted  PPI by either  selecting from a yes or no option   or signing their 
name inside a box.
So I believe  its more likely that Mr W would have had to do this i.e. make  the yes choice  for 
the PPI to be added. On balance, I think he agreed  to the cover.
HSBC still needed  to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr W 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI.
I cant say what was said over the phone because  it was so long ago but I think there would 
have been some discussion about the policy. I also acknowledge that examples of the form 
Ive referred to above seem to me to be capable of improvement, as far as disclosing 
information is concerned.  
However, by specifically selecting  the cover, I think its most likely Mr W had given  some  
thought to whether he might have a use for it, and I dont  think theres enough evidence to 
suggest what HSBC  did or didnt do would  have caused Mr W to act differently. I think hed 
have still bought the policy if the information had been better.
I say this because  as well as agreeing to it, Mr W was eligible for the cover and I dont think 
would have been caught by any of the main  exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
Ref: DRN56422422policy. The cost of the cover seems  comparable with similar credit card protection I know  
was marketed around that time.  
I agree  that Mr W wouldve probably  been  entitled to some  sickness cover through his work 
but this doesnt necessarily mean  the policy wasnt of use to him. In the event of a 
successful claim, it would have reduced his credit card balance  by 10% for up to a year. In 
his situation, I think  this would have been  of value to Mr W.
After such a long time,  I cant say for sure why Mr W decided  to buy the cover, but I can 
certainly see how he may have had a use for it. Taking all these things into account  together 
with him probably  selecting to buy the PPI, I dont think the policy was mis-sold
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont require  
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything to put matters  right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5642242