K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L say Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold them an Offset mortgage with connected  
mortgage current account (MCA)  in 2003. They also say documentation  has disappeared 
from their records.
background 
Mr and Mrs L had an existing mortgage with Barclays.
In 2003 they say they were told they had to apply  for a new mortgage  to draw down 
additional funds.  They say
A home visit was arranged with Barclays over the telephone, though  the initial interview,  
which was a fact finding  one, turned out to be quite short as Barclays already had our 
existing mortgage,  our current accounts  and our up to date personal details on record.  The 
Barclays agent said he would come back on another  day, with quotes for us to consider.
When the Barclays agent returned  he had a file of paperwork, which he said included 
quotes for different types of mortgages. In shuffling  the paperwork he revealed a sheet of 
paper which we assume we werent supposed  to see, as it was a calculation for the 
commission he would receive  on the completion of our choice of mortgage. This rang alarm 
bells and we asked  why he sought to gain personally from our application  if he was a 
Barclays employee in a salaried position.  It turned out he had been appointed by Barclays to 
act on a brokerage  basis which,  he said, was normal practice.  
We asked him to leave  and contacted  Barclays. We felt it improper  that we were being 
expected to pay a substantial  fee to a broker  acting  for Barclays,  when our belief was that 
we were arranging  our mortgage  direct with the bank. It was agreed  that the new mortgage 
would be processed  in-house by the bank. 
We never got a proper  explanation for the use of the agent  by Barclays,  but were  assured 
that no one would benefit personally from our proceeding with the mortgage direct  and that 
there would be no cost implication to us as a result.
We were subsequently sent a contract  through  the post with very little by way of 
accompanying paperwork or explanation  of the mortgage product that Barclays  offered us. 
Whilst, in hindsight, it might seem naive to have proceeded on such  a basis,  we had both 
been customers of Barclays  for a long time ([Mrs L] since student days) and have all our 
accounts, insurances etc with the bank. We were  looking for a small amount of additional 
funding, we werent moving house  and we had no reason  to mistrust the bank  or its 
employees when  they encouraged us to proceed on the basis of the single product they 
offered us.
Mr and Mrs L say they had been told on numerous occasions that the debt outstanding on 
the MCA reserve would be rolled  forward into a new borrowing  arrangement at the end of 
the term. But in late Spring 2017  they were told it wouldnt and they were at risk of losing 
their home due to the debt outstanding. Mr and Mrs L repaid the debt in 2017 by taking an 
equity release mortgage.
Our investigator set out the complaint  under five broad headings, taking those  from the 
various complaints  Mr and Mrs L had raised with Barclays. The investigator  said:
Ref: DRN56943402[Mr and Mrs L] have  raised a number  of complaints about how Barclays handled their 
mortgage. They say
their mortgage and their mortgage product was mis-sold to them
Barclays destroyed records relating to their mortgage
A staff member  sought to buy [Mrs Ls] wedding and engagement  rings from her for 
personal gain
Barclays has mis-handled correspondence
Barclays mis-spelt  their names  and where  they lived.
She rejected all elements of the complaint saying she thought  Barclays various  offers to pay 
a total of £500 compensation  was fair (with £250  having already been paid) for some  errors 
and confusion at times.
Mr and Mrs L responded saying theyd only referred  the first two bullet points to us and that 
by drawing the other three  points in, the investigator  had been  distracted and that had 
prevented a proper  investigation into the complaint theyd made. They  said they wanted  an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint theyd actually made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs L wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service.  If I dont  comment on any specific  point its not because  Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome.
Mr and Mrs L have said they were visited by a Barclays  agent before they took out the 
mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs L said On the one hand they say they know nothing  about 
the home visit by the person they sent out to us in response to our contact with them: yet on 
the other they say they have not destroyed records. It is not possible for both of those things 
to be true. 
I understand Mr and Mrs L feel its been implied that theyre  lying in their account of what 
took place. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs L that I dont  think  theyre lying,  but this is 
something that happened in 2003 for which theres  no contemporaneous evidence.  Barclays 
didnt pay its mortgage advisers commission at that time, so the person couldnt  have been 
an employee of Barclays  if hed be receiving commission.  Barclays  also didnt have any ties 
at that time which would have resulted in it sending out a third party  mortgage  adviser  to act 
on its behalf. 
So that just leaves the third option which is that the person was an independent financial 
adviser. It seems unlikely Barclays would ask an independent adviser to visit Mr and Mrs L 
for two main reasons. The first is there would have been the risk the independent adviser 
would have recommended  moving Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage to a completely different lender 
so Barclays would have  lost the business. And the second is that if the independent adviser 
left the mortgage  with Barclays  then Barclays would be paying them a commission fee for 
nothing in effect, as it already had Mr and Mr Ls business. 
Its possible the person  was an employee of Barclays that visited  Mr and Mrs L at home to 
try to help them with the mortgage process,  as theyve told us they were vulnerable at the 
Ref: DRN56943403time. But if that was the case the person wouldnt have received commission as they would  
just have been a normal salaried employee,  so it doesnt tie in with what  Mr and Mrs L have 
told us about a commission payment.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr and Mrs L are the ones bringing the 
complaint against  Barclays, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Ls version needs to be 
more likely than Barclays version;  not just as likely . Having considered what both sides  have 
said I dont find Mr and Mrs Ls version to be any more than just as likely. In any event  
Mr and Mrs L didnt proceed  with anything from this visit.
Mr and Mrs L have said they were just sent a contract through the post with very little by way 
of accompanying  paperwork  or explanation  of the product. They  say they were sent a 
pre-filled in application form for one product and just signed  it where  instructed as they felt it 
was take  it or leave it.
Theyve said they were  vulnerable at the time (I wont go into any details here to protect their 
privacy) and they think the expediency  with which [Barclays] approached the process  was 
driven by that.
Ive looked at the notes at the time the application  was processed,  and I can see Mrs L 
complained about things  taking too long. The notes  show the following contacts:
9 June 2003: Mrs L wasnt happy  about  the length  of time the solicitor was taking  with the 
legal side as they advised her that completion wouldnt take place until 26 June.
16 June 2003:  Mrs L was extremely unhappy,  saying thered been  excessive  delays in 
processing. She was also unhappy that Barclays hadnt told the solicitor  about her 
building insurance.  Mrs L said shed write  in to complain, however may pull out if she 
couldnt complete  asap  as she wasnt happy to wait for the normal  five working days 
notice thats needed for completion.
17 June 2003:  The solicitor said Mrs L had also complained to them about the timescales.
From this it seems Mrs L was the one pushing things through. It also shows that Mrs L was 
taking an active role in the process, rather than just sitting back  and signing documents  
where instructed.
Mr and Mrs L signed a mortgage execution only document  which set out the three  levels of 
service as:
Advice and Recommendation
Information on the different types  of mortgage product on offer
Information on a single mortgage  product
The third option  was ticked and the explanatory  note said If only one mortgage is available  
or if you have already  made up your mind.
It was noted that Mr and Mrs L only wanted  information about the Open Plan Offset  product, 
and that various  documents had been provided including:
Ref: DRN56943404You and your Mortgage
Your Guide to Mortgages
Mortgage Facts and figures
Mortgage illustration
Tariff of charges
Mr and Mrs L signed a declaration that said We would appreciate  your confirmation below 
that advice has been offered and declined and that you opted for information  on the different 
types of mortgage  products on offer or a single product and that the features and costs  of 
the products listed above including any early repayment charges have been explained.
If Mr and Mrs L didnt want to just proceed with the product that was noted and instead  
wanted mortgage advice then the time to raise that was then. 
In terms of the product, that was a lifetime tracker  at Bank of England base rate +0.85%, so 
that has worked out to be an advantageous rate for Mr and Mrs L with the base rate being at 
historical lows for so long.  The mortgage was taken on a repayment  basis over a 14-year 
term, so it was guaranteed to be repaid when Mr and Mrs L turned  60 (if all payments were 
met in full and on time). So again that doesnt seem inappropriate in any event.
The problem came because of the MCA reserve which  meant Mr and Mrs L were able to 
borrow back the money they repaid  on their mortgage. So whilst the account was opened 
with a £0 reserve facility  available, as Mr and Mrs L repaid the mortgage,  the amount repaid 
became available for them  to borrow back, which they duly did. This led to Mr and Mrs L 
owing in excess of £80,000 at the end of the term. Mr and Mrs L have said they werent  told 
that amount  would have to be repaid by the end of the mortgage term, and that they were  
reassured it could  be rolled forward into a new borrowing  arrangement.
The MCA reserve was an optional facility. If Mr and Mrs L felt it was inappropriate for them 
then they could have asked for it to be removed,  or simply  not spent money from it. There  
are a few contact notes  over the years  about  the MCA:
15 June 2004:  Mrs L was advised  the minimum withdrawal by telegraphic transfer was 
£500, so she said shed write  a cheque.
12 November 2005: Barclays explained how to repay the reserve and advised 
Mr and Mrs L of the amount outstanding.
10 January 2008:  Mrs L called  as shed received a letter saying she was over her MCA 
reserve limit. The note said Mrs L was unhappy  as shed completed a transfer in 
December after shed  checked the online balance. Barclays  apologised, said it was an 
error on its part and that Mr and Mrs L hadnt  been penalised in any way.
The annual mortgage statements contained the following warning Any funds drawn from the 
Reserve Facility are secured against  your property, must be repaid  by the end of the 
mortgage term and will require you to put additional  arrangements into place to repay  this, 
as your monthly contractual mortgage repayments  do not cover the additional  borrowing.
The statements  also confirmed the current balance  of both the mortgage and the MCA 
reserve borrowing.
Ref: DRN56943405It may be Mr and Mrs L were reassured over the years that theyd be able to rearrange the 
MCA reserve borrowing at the end of the mortgage term. But the mortgage market   and the 
regulatory landscape  has changed  significantly  in the time since Mr and Mrs L took this 
mortgage. I can only consider the arrangement of this mortgage  against the regulations  that 
were in place at the time, and without  the benefit  of hindsight. And having done  so Im 
satisfied Barclays didnt  mis-sell this mortgage  to Mr and Mrs L. Im also satisfied that any 
reassurance Mr and Mrs L may have received over the years wasnt a guarantee that theyd 
be able to roll forward the MCA reserve debt at the end of the term.
For all the reasons given  I cant uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs L to accept  or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5694340