K822xcomplaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a debt he was being  chased for that related to someone else.
Mr K says Arrow Global  Limiteds actions caused him loss. 
background 
Arrow purchased a debt from a Bank which it thought was in relation to Mr K. The debt was 
in fact against someone else who had the same  name as Mr Ks but a different spelling. 
Arrow brought court proceedings against  Mr K. Judgment  was eventually entered  against 
him, which was then recorded on his credit file. Following this Arrow agreed to have the 
judgment set aside- their having accepted the debt was owed  by another.  Despite this the 
judgment remained on Mr Ks credit file. 
Arrow acknowledged it had taken them too long to do what  was necessary to remove  the 
judgment from Mr Ks credit file so they offered him £200 in compensation for this. Mr K was 
unhappy with this and says Arrows actions  resulted in disastrous losses  for him in relation  to 
obtaining credit, including to buy a home and that he became unable to work, as a 
consequence of the stress associated with this matter. He says theres still an entry on his 
credit file, which has yet to be removed, and is preventing him from moving  on from this 
matter.
Arrow says its not currently reporting any information to credit  reference agencies about Mr 
K so it doesnt know why theres an entry on his credit file. Mr K has told us hes trying to find 
out more about this from the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  She said 
that Arrows delay in removing the information about the debt from Mr Ks credit file caused  
him more  in losses than the £200  Arrow offered to pay. So she said Arrow should  pay him a 
further £300 in addition  to the amount already offered. The £300 was in respect  of solicitors 
fees Mr K incurred in corresponding with Arrows solicitors about  the debt and taking general 
advice in relation  to it.  
Mr K and Arrow dont  agree with our investigators view, so the matter  has been passed  to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mr Ks complaint should be upheld for the same reasons  reached  by our investigator.
Mr K feels  that Arrow should compensate him for all the losses  he says he suffered as a 
result of the judgment  being placed on his credit file- when that judgment related  to someone 
else. Arrow accept that when it chased  Mr K for this debt, it was a mistrace.  So the issue for 
me to decide  is what compensation  should  be paid to Mr K.
Mr K says the mistrace  and the consequences of it had a significant impact on him; he says 
the stress  of it caused him to leave his job and prevented  him from obtaining  bank accounts, 
mortgages and obtaining credit more  generally. He says he had to borrow money from family 
Ref: DRN56268442members because he couldnt obtain credit  and he had to rent accommodation when hed 
otherwise have been able to obtain a mortgage  to buy it. 
As the investigator  said, Mr K resigned  from his job before Arrow made contact  with him. So 
I cant say this was as a consequence of something they did. As such I cant  consider any 
losses associated with this, including the Ultra Low Emissions Zone payment he says he 
made himself for his work, which he wants Arrow to pay.  
Our investigator asked  Mr K for evidence  of any losses he suffered after Arrow started 
contacting him in January  2016. I can see that Mr K applied  for a bank account and loans a 
couple of years after this. And I accept that the judgment against him may well have 
prevented these being accepted. So I agree that Arrow should compensate him for this. But 
because Mr K hasnt provided  any evidence to demonstrate the financial impact of this on 
him, I cant say that hes entitled to more than the £200 Arrow has offered him in respect  of 
this. 
I also think Arrow should pay Mr K a proportion of the legal fees hes incurred. Although  
Arrow feel Mr K couldve obtained  free legal advice  to help him with this, I dont think  its 
reasonable for Arrow  to expect Mr K to have  done this. He was after all subject to legal 
proceedings. So I think its fair that he sought  the assistance of solicitors on a privately 
paying basis- particularly when hed tried to resolve  the matter  with Arrow before 
proceedings were  brought against him. 
However I accept that Mr K isnt entitled to claim all of the sums  he incurred in legal costs  
against Arrow. The correspondence  Ive seen suggests that Mr K couldve mitigated 
judgment being entered by sending  Arrow  information about his reporting of the mistaken 
identity issue to the policy fraud team.  This wasnt forthcoming and neither did Mr K file a 
defence in time so judgment was entered against him. Mr K says he didnt file a defence 
because hed been in contact with the bank who sold the debt to Arrow and theyd agreed to 
contact all third parties to stop contact. But I can also see that Arrow had told Mr K, through  
his solicitors that theyd  be continuing  with the claim  so if he didnt  respond,  judgment could 
be entered against him. Because of this I think that Mr K couldnt done more  to prevent 
judgment being entered against him at the time. 
Consequently I think Arrow should pay a proportion of his legal costs which amounts to 
general advice  about the debt in December 2017  (£50), and half of his solicitors  fees 
thereafter which represents corresponding with Arrows solicitors  (£250). Ive discounted any 
costs associated with filing a defence or setting  aside  judgment because I dont think  these 
wouldve been necessary had Mr K provided  Arrow with evidence of his report  to the policy  
fraud team when  proceedings were brought against him. 
I know Mr K is concerned about entries remaining on his credit file. I havent  seen a recent 
credit report  for him so I dont know what is still showing. Arrow have said theyre not 
currently reporting any entries on his file. But if anything new does present itself as a result 
of the judgment  applied  by Arrow,  then I would expect Arrow to do all they can to remove  
this. If Mr K remains  unhappy, then he should raise a new complaint accordingly.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint  against  Arrow Global Limited and 
direct them to pay Mr K £500 in compensation. 
Ref: DRN56268443Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5626844