K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc has allowed a direct  debit that she 
cancelled to be reinstated.  
Mr J represents Mrs J in making the complaint.
background
Mrs J cancelled a direct debit set up on her current account with NatWest  in July 2017. She 
told both the company it was for and NatWest. But the direct  debit  was reinstated by the 
company and another payment was made from her account. NatWest  refunded this to her 
under the direct debit guarantee and the direct debit was then cancelled  again.
However, in May 2018, Mrs J noticed  two more  payments to the company on her statement. 
She contacted NatWest  and was told it was advisable to cancel a direct debit with both the 
bank and the originator. But she said she no longer had a contract  with that company and 
had cancelled the direct  debit with it and NatWest. She felt it was a breach of NatWests duty 
to safeguard her account from such an unauthorised withdrawal. The money was repaid to 
her under the direct debit  guarantee  and NatWest told Mrs J that it doesnt  have control  over 
the direct  debit payments as it acts as the middleman between the customer and the 
company (the originator).
our adjudicators opinion
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He said 
the direct  debit had been reinstated by the originator and not by the bank. NatWest  had 
refunded the payments when Mrs J made it aware  that theyd been incorrectly  taken. And he 
thought NatWest had dealt  with Mrs Js complaint reasonably.  
On Mrs Js behalf, Mr J didnt  accept  the adjudicators findings. He said the direct debit had 
been reinstated after being cancelled seven months  before, so there was no authority for the 
payment to be taken.  So NatWest had acted wrongly in allowing the payment. He asked for 
Mrs Js complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. In summary, I said that 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. 
I looked at the website  for the direct debit scheme operator, BACS, and in relation to 
cancellations it says these can be done  by a consumer contacting their bank or building 
society. It says:
Money shouldnt be collected  from your account  after you have cancelled  and under the
Scheme rules, an organisation  would have to obtain your authority  to reinstate a cancelled  
Instruction.
And in the frequently asked questions section it says:
Can  money be collected from my account after I have cancelled  a Direct Debit Instruction?
No. The organisation would have  to get your authority to reinstate a cancelled Instruction.
Ref: DRN56329472But Mrs J didnt give her authority for the instruction to be reinstated, and didnt give 
permission for a new one to be set up. Shed explicitly  cancelled  the contract  she had with 
the company so there shouldve been  no claim for any further  payments  as it was no longer 
providing her with a service. 
NatWest said that its only the middleman in the direct debit process  and that it accepts 
payment requests and allows them to be deducted from its customers  accounts.  But I didnt 
think this took away  its responsibility when one of its customers has removed  their authority 
for the direct debit  instruction.
I thought Mrs J was clear that she was removing the authority for payments  from that 
particular company to be collected from her NatWest account. She cancelled this same 
instruction two further times and NatWest  refunded the payments. So I thought  it shouldve  
been reasonably aware that she wanted it to remain cancelled and I didnt think NatWest 
shouldve allowed this particular  direct  debit to be reinstated  without Mrs Js authority.
I said NatWest  had refunded the unauthorised payments under the direct debit guarantee, 
and this seemed  to have been done within a reasonable timeframe of Mrs J letting it know  
she disputed them. But I thought Mrs J was caused upset and inconvenience through the 
matter, and was left concerned that money could be collected from her account again.
So I said I thought  NatWest should  take some reasonable steps to make  sure Mrs Js direct 
debit instruction for this originator isnt reinstated without Mrs Js permission in so far as is 
reasonable practicable, such  as making a note on her account file, or putting an alert on its 
internal systems. I also said NatWest  should also pay Mrs J £150 for the upset she was 
caused. 
the responses
Both NatWest and Mrs J responded to say that they had received my provisional decision 
but had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs J nor NatWest had any further comments to make in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc to 
take some  reasonable steps to make sure Mrs Js direct debit instruction for this originator 
isnt reinstated  without  Mrs Js authority and pay her £150 for the upset shes  been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5632947