K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms T complain that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited  (LV) declined 
their motor insurance claim following the theft of Ms Ts car.
 Mr W complains on behalf of them  both.  
background
Mr W had comprehensive cover on a car owned  by Ms T. Last year, Mr W parked the car on 
a high level of a secure car park. When he returned  later that evening,  the car had been 
stolen. It was later found burnt out in a different location. 
Mr W made a claim to LV. When making  the claim,  he explained that the spare key had 
been concealed in a bag in the boot of the car, which  had then been  locked  when he left it. 
LV declined the claim and relied  on the exclusion in Mr Ws policy which  states claims wont  
be covered if the ignition  device  is left inside the car. Mr W feels  this clause  is ambiguous as 
it doesnt specifically  state the key should  be left in the car. Also, having parked in the 
same location many  times  before, Mr W felt there was no reason to believe there was any 
risk of the car being  stolen.  He also felt he had taken enough steps  to make sure the spare 
key was in a safe and secure place.  
Our investigator reviewed  the case and didnt feel LV had done  anything wrong in declining 
the claim.  While he sympathised with Mr Ws situation, he thought the terms of the contract  
had been highlighted correctly and that it was most likely the car was stolen using the key in 
the boot. 
Mr W disagrees. He feels the term in the policy doesnt do enough to state  the key shouldnt  
be left in a car. He also believes  he mitigated  any risk by concealing the key in a bag in the 
boot, and he feels there is no evidence to show the key was used during the theft of the car. 
Because of this, the case has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide is whether LV have acted  fairly, and in line with their policy terms.
Under the significant exclusions or limitations,  Mr Ws policy  states:
We will not pay a claim if your car is left unlocked, or if the ignition key or ignition device is 
left in, on, or attached, or the engine is left running or left with a window/roof  open.
I understand Mr W finds this clause ambiguous, but I feel its clear enough to indicate  that if 
a key is left inside the car itself (rather  than just in the ignition slot), cover  wont  be provided. 
Ref: DRN51180102Mr W has said there is no evidence to show the key had any bearing  on the theft of the car. I 
understand theres nothing specific showing this, but as the key was left inside the car, on 
balance, Im minded  to believe  its likely  that it contributed to the theft. 
I realise Mr W believed he was mitigating any risk by keeping the spare key safe in a bag in 
the boot of the car, and I really do empathise with the fact the car was stolen  from what 
seemed to be a safe and secure  area.  But I do need  to be fair, and as the key was inside the 
car I feel LV can reasonably apply the above  policy  exclusion and decline the claim thats 
been made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5118010