K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) set up more  than 
one life insurance policy in her name.  
background
In 2003 Mrs J and her husband took advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA)  
about taking out life insurance. The adviser sold policies to them  and completed online 
applications for L&G on their behalf.  Mrs J says two policies were set up in her name and 
she has been paying for both for many  years. Mrs J says L&G should have noticed  there  
were two policies. She feels that the policies  were mis-sold to her and would like L&G to 
refund the premiums.
L&G say they did not sell the policies,  they were sold by the IFA. Two separate applications 
came through on their online system  at different  times  (being  a few weeks  apart)  and these 
policies were set up in accordance with the instructions given in the applications. L&G point 
out that no application to cancel the policies  has been made since  the policies were  
incepted.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He didnt think L&G had done  anything wrong as 
they set up the policies  as requested and continued to administer them. Our adjudicator  took 
into account that L&G hadnt  sold the policies to Mrs J and had not provided her with advice 
about the policies. 
Mrs J does not agree with the view reached by the adjudicator, so the matter has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed these polices were sold to Mrs J by a third party,  IFA, so any mis-sale complaint  
would fall against them. L&Gs involvement was limited  to setting up the policies and then 
running their administration. 
L&G received the applications through their online portal, the applications were  sent weeks 
apart. As our service does not have any regulatory or disciplinary powers, were not able to 
direct a business as to how it should  operate its application process.  Im satisfied that L&G 
processed the applications as requested and Mrs J accepts that separate payments were  
made for them.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs J did not request the policies to be cancelled despite 
making separate payments  for them for many years, so L&G continued to administer the 
policies again  in line with the instructions  theyd  received.
I appreciate Mrs J now believes an error was made when the policies were applied  for, but 
for the reasons given, I cant  say that was down to L&G. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J, but I 
wont be asking L&G to do anything more.
my final decision
Ref: DRN56599242For the reasons  given,  I wont be upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5659924