K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Dudley Building  Society  (DBS)  sold his property for less than it 
was worth.  He is asking  to be compensated for his losses.
background
Mr H owned a property  which  was mortgaged to DBS. Mr H was made bankrupt  in June 
2013. On 18 December 2013  Mr Hs Trustee  in Bankruptcy issued a Notice  of Disclaimer  in 
relation to the mortgaged property. On 31 January 2014 the property was repossessed  by 
DBS. It was sold on 1 October 2014 for £11,000. 
After costs of sale were deducted,  there  was a small shortfall  partly  due to the Trustee in 
Bankruptcys failure to pay disbursements due to DBSs solicitors on the sale of another  
property in Mr Hs portfolio when the Trustee  sold that property.  The shortfall was recovered 
from Mr Hs bankruptcy estate.
Mr H believes  the sale price was far less than the property was worth and that DBS was 
negligent in the way it sold the property. Mr H says that if DBS had marketed the house 
properly, it would have  sold for between £30,000  and £35,000.
DBS didnt think it had done anything wrong so Mr H brought  his complaint to us where  it 
was considered by an investigator.  The investigator didnt think DBS had undertaken a 
valuation of the property. He also noted  that Mr H had provided a desktop  valuation which 
said the property  should have been  worth £30,000  to £35,000. But he discounted a survey 
carried out two weeks after the repossession commissioned for an interested third party  
(possibly a housing association)  because it had been done  on behalf of a potential buyer.
The investigator upheld  the complaint. He asked DBS to pay Mr H £19,000, plus 8% simple 
interest from October 2014  to the date of payment. He also asked Dudley to pay £500 
compensation for trouble  and upset and to write  a letter  of apology to Mr H for what  he said 
was a failure to follow guidelines when selling the property.
DBS didnt agree with the investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint.
provisional decision
On 4 February 2019 I issued a provisional decision,  because Id reached a different 
conclusion from the investigator.  I made  the following findings.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr H says the property was sold for far less than he 
thinks it was worth. So what I have to consider  is whether there is any 
contemporaneous evidence  that is, evidence available from the time of the events 
complained of  to provide an accurate valuation of the property.
In this respect, Ive noted there are two pieces of evidence from December 2013 and 
February 2014 which I consider to be important.
The first is an enforcement notice from the local housing authority, served under 
s.215 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (as amended)  dated 10 December 
2013. The notice  ordered Mr H to carry out urgent  external remedial work to the 
Ref: DRN50143222property, because its condition was so poor that it was adversely affecting  the 
neighbouring properties.
This type of action  is a last resort by a local authority. Given  this, Im satisfied that the 
exterior of the property was, a month  before the repossession, in a condition  that was 
so poor that the local authority considered  it necessary to have to force Mr H to put it 
into an acceptable state of repair. (As far as I am aware, Mr H didnt comply  with the 
notice.)
The second  piece of contemporaneous evidence  is a survey prepared for a third 
party. My enquiries lead me to conclude that the third party is possibly a housing 
association. The survey  was carried out on 26 February 2014, so less than a month 
after the property  was taken into possession.
Its a detailed report, running  to eleven  pages.  The surveyor  found the property to be 
in a poor condition,  with high levels of rising and penetrating dampness.  The 
surveyor said that the following work  needed  to be carried out as essential repairs:
roof replacement;
eradication of the rising and penetrating damp in the property;
testing of electrical installations;
testing of central heating and possible  boiler replacement;
guttering and rainwater goods  replacement;
renewal of all internal joinery;
replacement of external doors;
replacement of one of the windows;
replacement of the kitchen units;
replacement of the bathroom fittings;
re-plastering of walls;
re-skimming  of ceilings;
re-rendering to the rear elevation;
immediate replacement of two stone jambs and two stone  sills;
total redecoration throughout.
The surveyor said that a realistic valuation of the property in the state  it was in on 26 
February 2014 would be £15,000-£20,000. He included comparable properties in his 
valuation, but was satisfied that the poor state  of repair meant that the property 
wasnt worth  as much as similar  properties in the area. He thought the maximum  sale 
price would be £20,000.
So Im satisfied that there is a very detailed report of the condition  of the property 
from the time it was repossessed. Im entitled to rely on this as an accurate record.  
Its irrelevant that it was prepared for a third party, not DBS. It is a professional 
opinion carried out by an independent  surveyor,  a member of the Royal  Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors.
Ive noted the retrospective valuation provided  by Mr H. This is a desktop valuation. 
In other  words, the person  providing  the valuation didnt inspect the property. Instead 
he thought about what the property might have been worth in 2014, based on his 
experience of other properties in the area.  Although  this valuation was given in good 
faith, I think its unlikely  the surveyor was made aware either of the enforcement 
Ref: DRN50143223notice from December 2013 or the survey carried out in February 2014, which  
provided a more accurate reflection of the state of the property at the date of 
repossession.
The property was marketed for £15,000.  Because Im satisfied that the property was 
in a poor state of repair, I think this is realistic. DBS was under a duty to get the best 
price possible  in all the circumstances.  But DBS wasnt under any obligation  to leave 
the property unsold for a long period of time in the hope that a better price might  be 
achieved, at the same time as interest continued to accrue against the unpaid debt. 
This is particularly so given that the property  needed  urgent  repairs  and was likely  to 
deteriorate still further if left unsold.
An offer of £11,000 was made  in May 2014. The sale didnt complete until six months  
later, on 1 October  2014.  If thered been  any other  interested  parties willing to pay 
more, Im satisfied there was sufficient time for them to have made a higher offer.
Given there was a detailed survey  passed to DBS,  I dont  criticise DBS simply 
because there arent two separate  estate agents valuations. If, as Mr H contends, 
the property was worth £35,000, Id have expected it to have been snapped up 
immediately once it was marketed for £15,000. That it didnt  sell for some months  
even at that price   is persuasive evidence that the property wasnt worth  more than 
the £11,000 eventually paid for it.
In the circumstances, I dont think DBS sold the property at an undervalue.
responses to the provisional  decision
DBS accepted my provisional decision.  Mr H did not. Hes provided  his detailed comments. I 
summarise those relevant  to the complaint issues (as opposed to Mr Hs criticisms of my 
handling of the complaint)  below:
DBS didnt carry out any marketing of the property;
the council  introduced  the buyer to DBS. As a result DBS didnt follow  any of the 
protocols or FCA rules;
I was wrong to use the surveyors report because there should have been two 
independent valuations before the property was marketed;
the property  was in a similar state  of repair to the one next door;
other properties in the street had s.215 notices served on them;
I have attached too much importance to the s.215 notice;
the property  next door was sold for £32,880.98
if DBS had marketed  the property at £20,000 and issued a public notice of any offer,  
then he would be happy with the price it obtained;
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive revisited my provisional decision and noted all the 
points Mr H has made in response  to it. Ive also taken account  of the relevant law and 
industry practice. Whilst Ive taken  note of the law, Im not obliged to follow it. What I am 
required to do is decide what  is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
Ref: DRN50143224Ive taken note of all the additional points Mr H has made. But Im not required to comment  
on each and every point. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service,  our rules allow me to 
concentrate on what I consider to be the main  issues in the complaint. So if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. Rather  than get bogged down in minutiae, Ive taken a step 
back here and looked  at the broad picture.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues in order  to decide  
what I think is fair and reasonable.
I have also obtained  further information from DBS in the form of its conveyancing file. As this 
is between DBS and its solicitors, I am entitled  to treat it as confidential,  because  any advice 
given to DBS by its solicitors is subject  to legal professional privilege.
Although local estate agents  were involved at the point  the property was taken into 
possession, they were not involved  in the sale of the property. So Mr H is correct to say that 
the property wasnt  marketed in the usual way. But the reason for this is a compelling one; 
Mr Hs Trustee in Bankruptcy had disclaimed the property as onerous property.
The Insolvency Act 1986 at s.315(2) describes onerous property as any property forming 
part of the estate, which is unsaleable, or not readily saleable, or which may give rise to a 
liability to pay money or perform any other  onerous act.
There was, as I have  noted,  a notice under s.215  of the Town & Country Planning  Act 1990 
on the property  from December 2013,  ordering Mr H to undertake work to bring the property 
into an acceptable condition. He hadnt done this work. The Trustee in Bankruptcy  was also 
aware of the condition  of the property.  
The Trustee decided  this was an onerous asset, pursuant to s.315(2) of the Insolvency Act 
1986. He handed the property over to DBS to sell as mortgagee in possession.
This was a leasehold  property, and so the implications of disclaiming the property for DBS 
were serious. Thats because a disclaimer of leasehold property means that the lease comes 
to an end  that is, it ceases to exist, and the property reverts back  to the freeholder. In that 
case, DBS would have no security  for the loan.
But the Insolvency Act 1986 offers protection to third party  derivative interests (such as 
mortgagees) by allowing  the lease to continue provided the mortgagee complies with the 
tenants covenants. As a result, DBS had to pay arrears of ground rent and recovery  costs, 
following a demand  from the freeholder in order to avoid court action by the freeholder.  The 
freeholder also allowed DBS to exercise  its power of sale.
A local housing  association approached DBS and offered to purchase  the property for 
£11,000. As I stated  in my provisional decision,  the survey  report  provided to DBS  carried  
out on behalf of the housing association, but by an independent surveyor  showed that the 
property needed  extensive repair and refurbishment  to bring it into a habitable  condition.  The 
housing association said that its offer took into account the amount itd need  to spend on 
repair and refurbishment.
This was also not a straightforward sale. I note from the conveyancing file that there  were  
issues with both the leasehold  title to the property  and with rights of way to the rear of the 
property (where there  were none  included in the legal title). Both of these matters  required 
separate indemnity policies which DBS had to pay for. DBS also had to pay the local 
Ref: DRN50143225authority to remove a land charge  under the Environmental Protection Act 1990, as well as 
the Town  and Country Planning Act 1990  notice.
 
What I have to decide is whether I consider DBS acted fairly and reasonably in relation to 
this matter. Generally  there is a process  which lenders follow when a property is taken into 
possession, with a property being  marketed  by agents and advertised.  DBS didnt  do this. 
Ive taken note of the relevant case law in respect of the sale of property by a mortgagee in 
possession. DBS was under  a duty to take reasonable  care to sell for the best price 
reasonably obtainable at the date of exchange of contracts. This doesnt  mean  DBS was 
under an obligation to leave the property unsold  for a period of time to see if a higher offer 
might be made. Interest continued to accrue  on the debt.
DBS didnt advertise  the property, which it probably  ought to have done. But I think that, 
even if it had done so, its unlikely to have resulted in the property being sold at the price 
Mr H believes  was its market value - £30,000-£35,000.
I say this because  there  were so many issues with this property that adversely affected its 
saleability and value:
the condition  of the property;
the amount  and cost of the work  needed to make it habitable;
issues with the leasehold title;
the absence  of any right of way to the rear of the property included in the title.
Given this, Im not persuaded DBS acted  unreasonably in not advertising the property. I think  
its unlikely to have  resulted  in a buyer coming  forward to offer the £30,000  Mr H thinks the 
property was worth.
I say this because  Ive also looked  at comparable properties. I think the most accurate 
comparables for this property are the house next door, which  was sold in June 2014  for 
£30,000, and one across the road which had one less bedroom and which sold for £24,000 
in April 2014. 
Given the amount  of work required to make  this property habitable, I think  the costs of repair  
and refurbishment would have been quite substantial. So in all the circumstances,  I think  the 
sale price of £11,000 was not unreasonably, taking into account what needed to be spent on 
it  and compared with the sale prices of other properties in the same street which  were  sold 
at the same  time.
So in the particular circumstances of this case  which are fairly unique   and taking into 
account everything both parties have said, relevant law and industry  practice, I dont think  
DBS acted unfairly or unreasonably when  it sold the property as mortgagee in possession.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Ref: DRN50143226Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5014322