K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim under his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr C is assisted in this complaint by a representative, but for ease of reference I shall refer 
to any representations shes made  as being made by Mr C. 
Mr C had motor insurance  with Admiral. He had a car accident on 21 December 2018 and 
reported it to Admiral. Admiral accepted the claim,  declared the car a write-off  and 
cancelled the policy.
About two weeks after Mr C had sent in photographs of the damage, Admiral offered to pay 
Mr C £3,296 based on a vehicle valuation  of £5,800, minus £250 excess and £1,624  for 
salvage costs.  But Mr C rejected the offer. He wasnt happy the car had been declared  a 
total loss without having been assessed, asking  for it to be assessed in a garage and 
repaired if possible. 
Admiral told him hed have to take the car to the garage, but the garage said it couldnt repair  
the car once  it had been declared a total loss. So, it was agreed the car would be assessed 
by an independent engineer to enable Mr C to decide whether to have it repaired. The 
engineer concluded the car was a category N total loss and Mr C was asked if he wanted  to 
proceed with the offer.  He was also told he was entitled to £150 for the recovery fee and 
£250 for 7 days hire car ancillary from the date he received payment for the car.
But Mr C wasnt  satisfied, stating he wanted £6,320  for the car, as this was the value given 
by the independent  engineer. Admiral  explained  its valuation was based  on the market value 
and background  history  of the car, but it eventually agreed to pay Mr C £6,320 (it initially 
deducted the excess from this sum but agreed  to repay it when  Mr C said that the excess  
had already been deducted from the valuation), £250 for hire car ancillary and £150 for the 
recovery fee.
Mr C complained to Admiral. He was unhappy  he was left without a hire car over the 
Christmas period. He wanted to know  why he wasnt offered a hire car once his car was 
declared a write-off, and why hed had to wait for it to be declared a total loss even though it 
was declared a write-off  from the outset. He was also unhappy that when he was given  a 
hire car, it had been delivered to the wrong  address  and hed had to arrange for it to be 
collected. And he questioned how he could have a hire car as he was only 20 years old.  
He asked why hed had to send  in photographs of the car and how the car could have been 
declared a total loss before it was assessed.  He wanted to know which  category  the car was 
placed in and why 28% was deducted from the settlement for salvage costs. He also said 
there was no mention  of the £150 that he paid for the car to be towed away.
He wanted to know why he was told to take the car to the garage,  and he was unhappy  he 
was twice told the car would be collected, but that didnt happen. He was also unhappy the 
independent engineer failed to call back and confirm the collection time and that he was told 
to request a copy of the engineers report from Admiral.
Ref: DRN53255752He queried why the photos that were sent on 22 December 2018 werent received and why it 
took Admiral so long to review the claim. He asked  why the policy was cancelled  as soon as 
he reported the incident and why he wasnt told about the cancellation  until 3 January 2019.  
He also asked why the policy couldnt  be reinstated. He explained the only time Admiral  had 
tried to contact him was on 24 December 2018,  and he said it later lied about having  tried to 
call him on 4 January  2019. He was also sent correspondence on 3 January that wasnt on 
letter-headed paper. Finally, he said three  payments had arrived in his account on 14 
January, yet he was told the payments had been processed and paid on 11 January. And he 
felt an email sent on 14 January was sarcastic.
Admiral upheld the complaint in part. It explained  that when the incident was first reported, 
its agent had felt the car would be a total loss as both air bags had been deployed. It said it 
didnt always arrange for cars to be inspected, which is why it initially  arranged to it to be 
picked up by a salvage agent.  It explained  it had been declared a category N total loss, 
meaning non-structural total loss.
It explained it hadnt received the photographs  in the initial emails from Mr C and that its IT 
department had been unable to identify why that was. It accepted this had held up the claim 
and that it should have  given clearer timescales relating to when the pictures would be 
reviewed. It also explained  that when a car is written off, its system automatically  cancels the 
policy. But it accepted  it didnt tell Mr C about the cancellation until 3 January 2019. It said it 
should have been made clear that the policy couldnt be reinstated because the car was a 
total loss and there were 30 days left on the policy, which meant  it couldnt  be renewed.
Admiral explained  the claim was further delayed because, while it had been  satisfied there  
was a total loss, Mr C had wanted  the car to be assessed because he was considering 
whether to keep  it. And it had waited for the photographs to confirm  the salvage category. It 
said as both air bags  had deployed, Mr C should  never have been told hed need to take the 
car to the garage himself.  
It explained he should have been  given a hire car as he wasnt disputing it was a total loss, 
he simply wanted it to confirm the level of damage  before  he considered keeping the car.
It accepted Mr C had to chase information  concerning the hire car insurance and explained  
the minimum age of 21 years generally applied to private hire. It accepted  hed been  given 
misinformation concerning when the three  payments had been made. It also accepted the 14 
March email was sarcastic and agreed  he was entitled to a refund of £5.91 for the ancillary 
parts of the policy.
It said it had been  unable to send the 4 January letter on a letterhead because it was 
attached to an email,  and it explained  the complaint  about the delivery address was under 
investigation, but it accepted what Mr C had said about the communications with the 
independent engineer. 
Admiral offered to pay Mr C £10 per day for loss of use (of the hire car) between  24 
December and 4 January.  It also offered  £20 for phone and administration costs and £200 
for the trouble and upset  caused by its handling of the claim. It said 8% interest totalling 
£21.27 would be added to the settlement because he didnt  have access to the £150 
recovery fee and £6,320  settlement.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He was unhappy the final 
decision letter wasnt  on headed paper and that it had grammatical errors. Hes unhappy the 
Ref: DRN53255753cost of the hire car was deducted from the compensation and the fact he was using a 
nightclub and would have been  drinking  was deducted from the settlement for loss of use.
Our investigator accepted Admiral should  have given Mr C a hire car at the outset and that 
its failure to do so caused him a period of inconvenience  which  was exacerbated by the fact 
he was left without  a car over the Christmas period. He also acknowledged there were 
avoidable delays  and poor communication,  which added  to the inconvenience. But he was 
satisfied the compensation Admiral had offered was fair.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman  and so its been passed 
to me to review. He reiterated he was unhappy  Admirals final response  wasnt on headed  
paper, the fact Admiral considered he would have been drinking during the period he was 
without a hire car and the fact he was lied to.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusions  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr C has raised  some  concerns about  the salvage  fee, but I note it wasnt deducted from the 
final settlement and Im satisfied thats fair.
Mr C has asked why he had to send in photographs and how the car could have been 
declared a total loss without it having been assessed. Its not unusual  for insurers  to assess  
whether a car should be written off or not by reviewing photographs  and its fair that they do 
so. Admirals explained its agent had concluded  the car was a write-off because  both air 
bags had deployed. I understand why Mr C might think  cars should be assessed  but Im 
satisfied Admirals acted  fairly  in this respect. 
Its unfortunate Mr C wasnt given the use of a hire car and that this coincided  with the 
Christmas period. He chose to include additional  hire car cover  when  he took out the policy, 
and he was entitled to a hire car when  his car was written off. So, Admiral  should have 
provided him with a hire car when it wrote the car off on 22 December, but it didnt do so. 
Admiral has explained  he wasnt  given a hire car because hed wanted the damage to be 
assessed so he could decide  whether to retain it, but it accepts that as the car had been 
deemed a total loss, he should have been  given a hire car. Its offered to pay him £10 per 
day for loss of use between 24 December and 4 January, and that its in line with what I 
would have awarded. 
Mr C has complained about the inconvenience he experienced as a result  of not having had 
a hire car. But Admiral  refunded some  of his travel expenses and made a payment for loss 
of use (which also incorporates expenses resulting from not having  a hire car), so Im 
satisfied its already done more than wed expect it to.
Mr C wanted to know why he was told he must wait for the car to be declared a write-off  but 
later told it was declared a total loss on 21 December. Admirals explained the car was 
declared a total loss from the outset, but the claim was complicated because  hed wanted 
the car to be assessed. I think things should  have been made much clearer  throughout and 
that Mr Cs been  inconvenienced  by Admirals poor handling  of the claim and poor 
communication and that he should be compensated for trouble  and upset this caused him.
Ref: DRN53255754Mr C is unhappy he was told to take the car to the garage,  in particular because there was a 
booking for it to be collected  the following day. Admiral accepts  he shouldnt have been  told 
to drive the car, especially  as the airbags had deployed.  I understand  Mr C is frustrated, but 
the car was eventually  collected, so I think this was something which  added  to the confusion 
at the start of the claim rather than something that put him at risk or caused him any 
inconvenience or financial loss.
Mr C also queried why the photos that were sent on 22 December  werent received and 
Admiral has explained  its IT department has been unable to identify why that was. Im 
satisfied this explanation, while frustrating, is reasonable. I consider it added to the delays 
and Ive taken  it into account in my consideration of the compensation below. 
Admirals also explained  the claim was further  delayed by the fact Mr C had wanted the car 
to be assessed  so he could consider whether to retain it. While I accept the communications  
around the assessment were handled badly by Admiral, it was Mr Cs choice to ask for the 
assessment and, as it was Christmas, its inevitable it would take longer than usual to 
inspect the car. So, I cant hold it wholly  completely responsible for the delays that followed. 
Admirals explained  the policy cancelled automatically as soon as the car was declared a 
write-off. In these circumstances, this service  expects insurers  to leave the policy  open for a 
period of time to allow the policyholder to replace  the car, so it didnt act fairly here. But the 
policy had been  due for renewal on 28 January 2019, so Im not persuaded hes lost out as a 
result of the policy having been cancelled.
Mr C is unhappy he was sent a letter that wasnt on headed  paper,  but I dont think that lead 
to any financial loss or any inconvenience  for which he should be compensated. Im also 
satisfied it was correct  that he was told hed need to request  a copy  of the engineers report  
from Admiral.  But hes explained the only time Admiral tried to contact him was on 24 
December and I dont  think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Overall, I accept  this claim was handled  badly and that Mr C has suffered unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience as a result. In considering what would be fair compensation Ive 
taken into account  the fact he was left without a car over the Christmas  period, the fact the 
hire car was delivered  to the wrong address, and that he had to arrange  for it to be collected. 
Ive also taken into account the fact he was told on two occasions his car would be collected 
by the garage, but that didnt happen,  nor did the independent engineer call back  and 
confirm the collection  time. Additionally, Admiral accepts an email it sent on 14 January was 
sarcastic and that, overall the claim was handled  poorly.
Admiral has agreed Mr C should have received the payments sooner, but its agreed to pay 
interest on those payments, and Im satisfied  thats  fair. 
In resolution of this complaint, Admiral has offered £120 for loss of use of the hire car, £20 
for phone and administration costs, £200  for trouble  and upset, £5.91 refund for the ancillary 
parts of the policy and £21.27 interest.  Having considered the impact its failings had, Im 
satisfied thats  fair and reasonable  and in line with the sorts of award this service  normally 
offers. Admiral also paid £125 compensation to Mr Cs representative,  but I cant  consider 
that as shes not an eligible consumer in this case.
Ref: DRN53255755my final decision
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  has already paid £367.18 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  should pay Mr C £367.18.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5325575