K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent money  to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr P entered into three  loans with Lending  Stream  
between October 2012 and October 2014. Each  loan was repayable over six instalments.
Mr P says that at the time the loans were  provided  he was in a spiral of debt. He says 
lending to him was irresponsible. 
Lending Stream says that before loans are provided it carries out affordability and credit 
worthiness checks.  It says that two of the loans were repaid. It says its checks  were 
proportionate and didnt raise concerns about  the affordability of the loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that based on the information gathered 
he didnt think it proportionate for Lending Stream to ask for the amount of information 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.
Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that the loans were taken out at the same  
time as he was taking  out other  loans  and that his complaints in regard to his other  loans 
had been upheld. He said his bank  statements  from the time showed he had multiple loans.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
I note the comments hat Mr P has made  about other  complaints being upheld  but each case  
is assessed based on its individual merits. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr P could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
Ref: DRN50980332ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The first two loans in this case were  provided  before CONC. At that time the relevant 
guidance was provided by the Office of Fair trading  (OFT) and this also set out the need  to 
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  repayments  in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P entered into three loans. The first was entered into in October 2012 and repaid in 
January 2013.  The checks carried out before the loan suggested it was affordable.  Given 
this was Mr Ps first loan I think the checks were proportionate.
Mr P repaid  his first loan and then took out a second. This was repaid within the same 
month. Given the size of the scheduled repayments  compared to Mr Ps declared income 
and as this was only his second loan I think the checks were proportionate.
Mr P didnt then take out another loan with Lending  Stream until October  2014.  He had 
repaid his previous loans without issues being raised and then had a break before borrowing 
again. Therefore  I dont  think  it reasonable at this stage to expect Lending  Stream  to 
consider he was reliant on short  term lending. 
Overall, given the number  of loans, the repayment history and the repayments required I find 
the checks carried out were proportionate. While I can see the credit check did show  some 
adverse data I dont  think this alone would have required further checks to have been  carried  
out. As the checks  undertaken suggested the loans were affordable  I do not I have enough  
evidence to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5098033