K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (Clydesdale) has 
dealt with a claim he made  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In 2014 Mr D entered into an agreement with a company called Solar Electricity  Systems 
(SES) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The cost of the system  was 
£6,995 and was paid for with a loan arranged with Clydesdale (trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance).
The loan was taken  over a 10-year term, and with interest the total cost was just over 
£11,000.  
The solar  panels  produce benefits  in the form of energy savings and Feed-in Tariff (FIT) 
payments from selling excess energy back to the grid. Represented  by a firm of solicitors,  Mr 
D says that he was told by SES that the financial benefits generated by the system would 
cover the cost of the loan and make  it self-funding.
Mr D is unhappy that the system hasnt produced the financial benefits  he was expecting.
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held jointly and severally liable to the same extent as 
the supplier of goods for any misrepresentation or breach of contract.  So, Mr Ds solicitors 
made a s.75 claim to Clydesdale.
Clydesdale investigated  and said that there was no evidence to show that SES had 
misrepresented the system to Mr D.  As it didnt uphold the complaint Mr D referred it to this 
Service to look at.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and recommended the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.  In summary, she agreed  there  was nothing  to show the system was represented to 
Mr D as being self-funding and noted that the energy generated by the system wasnt  too 
different than the estimate stated on the MCS certificate at installation.
The solicitors representing  Mr D disagreed and responded with several points:
The assessment  is not fair and reasonable as offer of compensation have been 
made on other complaints involving the same  businesses.
The sales person  gave Mr D verbal  reassurances that the system would be self-
funding.
There was a sales presentation video given to Mr D and other customers  which  set 
out the guarantees given  about  the financial benefits  of the solar panel system.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her mind and said she didnt consider the 
video presentation  misrepresented  the system  benefits.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has now been referred to me to carry out 
a fresh  review and make a final decision.
Ref: DRN50543472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for much  the same reasons.
There must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  for a valid s.75 claim to 
exist.  Im  satisfied the relationship exists in this case, and Clydesdale  has accepted that, so 
I wont expand further.
The key issue for me to decide is whether the system was misrepresented to Mr D by SES.   
To decide that, Ive considered the information available  from the time of sale,  and what both 
parties have said.
I understand Mr D says he was told that the system would be self-funding.  Im also aware 
that many  suppliers of solar panel systems around  that time marketed the fact solar  panels 
would pay for themselves.   Whilst I take that into account generally, in this complaint Im not 
looking at what happened in other  cases, but Im deciding what I think was represented to 
Mr D by SES.
The documentation  from the time of sale in Mr Ds complaint doesnt provide any suggestion  
the system would be self-funding.  The marketing material Ive seen does talk about  free 
electricity and of course thats what the solar  system generates,  but I believe thats different 
to a representation that loan costs would be covered.
Ive reviewed the video  presentation provided by Mr Ds solicitors.  It provides an overview of 
solar panel  systems, including information  about  the generation of electricity and how export  
tariffs work. But theres  no representation  to say that the system  would be cost neutral  if 
paying for it using  a loan.
Whilst the video  does say the system  is guaranteed  to make you money, Im persuaded it 
should have been sufficiently clear  to Mr D that it means the panels will save  on energy 
costs and generate  an income from FIT payments.  Im also mindful that this was a general 
marketing video, aimed not only at customers purchasing solar  panels using loan funds, but 
also from other sources.  
The video presentation also explains that the performance of the system and the amount of 
energy generated depends upon a number of factors, and so makes it clear that the benefits 
can vary between installations.
Ive also considered the specific expectations  that were given  to Mr D.  The MCS certificate 
issued to him when  the panels  were  installed estimated that the system would generate 
2,464Kwh per year.  The actual performance of the system and energy generated from the 
statements Ive seen,  show that the estimated level of generation hasnt been achieved  and 
is in fact around 10% lower than stated.  But given  Mr D was provided the figure as an 
estimate (and not a guarantee),  I dont  think it would be reasonable to say the level of 
underperformance amounts to a misrepresentation to him.
I realise Mr D is likely to be disappointed  with my conclusion. But based upon everything  Ive 
seen and have  reviewed impartially, Im not persuaded  its reasonable for me to conclude  a 
misrepresentation was made to him by SES.  As a result, it wouldnt be fair of me to direct  
Clydesdale to do anything  further  in relation to the s.75 claim.
Ref: DRN50543473my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint  against  Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5054347