K820x#14complaint
Ms S complaint is about a claim being declined on her pet insurance policy with Allianz 
Insurance Plc. She is unhappy the claim was declined  because Allianz believes her dog was 
ill with the condition claimed  for within 14 days of the policy start date, but the vet didnt 
diagnose the condition until several months after the policy start date. 
background
Ms S arranged a new pet insurance  policy for her dog, which started  on 18 December 2017.  
As with most policies  of this type it doesnt  cover  any pre-existing illnesses or any that start 
within the first 14 days of cover. In addition, if the owner declares any previous illnesses, 
Allianz may add exclusions to the policy. 
Ms S dog had suffered  from skin problems for some  time before the policy  was applied for. 
These problems were declared as part of the application and so Allianz added two 
exclusions for claims resulting from or connected with ear disorders or skin disorders. 
Shortly before the policy was applied for the dogs skin condition flared up and two weeks 
worth of steroid treatment  were given. On the day the policy  started Ms S took her dog to the 
vet again as she was suffering from additional symptoms. It was detailed  that the steroids 
had been stopped because the dog was wetting herself, she was drooling, looking 
nauseous, wasnt eating well and suffering from apparent weakness.  The notes indicate that 
the vet considered a better  balance  of medication for the skin conditions needed to be 
reached. Some suggestions regarding care of the dog were  made and it was decided to 
monitor for a few days.
On 22 December 2017, the treating vet detailed the dog was drooling less and its skin 
condition was better. Blood tests  were done  to check for renal and liver problems  these 
came back  ok. It was also documented: ? leishmania with a note to test for the condition in 
the new year. 
The next visit to the vet was in April 2018 at which time the notes said,  seems to be a 
textbook of leishmania  cutanea.  Tests were done  and the diagnosis was confirmed.  
In July 2018 Ms S made a claim for the cost of treatment  between 22 April 2018 and 27 July 
2018 for Leishmaniosis. On 28 September 2018  Allianz declined  the claim  because  it 
believed Ms S dog showed signs of their illness during  the first 14 days  of the policy starting.  
Ms S wasnt happy about the claim  decision  and complained. 
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when it had received the claim it had 
determined that the first clinical signs  of the condition claimed for were present  within  the 
first 14 days  after the policy had started. As such,  it was satisfied that its decision to decline 
the claim was correct.
Ms S referred her complaint to this service.  She said the visit in April 2018 was the first time 
the word leishmaniasis  was mentioned  and no testing  for the condition  had been done prior 
to that appointment. She also noted  that the condition hadnt  been documented as excluded  
when the policy renewed in 2018, so felt this indicated  she could claim for its treatment. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
She considered the evidence showed  that Ms S dogs condition  started  within the first 
Ref: DRN5589033214 days of the policy.  As such, Allianz  hadnt  acted inappropriately  when it had declined  the 
claim.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators  conclusions. She asked why Allianz hadnt said the dog 
was not covered straightaway so that she could have used the money from the policy  
premiums toward the cost of treatment. Ms S asked  why the policy had been renewed when 
the dog wasnt  covered.
Our investigator confirmed that the specific exclusions mentioned in the policy in December 
2017 had been based on the dogs medical  records at the time Ms S applied  for the policy. 
The condition claimed for hadnt been  diagnosed at that time, so it couldnt be excluded. As 
for why it wasnt added as an exclusion to the policy in 2018  when it renewed, Ms S already 
knew at that point the condition wasnt covered  because  of the 14-day exclusion. It wasnt  
necessary for it to be specifically excluded.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that the policy Ms S took out made it clear  that it wouldnt cover  pre-existing 
medical problems  or any that started  within  14 days of the policy starting.  It is normal  for pet 
insurance policies  not to cover such conditions. So the question I have to consider  is 
whether the evidence indicates that Ms S dog had the condition it was later diagnosed with, 
within that 14 day period.
I know this will disappoint Ms S, but I think there  is evidence the medical  condition  
diagnosed in April 2018 was symptomatic in December 2017. I say this as the vet at the time 
indicated in his notes that he believed  the symptoms the dog was suffering from may have 
been due to the condition  later diagnosed. It was detailed the dog needed  to be tested and 
when that happened a few months  later, the results were positive. 
It is clear Ms S was not aware of the problem at the time she applied for the policy. I think it 
is entirely plausible that the vet may not have told her what  he suspected  to be the cause of 
the symptoms she had reported in December 2017,  but that doesnt alter the fact that he 
thought that was the cause and it turns  out it was. As such, I dont consider Allianz  acted 
inappropriately when  it declined  the claim because the condition  being claimed for had 
started within 14 days of the policy starting.
Ms S has questioned  why, if the claim  was not going to be paid, Allianz continued  to collect 
premiums and renewed the policy in 2018.  Although the policy  may not have covered Ms S 
dog for the condition  diagnosed in April 2018, it might have covered other illnesses or 
injuries the dog suffered. As such there  was nothing wrong with the policy remaining in force 
or being renewed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 
15 August 2020.
Ref: DRN55890333Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5589033