K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in June 2000.  Mr H says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  of 
Mr Hs credit  card application form and it includes a separate  box for Mr H to sign if he 
wanted to take PPI. Although Mr H says he was unaware  of the PPI policy, hes signed 
the separate  PPI box, in addition to signing for the credit card itself. 
NatWest didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have  
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr H about  that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  . And I think thats  fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about the PPI not 
being right for him because of the sick pay he was entitled to and the savings he had. But as 
Ive explained  above, and as our adjudicator previously explained, NatWest  didnt 
recommend the policy. So it was up to Mr H to make the decision as to whether the policy  
was right for him. As he appears to have  done  that, this point  doesnt  change my decision.
Ref: DRN51339182my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5133918