K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 1989, Santander sold Mr and Mrs P a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments if Mr P was unable to work because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Santander doesnt still have all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago it took place. But its provided  a copy of the 
paperwork it says Mr and Mrs P would have completed in taking out the PPI. That included  a 
separate PPI application form requiring details of those to be insured and the monthly 
benefit. The form also included a direct debit instruction  for the monthly premium. 
Overall, I think its likely Mr and Mrs P would  have completed the form Santanders provided 
or something  similar. So it seems Mr and Mrs P would  have  known the PPI was optional and 
that it was only added after theyd agreed  to take it.
I think that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. That meant Santander  
needed to take steps  to ensure its advice was right for them.  Regardless  of what  steps it 
took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for them  in any case. 
For example, from what Mr and Mrs P have told us about their circumstances, Mr P was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  excluded  or 
limited cover  for either. Santanders  told us the monthly premium was £30 in 1993 and I cant 
see that Mr and Mrs P would have found  the cost unaffordable. 
It seems  as though Mr P was entitled to enhanced  sick pay from his employer for a time. But 
the PPI benefits  were  considerable  and would have paid out for much longer.  The policy 
covered him for unemployment too. The PPI would have allowed Mr and Mrs P to either 
retain the savings  theyd  built up or use them towards their other  living costs if Mr P wasnt 
working. Considering  Mr and Mrs P had entered into a long-term financial commitment that 
was secured against their home,  I think theyd have valued the extra security the PPI 
provided. 
Ref: DRN52284592Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs P enough information about  the PPI to allow 
them to decide  for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information 
it gave them could have  been better than it was. But, for much the same  reasons that I dont 
think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better  information  would  have 
changed their decision  to take it. I think they would still have thought it gave them  a useful 
benefit at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mr P have lost out because of how 
Santander sold them the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228459