K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs S arranged  a mortgage  with YBS in 2000. At the same time a PPI policy was set 
up that covered  Mr S only if he couldnt  work because of unemployment. The policy  would 
pay out £1,250 a month if a successful  claim was made.
Our adjudicator didnt  find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case. 
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they felt pressured into taking out the PPI in order to ensure their 
mortgage application was successful. And I accept that, many years later, this might  be how 
they remember the sale. But theres a difference between YBS encouraging them  to take out 
PPI and pressuring them to do so.
I havent seen  enough evidence to support  Mr and Mrs S recollections. Understandably after 
all this time, YBS hasnt  been able to provide everything from the sale. But the available 
paperwork shows the PPI was presented as optional insurance.  And theres nothing to 
suggest that they were told taking PPI would  improve their chances of getting the mortgage.
Having carefully considered this point, there isnt enough for me to conclude its more  likely 
than not YBS gave Mr and Mrs S the impression their mortgage  application  was less likely to 
be successful if they didnt take out PPI.
If YBS recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S it would have had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for it.  
It doesnt appear that Mrs S was working in 2000,  so they were reliant on Mr S income to 
meet the mortgage repayments, as well as their other household expenses. So if Mr S 
stopped receiving his income, its likely theyd have struggled financially. Mr S employer 
apparently provided  generous benefits  and he had access to other means  so, in the short-
term, theyre unlikely to have had any problems paying the mortgage if he lost his job. But if 
he was off work for a longer time, his income  would  stop. Having a PPI policy  that would at 
least mean the mortgage repayments were met seems like it would have been  useful.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But I think its likely they chose  to take it out  so it looks like they wanted 
Ref: DRN52282922this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr and Mrs S have said, including that YBS didnt take 
reasonable care to adhere to the relevant sales standards at the time, including  those set out 
in the Mortgage Code  and the Association of British Insurers General Insurance  Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers. 
While I accept there might have been shortcomings  in how YBS sold the PPI that in itself 
isnt reason enough for me to make an award  in favour of Mr and Mrs S. Thats because I 
also need to go on to consider what Mr and Mrs S are likely to have done had they been 
given appropriate  advice and information.  For the reasons given,  I dont think theyd have 
done anything  differently.   
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
   
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already  done so. YBS should also pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs S any extra  interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  if it hasnt already done so. 
Ref: DRN52282923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228292