K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland)  mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a regular premium  MPPI  policy in April 1996.  The policy covered Mr M 
only against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The policy  was sold in a meeting when 
Mr and Mrs M were  arranging a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M think the MPPI policy was mis-sold to them.  They say they had sufficient 
means so the policy was not suitable.  They  say they didnt ask for, want or need  it at the 
time of sale and didnt  know  that it had been added.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide much of the sales documentation that 
was used at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant  be 
sure how the policy was presented by Bank of Scotland to Mr and Mrs M and Ive not 
been able to see most of the original  sales documentation (such as the application 
form). So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mr and Mrs M were given a 
choice or not as to whether they should  have the MPPI policy (or whether it was 
added without their knowledge).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Bank  of Scotland sold these 
policies around  this time. Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection from 
Mr and Mrs M of how the policy was sold at the time of sale either. This is 
understandable considering the many years that have  passed.  So taking these points 
into consideration, I cannot  fairly  conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold in 
the way Mr and Mrs M say it was (that it was added without their knowledge). I just 
havent seen  enough to persuade me that this was the case. 
Moving on, I cant be sure if Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to                
Mr and Mrs M. But after reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt  look as if the 
MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mr M (as the sole policy  holder) anyway based  on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. 
I say this because  although Mr M says he would have had 16 weeks  worth of sick 
pay with his employer  at the time, and savings  of over £7000, I still think  the policy  
Ref: DRN56586172would have come  in useful and would  have paid in addition to his means, in what 
would be a difficult time. I think he and Mrs M would  have  found the policy  of some  
value especially as it was covering such an important financial commitment.  I think, 
on balance, Mr M had a need for this cover in addition  to his sick pay and savings. I 
also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting  term from the 
policy documents provided that would make  the policy  unsuitable for him either.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
policy that Mr and Mrs M took out but even though it has provided  information 
detailing the cover  and how much  it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs  were 
disclosed to Mr and Mrs M in a clear and fair way at the time of sale.  That said, even 
if they were disclosed clearly I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5658617