K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach  my conclusions  on the balance of probabilities   that 
is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  
surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mr S says the PPI was taken out alongside a store card, and he wasnt given a proper choice 
about buying it. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr S 
and the sales  person  when the policy was sold. But the store  card application form Mr S 
signed included  a separate section about  PPI that was completed to show that he wanted  the 
cover. So without anything else to support what Mr S has told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that he wasnt made  aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Mr S has told us he has a medical  condition that might not have been covered by the 
policy. But I understand that the condition is controlled by medication,  and that Mr S hasnt 
had to take significant periods  of time off work  because of it. So even if FICL had pointed out 
the policys exclusion for existing medical conditions,  on balance I dont think it wouldve 
changed Mr Ss decision  to buy the policy.  Thats because  it seems the likelihood  of him 
having to take time off work in connection  with his condition was relatively low. 
Mr S has also mentioned a part-time  job he has in addition to his main  job. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that he had more than one job when he took out the policy.  So this point 
doesnt change  my conclusions.
Overall, I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN57220972Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 14 February 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5722097