K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
S.A. declined his travel insurance  claim and about its service. My references to Mapfre  
include its agents.
background
On 4 June 2018 Mr H bought a single trip insurance policy, insured by Mapfre, for his holiday 
the following  month. In July 2018  he cancelled his holiday as sadly  his mother  passed away. 
He claimed for the cancellation of the holiday.
Mapfre declined the claim. When Mr H bought the policy Mr Hs mother had been in hospital 
from the end of May 2018. Shed been given  a terminal  prognosis the day after she was 
discharged, two days after Mr H bought  the policy. The medical certificate from her GP said 
she was stable though more frail when  Mr H bought the policy. Mapfre  said Mr Hs mothers  
health was worsening and there was an increased  risk as she was in hospital so there  was a 
level of foreseeability that Mr H would have  to cancel his holiday.
Mapfre accepted  it had taken too long to assess the claim and try to obtain the medical 
records from Primary Care Support England (which Mapfre  was later told were illegible). 
Under a separate complaint to us we awarded £300 compensation for Mr Hs distress and 
inconvenience due to Mapfres initial delay and it later offered an additional £300 
compensation for its further delay.
Mr H complained to us about Mapfres  claim decline  and service. He said he understood his 
mother went into hospital with a water infection and the consultant  told him his mother could 
live for another  year or more. He also said Mapfres errors and delays in asking for the 
hospital notes  means  its now over 18 months since his mother  passed  away and her GP 
told him s/he couldnt comment further on his mothers  medical history.
Our investigator thought Mapfre unfairly  declined the claim and the £600 compensation it 
had already paid was a reasonable amount for Mr Hs distress  and inconvenience.
Mapfre disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary it said:
as foreseeability is a principle of insurance it doesnt need to be specifically 
mentioned in the policy  terms
although the policy said a claim may be covered if Mr Hs mothers  GP confirmed 
there was no likelihood that her condition would deteriorate, its unlikely the GP would 
have said that given her condition  was deteriorating
it wanted Mr Hs permission to get the medical  records directly from the hospital to 
review his mothers health at the time he bought the policy  
wed made a decision  on another case that it had fairly relied on the relevant policy 
term.
Mr H said hed asked for the hospital records but he thought the GP's  comments in the 
medical certificate gave  enough information.
Ref: DRN57343952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  It should communicate information to consumers in a way which  
is clear,  fair and not misleading. It shouldnt reject  or limit a claim unreasonably.  
Im partly upholding this complaint. I think Mapfre unfairly declined  the claim but the £600 
compensation it paid was a reasonable amount for Mr Hs distress  and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service. Ill explain why.
At the time of making this decision weve not received the hospital medical records. But Im 
not going to delay my decision any longer as Ive enough evidence  to make a decision. Also 
its not fair for Mapfre to want Mr H to continue to wait for my decision when to a large extent 
its errors and delays in trying to obtain  his mother's  medical records means  we havent got a 
legible copy.
Mr Hs mother  primary  cause of death  was the cancer shed been  diagnosed with in 2015.
The policy says Mapfre wont cover a cancellation claim that results from:
any medical condition  you knew about at the time of taking  out this insurance or 
when booking a trip, and that affects
 A close relative   who is not travelling and is not insured under this policy
Subject to the terms and conditions, such claims may only be covered if the patients 
doctor is prepared to state that at the date you bought this policy or of booking  a trip, 
he/she would have seen no substantial likelihood of his/her patients  condition 
deteriorating to such a degree  that you would need  to cancel your trip. If the doctor 
will not confirm this, your claim is not covered. In the event of a claim the doctor  must  
complete the medical certificate on the claim form.
Ive seen Mapfres comments  about  why it thinks the policy doesnt have to mention 
foreseeability. But the policy term above  is clear about when a claim  may be covered and 
Mapfre cant reasonably  ignore  the term. 
Mr Hs mothers  GP completed Mapfres medical certificate  (as the policy requires) and 
answered the detailed questions Mapfre asked  on the form. Theres no question  that  
specifically asks if the GP can state  whether at the time Mr H bought the policy  the GP would 
have seen no substantial  likelihood of his/her patients condition  deteriorating to such  a 
degree that (Mr H) would  need  to cancel his holiday.
However, from the GPs  responses to the questions Mapfre did ask I think  theres enough 
evidence to show there wasnt a substantial likelihood of his mother health deteriorating to 
such a degree that Mr H would have to cancel his holiday.
I think the GPs evidence  is clear  that when Mr H bought the policy  his mother  was stable,  
albeit more frail than shed been  over the last three years since  the cancer was diagnosed. 
Mapfre has queried when  Mr H knew of his mother's terminal  diagnosis.  The GP says a 
terminal diagnosis was given two days after Mr H bought the policy  and Ive no reason to 
Ref: DRN57343953think the GP gave the wrong date.  I accept there was no terminal  diagnosis when Mr H 
bought the policy. The GP also says Mr Hs mother became unwell and died suddenly  in 
mid July, which doesnt suggest she had a gradual  expected decline from early  June.
On the medical  evidence  there is I think its probable that the GP didnt think Mr Hs mothers  
condition would deteriorate to such an extent that he would need to cancel the holiday.  
Mapfre referred to another case where  we said it could rely on the above  policy  term to 
decline a claim. That case wasnt finalised by an ombudsman's  decision but was settled on 
an investigators opinion.  Also I make my decision as to whats  a fair outcome  on the 
individual circumstances  of each case.
Mapfre's decline of the claim wasnt fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  It must  pay 
the claim subject to the remaining policy  terms, limits and any excess. It must add interest as 
Ive detailed below.
Mapfre took much too long to try to get the additional medical information and made errors 
which caused unreasonable  delays,  as its acknowledged. But I think  the £600 compensation 
Mapfres already paid is a reasonable amount to acknowledge the upset and trouble its poor 
service caused Mr H.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay 
Mr Hs claim subject to the remaining policy terms, limits and any excess. Interest* at 8% a 
year simple  must be added  from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros, S.A. considers  that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5734395