K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Santander UK Plc gave  her inadequate/incorrect information about the 
process for transferring her share-based ISA funds including the amount  of time this would 
take. This resulted in a loss of £900.
background
Mrs J asked a Santander  branch  advisor,  on 21 December 2018,  to help sell her shares and 
keep the money  in cash. She was told she would have to fill out a paper application and was 
sent a form to complete. The advisor pre-filled  the form before  sending it, instructing 
Santander to encash a minimum of £57,000 worth  of shares.
Santander wrote to her on 24 December  to say the transfer could not go ahead due to 
insufficient funds  as the value of her portfolio had fallen below £57,000.  Mrs J says that by 
this time her funds had fallen by £900. Mrs J subsequently spoke to a different advisor  who 
said she could complete the transfer  immediately and online.  The share sale went  ahead on 
31 December with Mrs J receiving £56,563.
Santander partially upheld Mrs Js complaint, admitting the advisor should not have put a 
specific figure in the sale form, paying her £50 in compensation  for this.
But it said the transfer could never have been  completed on 21 December  as Mrs J wanted  
to keep the money within her ISA wrapper and this required a completed  form with written 
declarations. The earliest  the form could have been  completed was 24 December and the 
earliest the transfer could have been done  would have been  27 December. At this point the 
value of her portfolio was £55,992. As a result  of the delay the transfer did not go ahead till 
11 January 2019  when  her funds were worth  £56,563.94. So she had actually benefitted 
from the delay, it said.
An investigator at this service did not feel her complaint should be upheld. He recognised  
that Santanders actions had resulted in a delay but accepted its s calculations  showing that 
Mrs J had not lost out as a result of the delay. He felt the price achieved  of £56,563 on 11 
January 2019  was realistically the best she couldve got in the circumstances. Given this, he 
felt Santanders  offer of £50 had been fair and reasonable.
Mrs J did not agree,  and explained in detail how the meeting in the branch took place, the 
nature of the conversation  she had with the advisor and what she told him about her wish to 
immediately encash/prevent  further losses on her investment.  In my view, Mrs Js account 
seems clear  and convincing and I do not think there  is significant  disagreement  about  what 
took place. I have therefore not provided  a detailed account of this event.
I did, however, ask Santander  for more information  about various points.  It spoke to the 
branch advisor  who said:
I made Mrs J aware that this could be done over the phone on a non-advised basis  or 
online, or Mrs J could move the funds into her existing Santander  cash  ISA. All these options  
were non-advised. (She)  opted to have  the funds placed into her existing Santander Cash  
ISA was well aware  this would take longer as we had to complete the form and send this 
off, I did call SAM UK to see if this could be done  any quicker  however  they said filling  in the 
form was the only way.
Ref: DRN57307652It also reiterated that customers could not freeze  investment  funds but could only encash  
them to prevent potential losses. Mrs J confirmed that she had chosen not to issue such  an 
instruction online via its Investment Hub. She could  also have contacted its specialist 
investment team by phone. Had she done so she would have received £56,139.09,  the price 
available on 24 December.
It also responded to various other queries  which I now feel are not relevant to the merits of 
this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that the advisor  wrongly filled out the form by putting a specific 
encashment sum which turned out to be higher than the investments value on the projected 
sale date. This resulted  in a delay as the form had to be rewritten and resubmitted.
But Im satisfied, from the evidence Ive seen, that Mrs J did not lose as a result  of this delay  
as the earliest  encashment date, however she had initiated the instruction to sell, was 24 
December. So even  if the advisor ought to have spelt out that the quickest guaranteed 
means to achieve  a sale was either  online or by calling the specialist  team and failed to do 
so Mrs J could not have encashed  her investment earlier than 24 December. That said,  I do 
not accept that the available evidence does necessarily show the advisor failed to do this.
As Mrs Js investment eventually  sold for a higher price than that available on 24 December 
she has not suffered  a loss. Given this, I am satisfied that Santanders initial off of £50 was 
not unreasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5730765