K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a regular  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
background
Mr K took out a credit card in September 2002.  Almost a year later after the credit card was 
agreed he was sold a PPI policy over the phone by Barclays. 
The policy cost 0.79p per £100  of the balance on Mr Ks credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr K was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  because  the policy 
was added some time after the credit card was taken out Mr K wouldve understood it was 
optional and that the policy provided  a useful benefit. 
Mr K disagrees, so the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr Ks 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr K he had a choice in taking the policy and that he chose 
to take it. The policy was sold over the phone almost a year after Mr Ks credit card account 
was opened. I dont know what was discussed  with Mr K at the time he was sold the policy 
but Ive seen a copy  of his original credit card application where he was given  the option to 
select to take PPI or decline it. I can see Mr K didnt select to take PPI at the time he applied 
for his credit  card. 
But because PPI was applied to Mr Ks account  months after the credit card account was 
opened and he was given the option  to take PPI on his credit card application, I think he 
wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And I think  PPI was 
likely applied  to his account because following a phone call with Barclays he chose to take it 
 I havent seen anything to suggest  otherwise. 
I dont know if Barclays recommended Mr K take the policy  so to be fair to Mr K I am going to 
treat the sale as if Barclays  advised Mr K to take the policy. What this means is that Barclays 
not only had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so 
that Mr K could make an informed choice about  buying it. It also had to make  sure that if it 
were to recommend  the policy that it was suitable  to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr K for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN57463072He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr K says he was entitled to sick pay which  he could use to 
make his repayments if he couldnt work.  But the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
this and covered  him for longer - up to 12 months  if he was unable to work  or lost his 
job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful  benefit  to Mr K in his 
circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. And 
if he no longer wanted  the policy he couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Barclays gave  Mr K information in a way which  was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr K has told us about  his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy  if hed been given all 
the proper information on the policy.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K or refund
any interest and charges  applied to his credit  card that may have been incurred because of
those premiums.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because  in 2017, following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Barclays said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it refunded the extra  Mr K paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI premium.  It 
also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr K for any time he was out of 
pocket. 
Mr K says there have  been other court  cases in relation to non-disclosure  of commission  
where consumers have received everything back.  So he thinks Barclays should refund all of 
the commission and profit share  it received.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN57463073In this case Barclays has paid Mr K compensation in relation to the level of commission it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr K wants Barclays  to do 
something different.  
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr K and his complaint  to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr K. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ks complaint or circumstances that suggest  the redress  paid 
by Barclays isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Barclayss  offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5746307