K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc closed  his accounts without notice. Further  he 
complains its staff treated  him in an inappropriate manner in a branch and that he has been 
the victim of discrimination by it.
background
Mr H had accounts with Barclays.  It closed them in November 2018.  Mr H complains he was 
treated in an inappropriate manner when  he went into a branch. Mr H thinks the bank  has 
discriminated against him. It appears  this relates to the overall level of customer service he 
has received from the bank rather than the incident  in the branch.
Barclays says it closed  Mr Hs accounts  in line with the relevant account terms and 
conditions. It didnt  agree it had done  anything wrong in relation to this. However, Barclays  
records show that over several years  it had made payments to Mr H on various occasions in 
relation to other matters. Usually Mr H was complaining about not getting calls back  or 
asking for refunds of his call charges. In particular, its records  also show that on one 
occasion he complained about  a staff member  in a branch and it paid him £50 and sent 
feedback to the branch.  Overall during the relevant time period, it has paid him £250. When  
Mr H made  his most recent complaint, Barclays declined  to make any further payments
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding Mr Hs complaint. In short, she didnt agree 
she had any proper basis to ask Barclays to take any further action.
Barclays accepted  her recommendation. Mr H didnt he indicated  he thought he should fairly 
get more compensation  but didnt  tell us why that was. Although he asked how much  hed 
been paid so far by Barclays and we told him.
We could go no further with Mr Hs complaint  at this stage, so I was asked to take a fresh 
look at it and reach a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
closing the accounts
Mr H objects to the closing of the accounts because he tells us he didnt get the correct  
notice. However, Barclays records show it sent him a correctly  addressed  letter telling him 
what it intended to do. I have  no reason to doubt  its records, in the circumstances. On 
balance, I think it is likely  that the letter was sent. Given that is so, while  I cant  explain why 
Mr H didnt receive it, I cant  fairly  hold Barclays responsible for this.
Id say it was fair and reasonable that Barclays had to give Mr H the notice  that it agreed to 
give him in the terms and conditions for the accounts. Mr H agreed to these when he opened 
and used the accounts. From what Ive seen he did get the notice period he was entitled to. 
Ref: DRN52332612Mr H hasnt told us that finding  a new account  caused him hardship or any particular 
difficulty.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
the incident in the branch
Mr H has not given  us much detail about  the incident in the branch. I can see from Barclays  
records he did make  a complaint about  an employee  in one of Barclays bank branches.  It 
seems likely this is the event he complains about.
I can well understand  if he found  this situation unpleasant. Barclays seems to have accepted 
on this occasion  he did not receive  the level of customer service he was entitled to expect.  
However, it seems at the time Mr H was offered £50 for this and he freely  accepted  it. 
From the limited information I have available to me, this was a one-off incident. Further,  it 
seems that Mr H continued using Barclays services  after that and I cant see that he felt so 
strongly about it that he avoided using the branch  again. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Ive any proper basis to say Barclays  should increase 
the payment it has already made.
discrimination
Mr H says Barclays discriminated against him. He hasnt explained what form this 
discrimination took and when it happened. I would have expected Mr H to provide  this 
information.
Where a business discriminates against a consumer this may be unlawful.  That said, I think 
it might  be helpful for me to explain that it is not our services role to say whether a business 
has acted unlawfully or not  thats  a matter  for the Courts.  Our role is to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, I have to take a 
number of things  into account including relevant law and what I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time. The Equality  Act 2010 is relevant law here. So although its for 
the Courts to say whether or not Barclays has breached  the Equality Act 2010,  Im required  
to take into account  relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
That said,  because Mr H hasnt highlighted how and when he thinks he was discriminated 
against I have  looked at his overall interactions with the bank as far as I am able. There  is 
detailed information  about his calls with Barclays which often occurred when he thought it 
had done something wrong in terms of customer service. 
Barclays records which I have no reason to doubt,  paint  a picture of his interactions  with it. 
They show  Mr H was unhappy about having  to make calls, about  not receiving calls when he 
thought these had been promised, as I have already mentioned.  
Further the notes  show he complained  about not receiving payments quickly  enough or 
wanting additional payments once he had been  offered an earlier payment. 
I see he had a general dissatisfaction with Barclays. But overall I cannot see examples of 
where I can say fairly and reasonably say that Barclays behaviour was unfair or 
Ref: DRN52332613discriminatory given  the obligations it had towards him. It follows  I have no fair and 
reasonable basis to say it must offer an increased  payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5233261