K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mr C are unhappy  with Covea Insurance plc. It provides them let property 
insurance but refused a claim they made  for lost rent following water ingress through the roof 
during a period of repair work and storms. 
background
Mr H and Mr C let a flat, the living and kitchen space  for which is situated in what might 
normally be seen as the loft space. The living and kitchen area are open plan and the living  
space comprises some sleeping facilities too. There is also a bedroom on the floor below 
accessed by a staircase from the living area.
Mr H called Covea on 9 August 2018  to report water ingress following storms on 
7 August 2018.  The roof was being  repaired at the time and had been made watertight 
before the contractors  left the previous day but, during storms in the night, water  had got in. 
The ceiling in the living space was bulging. Mr H also later reported  the lights upstairs  were  
off for around 24 hours, and also that the staircase  carpet was sodden and slippery. Covea 
agreed to cover the water damage but when Mr H asked it for one months lost rent (which 
he said hed refunded to the tenant to allow  them to leave), Covea refused. In essence 
Covea didnt think the property had been uninhabitable. 
Mr H challenged Covea. He said it hadnt  told him, when making the claim or in the policy  
documents, what it defined as uninhabitable.  Covea apologised for not having told Mr H this 
and explained  the meaning.  Mr H said as the property had been without lighting and given 
the bulging ceiling, which was in imminent danger of collapse  causing a safety risk, the top 
floor was out of bounds. When Covea wouldnt change its mind  on the lost rent claim Mr H 
and Mr C complained  to this service.
Our investigator considered photos  and video evidence of the flat. She didnt think  the 
condition, even taking  into account the short period  of compromised electricity, meant the flat 
had been uninhabitable.  She felt Coveas decision not to accept the loss of rent claim had 
been fair and reasonable.
Mr H and Mr C were unhappy.  Mr H said that he didnt  think our investigator  had properly 
taken account  of his argument that the bulging ceiling had created a safety risk. He added  
that the slippery carpet meant the lower  bedroom couldnt be accessed or used either. The 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any 
disappointment this causes Mr H and Mr C, I find I agree with our investigators opinion. As 
such, Im not minded to uphold this complaint. 
The term uninhabitable  is common to most property and contents insurance policies Im 
aware of. But its meaning is rarely defined in the policy documents. Whether its defined  or 
not though, the facts of a situation should  speak for themselves.  
Commonly uninhabitable means  a lack of basic facilities such as those  to allow  one to 
cook, wash, heat the home and have hot water. A lack of power  might  equate  to a property 
Ref: DRN58958732being uninhabitable  but usually thats  because that has a knock-on effect on heating and 
hot water. A risk to safety of the occupants might also cause an insurer  to reasonably 
conclude the property is uninhabitable.  However,  I think its fair to say that would  have to be 
a clear and imminent  risk that couldnt otherwise be averted. 
In this case the lighting (in one part of the property),  not the whole electrical system, was off 
for around  twenty-four hours. That is inconvenient for anyone living in the property, but it 
doesnt make it uninhabitable.  Plus the time of year meant the days were long and lamps  
and other  sources  of light could have been used to mitigate the lack of overhead  lighting.
Mr H said the ceiling  was in danger of collapse.  He says his contractors  told him this. 
I havent seen  an expert  opinion  in this respect. Whilst the images and footage  taken at the 
time and after the loss show  the ceiling was clearly  holding water, they dont evidence  it was 
about to collapse. And Im mindful that Mr H later told Covea the risk of collapse had, at 
some stage, been averted by draining the water  from the ceiling. That is a reasonable action 
to take and something that could have  been done  straightaway.  Im not persuaded the 
alternative  to refund the tenant one months  rent and let them leave (as Mr H had told 
Covea had happened) was reasonable.
Similarly a wet stair carpet wouldnt make a home uninhabitable. The reasonable response  
from a landlord would be to take up the carpet.
Covea did apologise  to Mr H for not having  shared what it saw as the definition  of 
uninhabitable with him earlier in the claim. Its admittance in this respect though  doesnt  
mean it should reasonably have to pay the claim.  Whether the definition was shared  or not 
the facts about,  and evidence of, the damage Mr H provided showed the property wasnt  
uninhabitable. Mr H and Mr C having been  better informed about the definition of the term 
wouldnt have changed that.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5895873