K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that his motor insurer, Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited 
(Advantage), sent emails  containing his personal details to the wrong email address three 
times. He says though the emails  bounced  back, this shows that his details arent secure.  
All references to Advantage include its agents. 
background
Mr F was involved in an accident in October 2018  and notified Advantage. Advantage said it 
would close the claim if it didnt hear from the other side.  
Mr F contacted Advantage in May 2019 for an update and was told the claim had been 
closed and that an email had been  sent to him. When he told Advantage he hadnt received 
this it said it would email  him again.  As he didnt  receive the second email he provided his 
email address again. It turned  out that the emails had been sent to an incorrect address. 
After another  failed  attempt and after spelling his email address again, Mr F received the 
email. 
Mr F wasnt happy because he said his personal  details couldve been shared  with a third 
party and didnt  feel Advantage had done enough to keep them secure.  Advantage said it 
didnt share  his details- so no data protection laws had been breached-  because the emails 
all bounced  back.  But it gave Mr F £50 because it said it shouldve  ensured the emails were 
sent to the correct address in the first place.
Mr F didnt  agree and complained to us. He said the fact that his details werent  sent to 
others was just luck and didnt feel that £50 was enough compensation for three errors. He 
also didnt think Advantage was actively listening to him.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said its not our role to 
determine whether  data protection  laws have  been breached. We also cant  look at what 
couldve happened but what did happen. So he thought Advantages £50 compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
As our investigator explained its not our role to consider  whether data protection laws have 
been breached.  Thats  the role of the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO).  But we can 
look at whether a business treated a customer fairly and reasonably  in the circumstances. 
Advantage has provided us with a report that shows that three emails it tried to send to Mr F 
bounced back. On balance, I think this is what happened. Mr F doesnt dispute this but he 
thinks Advantage has to be more  careful when handling personal data. 
Ref: DRN57237352Advantage accepts  that it shouldve done  more to ensure that Mr Fs email  address was 
correct in the first place.  And it says its handler  shouldnt have assumed that he/she had the 
correct address without  checking again. It offered Mr F £50 compensation for this. In the 
particular circumstances  of this complaint I think this is fair and reasonable and in line with 
an award I wouldve  made. As our investigator  said we cant  look at what may have 
happened but what did happen. From  what Ive seen, Advantage managed to get an email 
to Mr F without  delay- after he pointed out that he hadnt received the original email.  
For the reasons  I gave  above I am not going to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr F will 
be disappointed  with my decision but I have  to decide whether Advantage, as his insurer, 
treated him fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. And I think it did. If Mr F feels  that his 
personal data isnt secure this may be something  he can raise with the ICO. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5723735