K822xComplaint
Mr R complains that The On-Line Partnership Limited T/As IN Partnership (INP) delayed his 
mortgage application causing  him distress and inconvenience.
Background 
In July 2018 Mr R applied through INP via a broker to re-mortgage  his home from a bank Ill 
call N, as his current interest only mortgage of around  £60,000 was due to expire at the end 
of October  2018. Due to Mr Rs age he understood he would be restricted on which lenders 
would be prepared to offer him a mortgage  - also the terms theyd offer.  After considering 
this, the broker agreed they would submit an application to a bank Ill call H. The new 
application was for a repayment mortgage  for £60,000 with a term of 17 years and no fees.   
However, the application wasnt submitted by the broker  until October 2018  just before the 
existing mortgage  was due to expire.  The initial application was declined - however it was 
then resubmitted  by the broker, but without the required supporting documentation. H 
chased the broker for the outstanding information but when  this wasnt received within 30 
days, the application was cancelled in mid-December 2018.  
Mr R was then told the broker  he had been  dealing  with would be retiring and his application 
would be passed  to a new broker. In late December  2018, H contacted the new broker  and 
in early January  2019 they agree to reinstate  the mortgage application. On 13 January 2019, 
H contacted the broker  again for some  outstanding  information but didnt receive  a response.  
Then on 17 January  2019, H withdrew Mr Rs application as the outstanding information  
hadnt been received 
A couple of days later,  Mr R raised a complaint with INP. He explained  he was very worried 
that his current interest only mortgage had expired at the end of October 2018, and he still 
didnt have a new mortgage to take its place. He told INP this was causing him considerable 
stress as he didnt know how he was going to repay the outstanding capital amount. 
In February 2019,  the broker submitted a new decision  in principle to H. However, this was 
declined as they had changed their lending criteria in December 2018,  reducing the age limit 
for customers to a maximum of 80 years. So, it was no longer possible for Mr R to have  a 
mortgage with this lender at the end of the term. 
Mr R complained to H and they explained they had contacted the new broker  to proceed  with 
his application  but the information they required hadnt been received. So, Mr R raised a 
further complaint  with INP. He also told INP that N had extended  his existing mortgage term 
and offered him a new repayment  mortgage  over a 10-year term, but he couldnt  afford  the 
repayments. He felt INP had caused  him significant stress so they should pay him £10,000 
for the trouble and upset  caused. 
INP upheld  Mr Rs complaint in part. They  said there was no guarantee H wouldve accepted 
Mr Rs application if the requested information had been provided  but it was possible. They 
also agreed that both brokers could have  done more to submit the requested  information  
more quickly. However,  they also said it appeared Mr R had also caused  delays in 
responding to requests for information. 
So, they offered  Mr R £250 for the trouble and upset caused, and £90 to take into account 
the extra interest hed be paying  if hed taken out the 10 year fixed  rate N had offered him 
Ref: DRN56185402(plus a further £45 to cover the three months expected it would take to arrange a new 
mortgage). They also said that if Mr R hadnt  already  found  a suitable replacement  
mortgage, they would provide him with their brokers service  for free - or he could have £200 
towards the costs  of an alternative broker. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought INP shouldve  told Mr R 
his application  may not be completed by the required deadline so he could look for 
alternative options. He felt Mr Rs application  had been delayed by INP, and that theyd 
caused Mr R significant stress. However, he felt that as Mr R had been able to extend his 
mortgage for a further year, he hadnt incurred a financial loss through  a change  in interest 
rate. So, he felt the interest refund should  be included  in the overall trouble and upset 
payment. He recommended that INP increase their offer to a total of £700 if Mr R didnt want 
to use their advice on sourcing a new mortgage, or £500 if he did  both of.
Mr R didnt accept. He felt INP had caused  him significant stress so they should pay him 
£5,000 to help with his financial  situation and for the trouble and upset caused 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October  2019.  I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, so Ive decided to uphold  it 
for the same reasons  as the investigator.   
Ive seen that Mr R initially spoke to INP about re-mortgaging  his interest-only mortgage with 
N, to a repayment mortgage  with H in June 2018. And based on the regular email  
correspondence between  INP and Mr R, Im persuaded the Mr R was led to believe there 
wouldnt be any problems with this taking place before his current  mortgage  expired. 
Although I havent  seen  any evidence Mr R was told his mortgage was guaranteed,  I think  
Mr R was led to believe there was a significant  chance of success. So, I think INP shouldve  
been clearer with Mr R that this was by no means guaranteed and not got his hopes up that 
this was the case. 
H has provided a timeline of events which shows that INP didnt submit Mr Rs application to 
them until the day before  his current mortgage  was due to expire. H also explained it tried 
several times to obtain the required information  from both of Mr Rs brokers,  but this wasnt 
received within  the required  deadline. So, they cancelled Mr Rs application.  And by the time 
the information was received, the criteria  had changed, and Mr R was no longer  eligible. 
INP have  said Mr R caused delays during the process by not providing the requested 
documentation  but I havent  seen any evidence of this. However, what I have seen is that 
each time INP contacted Mr R, he responded very soon after. Im also not persuaded this is 
the case as Mr R was clearly worried about how he would repay  his outstanding mortgage 
with N as it was very close to expiring,  and his emails convey a sense of urgency because  of 
the situation hed found himself in. So, I think INP didnt deliver on the service Mr R 
expected. 
Ive seen that on numerous occasions Mr R contacted INP for an update becoming 
increasingly concerned  the closer he came to the end of his mortgage  term. And, although 
INP were aware of the issues Mr R had already experienced,  they didnt ensure the new 
application was submitted  correctly. So, I dont think INP treated Mr R fairly  in their dealings  
with him. 
Ref: DRN56185403trouble and upset
I agree  that Mr R was caused a significant  amount  of distress as a result  of the poor service  
he received from INP. Ive seen this included the following:
Concern that he wouldnt  now be able to get a mortgage for the term he needed due 
to his age;
Worrying that himself,  his daughter and grand-daughter would  be homeless;
The time taken to apply for the initial mortgage  and subsequent  applications;
The poor service he received from INP;
The fact that he still doesnt have a mortgage and a further year has passed; 
Emailing INP in the early hours of the morning  because  he was so stressed about his 
financial situation;
The negative impact  this has had on his health. 
And Ive noted  Mr Rs current mortgage  extension with N is due to expire  shortly. Our 
investigator recommended that INP should pay Mr R £500 for the trouble and upset caused 
but given the circumstances  of Mr Rs complaint I dont think  thats  enough. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  and the impact  Mr R has told us its had on him both financially and on 
his health, I think  INP should increase the compensation amount to £1,500  for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
cost of advice
The investigator also recommended that in addition to the trouble and upset amount, that 
INP either cover the professional costs themselves of finding  him a new mortgage  or pay a 
further £200 so Mr R could seek assistance  from an alternative source. I recognise that Mr R 
didnt pay a fee to INP for the advice of either  of the brokers. But I think  given  the lack of 
trust Mr R now feels towards INP because of the service  he received from both brokers, I 
understand that he may prefer to look elsewhere for future advice. I also note that INP 
offered Mr R £200 towards  the cost of alternative  advice, however Ive seen that the average 
cost for this type of advice is £500. So, I dont think the £200 offered by INP is enough  and 
Ill be asking them to increase it to £500.
I understand that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision as he wanted compensation of 
£5,000. He also felt he shouldve been awarded  the interest payment offered by the 
business to cover the increased payments for three  months. But Mr R was able to continue  
his existing mortgage for a further year, so it wouldnt  be fair to ask INP to compensate  Mr R 
when he wasnt disadvantaged  during this period. Furthermore, there was no guarantee that 
Mr Rs application to H wouldve been successful, and H said it couldnt  confirm this either 
way. So, it wouldnt be fair to hold INP responsible for Mr R not getting this mortgage, or for 
the increased payments he feels hell now incur. 
I invited Mr R and INP to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  Both parties responded to my provisional decision  
to say they accepted it.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN56185404Having done so, and as both parties  have responded to say they accept my provisional  
decision, I see no reason  to reach  a different conclusion. 
So, this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct The On-Line  Partnership Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr R £1500  compensation;
Cover the costs incurred for them to source a new mortgage for Mr R, or pay him a 
further £500 if he wishes to use an alternative  source instead.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5618540