K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs W are complaining about Master Adviser CFP Limited because they say their 
adviser incorrectly recorded the base cost of their shares, which  meant they incurred an 
unexpected capital gains tax (CGT)  liability.  Theyve also raised concerns about  the 
adequacy of Master Advisers supervision  of the adviser.
Background
In 2012, Mr W was paid an earn-out of shares by his employer. The earn-out was predicated  
on his employers reported profits and the shares were held in escrow. 
The amount  paid was, ultimately,  reduced, when the performance of Mr Ws employer  was 
corrected in 2014. This required all those involved in the earn-out to repay  for the overstated 
share payment via the sale of shares  from the escrow  account. A CGT liability  was incurred 
on the sale of the shares. Mr and Mrs W say they passed on all of this information to their 
financial adviser, Mr G, who prepared their tax returns. At this time, Mr G was a self-
employed agent of Master  Adviser.
Mr and Mrs W say Mr G correctly calculated the base cost of the shares,  taking into account 
allowable costs  for their disposal  and, using this figure, correctly  calculated their CGT 
liability. After this, and following  the release of the remaining shares from escrow, they were 
issued to Mr W, who transferred some of them to Mrs W, and placed them in a general  
investment account  with a company that provides stockbroking services.
Mr and Mrs W sold some of their shares during the 2015/16 tax year. Then  in March 2016, 
they discussed the possibility of selling more with Mr G. They say their instruction was to sell 
the shares only if it wouldnt lead to a CGT liability. Mr G then arranged  to sell shares worth 
£33,195 for Mr W and £62,927 for Mrs W. The sales were  completed on 24 March 2016.  
Mr and Mrs W believe Mr G used the wrong base cost to calculate  the capital gains from 
these sales. Mr and Mrs W say Mr G completed  their tax returns and that his error led to a 
CGT liability  they wouldnt  have otherwise incurred. Because  he was an agent of Master  
Adviser at the time, Mr and Mrs W think its responsible for their loss.
Master Adviser didnt  accept Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, giving  the following reasons:
Preparation or completion of tax returns it isnt a service Master Adviser offers  and its 
not something for which  it can be held responsible.  This would normally  fall under the 
remit of an accountant.
The complaint doesnt relate to an act or omission in carrying  out an activity  regulated  
by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld and made  the following key points:
The evidence shows  Mr G was involved in selling  the shares and that any act or 
omission in respect of associated tax advice was directly linked  to this. 
Arranging the sale of shares was a regulated  activity Master Adviser  authorised  Mr G to 
carry out, meaning its also responsible for any linked activity involving tax advice.
Ref: DRN59346852Mr G was told to sell shares only if there  would  be no CGT liability,  so he arranged  the 
sale when he shouldnt  have.
Master Adviser didnt  accept the investigators  assessment and made  the following key points:
Theres no documentary evidence to show Mr G provided Mr and Mrs W with advice on 
the sale of their shares.
It provided copies of additional email correspondence with Mr G in early 2016 that it 
says show Mr W was aware  there  would be a CGT liability if more shares were sold 
before the end of the tax year.
Mr W gave a clear  instruction to sell and this wasnt  subject  to any tax calculation. The 
reference to CGT  is instead a summary of his understanding  of a recent telephone 
conversation with Mr G.
Mr G wasnt privy to information  regarding the employer share agreement  and relied on 
the information he was given by Mr W. This included a letter from Mr Ws former 
employer dated  6 March 2015  that detailed the final position regarding the share 
agreement. Mr Ws own accountant  has said this letter  was ambiguous. Its also clear 
from Mr Ws email of 24 March 2016  that he understood  the base cost of the shares to 
be in excess of £2.43 (and most  likely believed it to be £2.67,  the figure shown in the 
employers letter  of 6 March 2015).
Mr and Mrs W say they were  led to believe no CGT would be due, but an email  from Mr 
G on 4 April 2016 said he would realise  the balance after the end of the tax year to 
avoid further CGT. His reference to further CGT  indicates  Mr and Mrs W were  aware  
of a liability  and they dont  seem  to have questioned this at the time.
In March 2016, Mr and Mrs W were in the process of purchasing  a new property and 
required the funds  to complete that. Mr Ws email to Mr G on 27 February 2016 said "we 
are homeless as of March 29". Mr G had previously made  them aware  that any further  
share sales  in the tax year would create a CGT liability,  but as the price  of shares had 
dropped to a price  they believed to be below the strike price, and in the hope of getting  
into the new property  earlier,  Mr and Mrs W made the decision to sell further shares  and 
instructed Mr G to carry that out.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought we can consider this 
complaint and why it should be upheld. I also explained why I couldnt consider  a complaint 
about Master  Advisers  supervision of its adviser.  An extract is attached  and forms part of 
this decision. Master Adviser didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following 
key points:
Mr and Mrs W sold the shares when they did because the needed the money. They  were  
buying a house  they were anxious they might not be able to afford and the share price 
was continually  falling.  Mr Ws email of 27 February 2016 confirmed he was finding the 
whole situation  stressful  and that the family  would be homeless as of 29 March.  Their 
mindset is illustrated  by Mrs Ws email to Mr G on 8 February  2016,  in which  she said:
 
Sorry to bother you but have  just been  going  through the mortgage e mails and I 
am really worried. 
Ref: DRN59346853Three weeks ago [XXXX] told [Mr W} that the monthly repayment costs  would  be 
about £1100-1200 for the mortgage we needed and now today he says they are 
at £2200! 
Weve made  the offer but I am now really  worried that we cant on £2200/month 
afford to proceed. Once [Mr W] retires £2200  is out of the question. 
Can you clarify what has happened and whether we can afford to move  and live 
or whether we should scrap  that house and go smaller still.
This and their other  email correspondence with Mr G show  Mr and Mrs W needed to sell 
the shares to complete their property purchase. The only issue was the timing  of when 
to do so.
The share  price was volatile  and had fallen considerably in the period before the sale,  
meaning Mr and Mrs Ws holdings were worth  considerably less than they had been 
previously. They  knew this and, in his email of 24 March 2016, Mr W acknowledged  that 
he wasnt expecting  things to improve. They  couldnt  afford to risk further losses by 
delaying the sale,  which  could have exceeded  any CGT  liability payable because the 
shares were sold before the end of the tax year.
On 17 January  2016, Mr W emailed  Mr G confirming he knew  there was a CGT  issue: 
I remember you saying it would be better to wait until after April to sell shares 
etc, so were prepared to make that contingent  on any purchase.  
Mr Ws email of 24 March 2016  ended Please treat this as an instruction to sell, and 
well catch  up later . This was a clear and simple instruction  with no qualifications about 
share price or capital  gains. Not to have acted upon it would have been a breach of the 
COBS rules.
Both Mr W and Mr G believed  the base price  of the share to be £2.67 as this was stated 
in writing by his former employer on at least four occasions. It was reasonable for Mr G 
to rely on this figure. Mr and Mrs Ws new accountant  chose not to use that figure, nor to 
clarify the position  with HMRC despite saying the previous  correspondence  was 
ambiguous. Its not known if HMRC would have accepted  a price of £2.67 given the 
previous written correspondence.
It would have  been negligent to advise Mr and Mrs W, who had an immediate need for 
funds to buy a family home, to continue to hold on to their shares in the hope the price 
would not fall further to allow the sale in the next tax year. The property purchase was a 
fixed and certain financial liability, the share value was floating  and volatile  as Mr W knew.
The share  price in March  2016 was £2.43.  Six months later,  this had fallen to £1.84. Its 
now £1.34.
Mr Gs error was not informing Mr W of a potential  CGT  liability,  not creating it.
Ref: DRN59346854In terms of how compensation  should be calculated, the argument is that Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have  had a CGT liability if the sale had been delayed to 6 April 2016,  thus 
denying them  the opportunity to have gains equivalent  to twice the annual tax-free 
allowance free of tax. The loss in this scenario is £3,108  each (28% of the annual 
allowance of £11,100).
The money lost because of the CGT liability would/should otherwise have been used for 
the house purchase, thereby saving part of the mortgage.  The mortgage interest rate 
was 2.69%.
Further,  the calculation Ive set out includes interest for the period while the complaint 
was being considered  by our service. Its questions whether this is fair.  
Master Adviser concluded by saying it disagreed with my provisional decision. But in light of 
the confusion  created  around the share  sale, which on reflection  could  have been  
communicated differently, and for a speedy resolution, it offered to make a goodwill payment 
to Mr and Mrs W of £4,000.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept this offer and said they preferred to leave it for me to decide 
what represents fair compensation.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Master Advisers response to my provisional  decision, my conclusions havent changed. 
Much of Master Advisers defence of the complaint is based  on its view Mr Ws email of 24 
March 2016 was a clear  and unambiguous  instruction, but I dont  share that interpretation. If 
the email is read in its entirety, I think the instruction was clearly given on the understanding 
there would be no resultant CGT liability. Previous correspondence shows  the issue  of CGT 
was an important one for Mr and Mrs W and Mr G should have been  aware  of that. For the 
reasons Ive previously  explained, I also think it was reasonable for Mr W to have believed  
Mr G was going to check  the CGT  situation for them.
Im aware from previous correspondence that Mr W should have known further sales  in the 
2015/16 tax year could  be subject to CGT. But given the changes  in the share  price  in the 
early part of 2016, I think it was also reasonable for him to believe the situation  might have 
changed and to want to clarify that.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr Ws instruction was clear-cut in the way 
thats been suggested and I think Mr G should have clarified the tax situation before acting 
on it. Further, I think it would be very difficult to criticise his actions if hed done that. Mr G 
could have either calculated whether a CGT  liability would  arise and told Mr W so he could 
confirm whether he wanted to proceed. Or if he wasnt willing  or able to do this, he could 
have told Mr W that so he could either  seek advice elsewhere or make his decision without 
that information. 
Ref: DRN59346855I still believe the evidence  shows Mr G let Mr and Mrs W down either by failing to tell them 
he wasnt going to calculate whether the sale of further shares would create a CGT liability. 
Or he made a calculation  and got the figures wrong.  Ive never suggested  Mr G created a tax 
liability, but it appears Master Adviser now accepts he made an error in not informing Mr W 
of a potential CGT liability and I assume thats  the reason  it made an offer to settle.  If this 
error hadnt been made, I think Mr and Mrs W would have  acted differently and thats the 
reason Im requiring Master Adviser to pay compensation.
Master Adviser seems  to be arguing  Mr and Mrs W had no choice but to sell the shares 
when they did, but I dont  think  thats supported by the evidence. While they do appear to 
have needed the money,  they would have only needed to wait a few days  to complete the 
sale in the following tax year. If this would have  resulted in a short  delay to the completion of 
their property purchase, Mrs Ws email of 7 February 2016 confirms they had the option to 
stay with friends and family. I dont think they would literally have been homeless and I 
think Mr Ws use of the word was really just a figure  of speech.
With regard to the timing  of the share sale, its also clear Mr W wasnt optimistic  about the 
prospects for the share price. Im not suggesting  Mr G should have advised Mr and Mrs W to 
delay the sale of their shares. But if hed told them selling before the end of the tax year was 
going to generate a CGT  liability or that he wasnt willing  or able to make that calculation, 
they would  then have had a choice to make about  whether to complete the sale immediately 
and accept any resultant  tax or wait a few days to save tax while  accepting  the risk the share 
price could fall further. 
Ultimately, Mr Gs actions  meant Mr and Mrs W were denied the opportunity  to make this 
choice. But on balance,  if theyd been  aware of all the facts,  I think its more  likely they would  
have waited as it would  have required a significant  fall in a very short  space of time for any 
loss due to a falling share  price to have  exceeded the tax they would have saved.  While  Mr 
Ws email of 24 March  2016 shows he wasnt confident of a rebound  in the share  price,  I 
dont think it shows he was worried about  extreme falls in the very short  term. 
Master Adviser has pointed to the volatility of the share and how much it fell in price in the 
six months after the sale was completed. But thats  not really  relevant here given Im saying 
Mr and Mrs W would have sold the shares  only a few days  later at the beginning of the next 
tax year.  I think its also relevant to note at this point that the method of calculating 
compensation Ive proposed does effectively  take account of any change in the share price 
during the period Im saying the sale would have  been delayed.
Finally, some of Master Advisers recent comments seem to be questioning  the actions of Mr 
and Mrs Ws accountant. But its not provided  any evidence  to show  the accountant has 
acted incorrectly or that HMRC would have treated Mr and Mrs Ws situation differently if 
hed given it alternate information. In any event,  Im not able to investigate a complaint about 
the accountants actions and that something Master Adviser would need to take up 
separately outside of our service.
Ref: DRN59346856Putting things  right
My aim is (as far as possible) to put Mr and Mrs W back in the position theyd now be in but 
for Mr Gs errors. For the reasons Ive explained previously, I think  its most likely Mr and Mrs 
W would have delayed  the sale until the start of the new tax year to raise  the money they 
needed and simply  moved in with family  or friends (as Mrs W confirmed was an option  in her 
email to Mr G) for the very short  interim period if that was necessary.
This is the position  I wanted to recreate,  but on re-reading my provisional decision I think I 
could have been clearer about how compensation should be calculated,  particularly  in point 
C, and Im sorry for any confusion this may have  caused. I can see its possible  Mr and Mrs 
W would still have had to pay some CGT even  if they had sold their shares  at the start of the 
2016/17 tax year, but the evidence theyve provided  does  indicate the amount would have  
been considerably less. Its only the difference between the amount they did pay and the 
amount they would have had to pay if the sale had been delayed until 6 April 2016 that Im 
requiring Master Adviser to repay.
To return them to the correct financial  position, Master Adviser  should pay Mr and Mrs W 
compensation of D - E; where:
A = the amount they would have received if the same shares had instead been  sold on 
6 April 2016  (the first day of the following  tax year), plus simple interest at 8% per year 
from 6 April 2016 to the date compensation  is paid;
B = any additional dividends they would have  received on the shares  sold in March  
2016 if they had still held them  on 5 April 2016, plus simple interest at 8% per year from 
the date the dividends  would have been  paid to the date compensation is paid;
C = the amount of unnecessary CGT paid following the sale of the shares  plus simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date the tax was paid in 2017  to the date compensation 
is paid. Unnecessary  CGT in this situation  is the difference  between  the amount of CGT  
they paid as a result  of the share sale in March 2016  minus the amount of any CGT that 
would have  been payable if the sale of the same  shares had instead been completed on 
6 April 2016;
D = A + B + C; and
E = the amount they actually received following the sale of the shares on 24 March 
2016, plus simple  interest at 8% per year from 24 March 2016 to the date compensation 
is paid.
Simple interest at 8% per year is factored into the above calculation  to compensate Mr and 
Mrs W for not having the use of their money from the date it would have  otherwise  been 
available to them. Its not intended to be an interest rate in the way a bank account pays  
interest. Rather its a rate that I consider a fair yardstick to compensate for a wide range of 
possible losses and lost opportunities. These could have included  borrowing additional 
money, lost saving/investment opportunities, or the opportunity to spend the money on 
holidays, home improvements, or any number  of other things with an unquantifiable return; 
or any combination  of these things.
Ref: DRN59346857As Ive said,  the aim of my decision is to return Mr and Mrs W to the position theyd now be 
in but for the errors of Master Advisers representative so its right that interest  calculations  
are brought up to date. Im aware this includes the period when weve been dealing with the 
complaint, but its not appropriate  to penalise Mr and Mrs W for that and Im conscious  
Master Adviser had the opportunity to resolve the complaint before it was referred to us.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs W accept my decision,  Master Adviser CFP Limited  must pay them 
compensation calculated using the method set out above. It should  provide them  with details 
of its calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN59346858Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
In reaching my conclusions, Ive relied  on the following key pieces  of evidence:
The self-employed contract  between Mr G and Master Adviser dated  1 January  2010.
Master Advisers compliance manual.
Letters from Mr Ws former employer dated  6 and 16 March 2015, which  contained various 
information about  his shares.
An email from Mr W to Mr G dated 17 June 2015, entitled Selling [XXXX] shares,  which says:
In line with yesterdays discussion, I would like to confirm the instruction to sell [XXXX]  
shares in [Mrs W]s or my name  so long as the share price  is in excess of £3.00 per share, 
and by so doing, you do not create  a tax liability by any such  sale.
Email  correspondence dated 19 January 2016, in which Mr G made the following comments:
Realising a further tranche of [XXXX]  shares before 05/04/16 would create a CGT  liability 
unnecessarily so if you have the ability to time it will be a saving of 28% for [Mr W], 18% 
[Mrs W]. Sums  I am sure would be better spent on the kitchen! 
I am aware  I still need to make cash available to pay next weeks tax bill but dont  know your 
current cash  balances. Can you therefore update what you will need  excluding the house 
between now and the end of the tax year i.e. tax in January, and anticipated  shortfalls  in 
February March  so that I redeem the necessary? 
Mr W replied as follows:
Agreed, weve  put an offer on the house, and if accepted,  weve said mid-April is our target 
move date.
We have  around £14K available in cash in the bank, but need to pay this term fee of £9K, 
leaves a net £5k. I cant  remember what the tax was for the year, was it around £36K?  If we 
could access another 5K on top (say £41K in total) that should hopefully give us enough  to 
go into the new tax year?
An email from Mrs W to Mr G dated 7 February 2016, which says:
Our offer of £560,000 has been  accepted. [Mr W] has told [the mortgage adviser].
After discussions with our landlord we have to exit this property on 24th March. We had 
hoped for an April date so as to avoid  capital gains - is there  any way that we can move to 
the new house on 24th and still avoid capital  gains issues.
If not we will move out and then stay with mum/friends until an April date and put all goods 
in storage. Can you let me know urgently as the agent will be contacting me early  this week 
for confirmation.
Ref: DRN59346859An email from to Mr G dated 27 February 2016, in which Mr W said:
[XXXX] appears to have  secured the mortgage  so we really need to know the absolute  
certain earliest date that we can have our money (shares) so that we can transfer and 
complete and move.  At the moment were in limbo, because I know we cant  sell until the 
new tax year and then there will potentially  be a settlement  delay? We are homeless as of 
March 29th so its vital we can give a date, notwithstanding the fact that the vendors have 
not yet agreed when  they will go. All v. Stressful, but it would help to have your view.
An email from Mr B (recorded as managing director of Master Adviser) dated 14 March  2016,  
explaining Mr G wont be available for a period of time due to personal circumstances. The letter 
went on to say:
In the interim, for any work items outstanding, his client work is being handled by [XXXX], 
one of our Client Managers,  so please let us know if you are awaiting year end or tax items,  
such as ISA and pension applications. [XXXX]s  contact  details are: [XXXX]. In regard  to tax 
returns, any such work will be handled by our company  accountants and will not be dealt 
with here.
An email from Mr W to Mr G dated 24 March  2016, which says:
Thanks for taking my call, were so sorry about what happened, and we havent been 
wanting to contact  you; however, as discussed, [XXXX]s share price  has dropped 
significantly due to a warning, it is currently trading  around £2.43,  which I believe was well 
under our strike price? I personally cant see a rebound  and would  far rather  we sold them  
all now at the best price  if this is not going to crystallise a capital gain. Then we can use the 
cash as soon  as its with us to perhaps get into the new property earlier than planned?
Please therefore treat this as an instruction to sell, and well catch up later.
AJ Bells annual tax summaries for Mr and Mrs W showing the sale of shares worth £33,195 for 
Mr W and £62,927  for Mrs W on 24 March 2016.
An email from Mr G to Mr W dated 4 April 2016 to confirm the sale of shares.
Evidence from Mr and Mrs W that appears to show they held around £114,000 in a selection  of 
ISA funds  in February  2016 and that no further withdrawals were made before the end of the 
2015/16 tax year.
Bank statements showing Mr W made payments of £4,529 to HMRC  on 20 February  2017 and 
Mrs W made  a payment  of £10,585 to HMRC on 27 February  2017.
A letter from Mr and Mrs Ws accountant dated 17 May 2017 and accompanying tax calculations,  
that appear  to show the sale of additional shares in March 2016 created a CGT liability of 
£3,259.76 for Mr W and £10,585.72 for Mrs W.
Correspondence  from Mr and Mrs Ws accountant  dated February 2018 that appears to show 
Mr W made  no capital gains and Mrs W a small  gain of £391  in the 2017/18 tax year.
If either party hasnt seen  any of this information, they can speak to the investigator about  obtaining a 
copy before  responding to this provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN593468510jurisdiction
The rules I must follow  in deciding  whether we can consider this complaint are set out in the Dispute  
Resolution (DISP) rules,  published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
Under DISP 2.3.1, we can only consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction  if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more  of the listed activities, which includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary  activities carried on by a firm in connection with those activities.
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). Master Adviser correctly observed that tax advice  isnt a regulated 
activity. But the act or omission Mr and Mrs W are complaining about  here took place in the context  of 
the sale of shares. Master  Adviser says theres no evidence Mr G gave advice  on the share sales,  but 
the RAO confirms simply arranging deals  in investments (article 25) and agreeing  to arrange deals in 
investments (article 64) are regulated activities. The investments covered by these provisions  include 
shares (article  76).
Im satisfied the evidence, particularly Mr Gs email  of 4 April 2016, shows he carried out the 
regulated activities  of agreeing to arrange deals  in investments and carrying out those  arrangements. 
I think  this is the regulated activity at the heart of this complaint and that any act or omission relating 
to a failure to calculate the associated CGT liability or warn Mr and Mrs W about it is ancillary  to that. 
DISP 2.3.1 therefore  provides that we can consider the issues of complaint raised  by Mr and Mrs W.
Mr G was an agent of Master Adviser, which means its responsible for his actions. Master Adviser  
says tax advice wasnt a service it offered, but Ive reviewed Mr Gs contract  and the accompanying 
compliance documentation provided carefully. This shows he was appointed as an independent 
financial adviser and Ive seen nothing to suggest he wasnt permitted to arrange the sale of shares 
for clients.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the complaint  is about a regulated activity (to which  any 
unregulated activity involving Mr and Mrs Ws CGT position was ancillary) and that this was an activity 
Mr G was permitted  to carry out and that Master  Adviser accepted responsibility for. That means  the 
complaint falls within our jurisdiction to investigate.
Mr and Mrs W have also expressed  concern  about the adequacy of Master  Advisers  supervision of 
Mr G, but thats not an issue I can address here. While  concerns  about  how a business supervises  its 
agents may be something the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) would want to be aware of in its role 
as industry regulator, the supervision  of an agent isnt a regulated activity  about which  I can consider 
a complaint.
merits
Mr and Mrs W say any intention to sell shares in March 2016 was conditional on there being no CGT 
liability. This certainly appears consistent with their earlier  instruction  from June 2015 and I believe  the 
correspondence outlined  above indicates avoiding further  CGT was an important consideration for them.
Im aware Mr Ws emailed  instruction dated 24 March 2016 followed  a telephone discussion and its 
unfortunate I havent  been  able to hear exactly what was said. But I think the text of the email is clear  
that he only wanted the shares sold if this didnt generate a capital gain. CGT is mentioned  many 
times in the correspondence  Ive been given  and it seems this was something Mr and Mrs W 
discussed with Mr G regularly. Further, his comments in the email of 19 January 2016 appear to show 
Mr G had calculated the extent of their liability on previous occasions. The comments in Mr Bs email  
of 14 March  2016  also support Mr and Mrs Ws account that he did their tax returns. 
Ref: DRN593468511In the circumstances,  I think Mr and Mrs W were entitled  to think Mr G was going to consider  whether 
selling their shares before the end of the tax year would  generate an additional  CGT liability and to 
rely on his advice in that regard. If he wasnt going  to do that, or wasnt able to for some reason,  I 
think he should have  explained that to Mr and Mrs W given the instruction was conditional  on there 
being no CGT  liability. They would  then have been able to decide whether or not to continue with the 
sale and or to seek advice from someone else before making a final decision on whether  to sell.
Its not entirely clear  which  is the case, but I think  the evidence shows Mr G let Mr and Mrs W down 
either by failing to tell them  he wasnt going  to calculate  whether  the sale of further shares  would 
create a CGT  liability. Or he did make a calculation and got the figures  wrong. Whichever was the 
case, I think thats sufficient reason for the complaint to be upheld  and Ive therefore considered 
whether his failing led to Mr and Mrs W being disadvantaged.
The timing of the share sale is key because it took place only a few days before  the end of the tax 
year. If Mr and Mrs W had waited until the start of the new tax year to sell, the evidence  theyve 
provided appears to show they wouldnt have had to pay any CGT. I think  its reasonable  to believe 
the prospect of saving a significant sum of money would have been extremely attractive if they were  
in a position  to raise the money they needed elsewhere  or delay  their property purchase until the start 
of the new tax year.  
The correspondence indicates Mr and Mrs W wanted to finalise their property purchase as soon as 
possible and thats perfectly understandable.  But I think the evidence  does show they had other 
options that meant  they wouldnt have needed to sell their shares at all or could have at least delayed 
this to avoid having to pay a significant sum in CGT. First, they appear to have  had enough money in 
ISAs that could have been sold to raise  an equivalent sum to that raised  from their shares. 
Alternatively, Mrs Ws email  of 7 February 2016 indicates they had the option of staying with family or 
friends for a short  period.
On balance, I dont think the sale of the shares was so pressing that it couldnt have been avoided or 
delayed for a few days until the start of the new tax year. If Mr G had either  correctly calculated their 
tax liability (or told them he wasnt going to assess that before completing  the sale), I think its most  
likely Mr and Mrs W wouldnt  have  sold the shares when  they did. 
Master Adviser has referred to the fact Mr G said a further sale of shares in that tax year would 
generate a CGT liability  comment in the emails  of 19 January 2016. But that comment  would have 
been based on the share price at that time. Mr Ws email of 24 March 2016  shows he believed the 
price had dropped  significantly and I think it would have been reasonable  for him to believe the 
position in respect of CGT  could  have  changed.  In those circumstances, its understandable he asked 
the question of Mr G again and asked him to sell more  shares if that was indeed the case.
In providing any tax calculations  for Mr and Mrs W, I understand Mr G was reliant  on the information 
he had. But in taking  on this task, he had a responsibility  to do it correctly,  especially since I believe 
the instruction to sell was conditional on there  being  no CGT  liability. Mr and Mrs W have said Mr G 
had made  previous calculations  using the correct information  for the shares  and, if thats right, that 
means he had the information needed. But crucially, if he didnt feel he had sufficient information, or 
that it was ambiguous as has been suggested, he should have either  made additional  efforts to clarify 
things or told Mr and Mrs W he couldnt  offer the assistance required so they could  approach 
somebody else. 
Ref: DRN593468512Putting Things Right
My aim is (as far as possible) to put Mr and Mrs W back in the position  theyd now be in but for Mr Gs 
errors. As Ive said, I think he failed them either by calculating their CGT liability incorrectly or not 
telling them he wasnt going  to calculate it at all prior to selling their shares in March 2016.
Mr and Mrs W had already  sold a number  of shares earlier in the year and I think the evidence shows 
they were looking to sell the rest as soon as they could  without incurring a CGT liability. They  needed  
money to fund a property purchase and I think the sale of their shares  would  have been a more  
attractive way of achieving this rather than selling ISA investments, that had presumably  been 
accumulated over a number  of years,  and losing  the associated tax benefits. Particularly in view of the 
comments in Mr Ws email  of 24 March  2016, which  show  he felt the price  was falling and was 
unlikely to recover. If Mr G had acted correctly,  I think its most likely  Mr and Mrs W would  have 
delayed the sale until the start of the new tax year (when the evidence from their solicitor appears to 
show they wouldnt have  incurred a CGT liability) to raise  the money they needed and simply moved  
in with family or friends (as Mrs W confirmed was an option in her email to Mr G) for the very short  
interim period.
To return them to the correct  financial  position,  I currently  believe Master Adviser should pay Mr and 
Mrs W compensation of D - E; where:
A = the amount  they would have received if the same  shares had instead been sold on 6 April 
2016 (the first day of the following tax year), plus simple interest at 8% per year from 6 April 2016 
to the date compensation is paid;
B = any additional  dividends they would have received on the shares sold in March 2016  if they 
had still held them  on 5 April 2016, plus simple interest at 8% per year from the date the 
dividends would  have  been paid to the date compensation  is paid;
C = the amount of CGT paid following the sale of the shares, £13,845 according  to their 
accountants letter,  plus simple interest at 8% per year from the date the tax was paid in 2017 to 
the date compensation is paid;
D = A + B + C; and
E = the amount  they actually  received following the sale of the shares  on 24 March  2016,  plus 
simple interest at 8% per year from 24 March 2016 to the date compensation  is paid.
Interest is factored into the above calculation  to compensate Mr and Mrs W for not having  the use of 
their money  from the date it would have otherwise been  available to them.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Master  Adviser CFP 
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation calculated using  the method set out above.
Ref: DRN5934685