K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc has asked to him repay a debt that he 
doesnt believe he owes.
Background
In October  2016, Mr W took out a loan with NatWest of £1,600 which he used to repay the 
overdraft on his current account.
Mr W maintained  the loan repayments of £61.89 a month until September 2017. But he then 
received help from a debt management company and paid reduced payments of £16.07  a 
month until March 2018. 
After this time, Mr W contacted NatWest  to say that hed been  told he no longer owed 
anything towards the loan balance. But NatWest said that wasnt  correct and asked Mr W to 
complete and return a financial statement.
The debt was passed to a debt collection agency, but was then recalled to NatWest.  
However, as NatWest didnt receive a response  from Mr W to agree a way of repaying  the 
outstanding balance, then debt was passed again to another debt collection agency.
Mr W has complained and disputes  that he owes anything to NatWest  he believes it owes 
him a repayment. He thinks  the account  it relates  to is a shell account that wasnt properly 
opened.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. She 
couldnt find any information or evidence  relating  to the shell account Mr W had referred to. 
She said that Mr W had taken out a loan with NatWest for £1,600 which started in October 
2016. Although  a debt management company had made arrangements for Mr W to pay a 
reduced amount  towards this loan, the investigator said that she couldnt see that Mr W had 
kept to this and so an outstanding balance of the debt remained. She thought  NatWest  had 
acted fairly  in contacting Mr W about  this.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings  and his complaint has been passed  to me for 
review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  for the situation Mr W has found  himself  in. I can understand that this matter has 
been worrying and upsetting for him. I also appreciate that Mr W has had a previous related 
complaint that has already been  considered  by our service. My consideration here therefore 
relates solely to the request for the repayment  of this outstanding loan balance  with 
NatWest, now being  dealt with by a debt collection agency.
Ive looked at the information provided about  this loan, including Mr Ws signed  agreement to 
it on 28 September 2016. The loan of £1,600 was paid into Mr Ws NatWest  current  account 
on 4 October 2016, and repaid the majority of the overdrawn balance on the current account 
at that time. 
Ref: DRN57402082Ive also considered the account statement for Mr Ws loan, which  shows  the payments 
made towards it, together  with the remaining balance. Although an arrangement  to pay a 
reduced contribution  was made towards  this balance, and this was paid over a period of five 
months, this didnt mean that the debt was repaid or was no longer owed to NatWest in 
accordance with the original loan agreement.
I can see from Mr Ws account records that there was a period of time - after this loan was 
taken and during  the situation of his previous complaint - that a portion of the overdrawn 
balance on his current account was moved to a repayment account so that he would be able 
to carry on using his current  account normally. Its possible that this could  be the shell  
account that Mr W has referred to. But this was separate to the loan which, as Ive said,  was 
taken before this time.
Taking everything into account,  although  I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed  with my 
decision, I dont  think NatWest has acted unfairly in passing on the remaining balance of his 
loan onto the debt collection agency  for its repayment.
I understand that Mr W has the details of the agency, so I can only suggest that he contacts 
it to look to arrange a mutually acceptable  repayment plan.
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5740208