K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society handled things when he wanted  
to switch his current  account from another bank.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 May 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms part 
of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. Both parties have 
confirmed that they received my provisional  decision. Mr E accepts  what  Ive said, he thinks  
it makes sense. Nationwide  doesnt agree. It refers to submissions made  before I issued my 
provisional findings. It considers Mr E has been paid enough compensation. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E accepts my provisional  conclusions and Nationwide  hasnt provided  any new 
information - or said anything thats persuaded me to change  my mind. So, I see no 
reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional  findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint. I order  Nationwide 
Building Society to pay Mr E an additional £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55541772copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society handled  things when  he wanted to switch 
his current account from another  bank.  
background
Mr E decided to switch  his current account to Nationwide  from another  bank (that Ill call B) in order  to 
take advantage of an incentive whereby Nationwide  would pay Mr E and his daughter £100 each 
when the switch  completed.  
The switching process started  on 6 April 2018. The day before that Mr E realised they might be too 
late to qualify for the incentive payment  so he phoned  Nationwide the next day to see what he should 
do. He says Nationwide told him he could  just cancel  the switch and initiate another  one to get the 
incentive so he told Nationwide to terminate the ongoing switch that day.  
Over the next few months Nationwide tried to switch Mr Es account  from B without success. Then it 
told Mr E the switch couldnt  take place because his account with B had closed as part of the switch  
hed cancelled  - meaning Mr E no longer had an account with B to switch.  
Mr E is unhappy  that Nationwide  didnt  realise this sooner. He says it is Nationwides fault that hes 
been left without  an account to switch for a reward. And it is wrong that Nationwide hasnt paid the 
incentive as he opened a Nationwide  account.  Mr E feels Nationwide made mistakes that caused him 
to lose out financially  and experience upset and inconvenience in that 
he had to spend time moving money around between various  bank accounts to ensure  
routine payments were  made  on time;
some direct debits  failed and he had to contact one creditor  to get a late payment fee written 
off;
he missed  out on higher  interest  that would have been paid if hed been able to switch  the 
account to Nationwide when he wanted to; 
he spends  a lot of time overseas so hes also had to pay for phone calls to try and sort things 
out; and 
he lost out financially  due to time he spent on this matter that he could have spent  on his own 
business. 
Mr E wants Nationwide  to pay £200  - the incentive it offered originally  for switching accounts - along 
with appropriate compensation  for his distress, inconvenience and financial losses. 
Nationwide says switching bank accounts  is an automated process. Mr E decided  to cancel  after the 
process started and its impossible  to stop the process completely at that stage. It thinks  Mr E should 
have contacted  B direct if he didnt want his existing  account to close. And Nationwides not 
responsible for that account closing or the payment issues Mr E had subsequently.  It accepts Mr E 
was given  conflicting and incorrect  information about the failure of subsequent  switch attempts and a 
call wasnt returned.  It paid him £225 for related distress, inconvenience and out of pocket expenses 
such as phone calls and considers that was a fair response  to this complaint.  
Our investigator checked industry guidance on the switching process. Shes satisfied the new bank - 
Nationwide in this case - would normally be responsible for managing the switch process. She thinks 
Nationwide should have let B know that Mr E had cancelled the switch  on 6 April so it wouldnt  close 
Mr Es existing account. If Nationwide had done so, she considers it likely the switch  would have gone  
ahead when Nationwide tried again later and the relevant incentive would have been paid. 
Shes satisfied Mr E has opened a Nationwide  account  and she thinks  it would be fair for Nationwide 
to pay the £200 reward in these circumstances. She accepts Mr E experienced stress and 
inconvenience as a result of Nationwides mistakes after the April switch was cancelled. But, she 
Ref: DRN55541773considers the £225 compensation  Nationwide  has paid already seems fair compensation  for that and 
doesnt recommend Nationwide should have to do anything else.  
Nationwide doesnt  agree. It asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter and says (in summary):
the compensation paid already is enough for any mistakes made;
Mr E cancelled the switch on 6 April but he didnt  ring Nationwide until April 10 - by which  time 
it was too late to stop B from closing his existing account;
Mr E didnt actually switch  an account  to Nationwide  and the activity on the Nationwide 
account he has opened  doesnt meet the reward  criteria so it doesnt qualify for the incentive; 
and 
Mr E doesnt seem  to use his Nationwide account for day to day banking which suggests he 
has another current account  and it will pay the incentive  if he wants to switch that. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Ive spoken to Mr E and hes told me he only agreed to switch accounts so that he and his daughter 
would receive incentive payments of £100 each. I have explained (and Mr E has confirmed he 
understands) that I am unable to make any award here in respect of his daughter - as she is not 
Nationwides customer in respect  of this complaint. 
Nationwide acknowledges it made mistakes after the April switch  was cancelled - it provided poor 
service and gave Mr E conflicting information about why further switch attempts didnt succeed.  Ive 
considered the impact  of this on Mr E. I think the £225 Nationwide has paid already is fair 
compensation for his related  distress, inconvenience and out of pocket  expenses  like phone calls.  I 
understand Mr E accepts that. So, all that remains for me to consider in this decision is whether 
Nationwide made mistakes  around the April switch itself and Mr Es request to cancel that.   
As I understand it, Mr E asked to switch accounts on 29 March 2018 and this process was due to 
complete on 10 April.  Ive seen an email exchange between Mr E and his daughter on 5 April 2018 
that shows she was told the incentive wasnt payable as the switch  had not completed within  the 
relevant timescale. Mr E told his daughter  he thought  that was strange given he had opened an 
account with Nationwide and it had money in it. He said it was probably  best to just cancel and start 
over and hes told me he rang Nationwide the following  day to do just that. Mr E says Nationwide told 
him he could  simply  cancel  the switch - which had already  commenced - and re-start  the process. 
Like our investigator,  I am satisfied that Nationwide (and not B) was responsible for managing this 
switch. Ive seen a leaflet Nationwide provides  to customers with information  about switching 
accounts. This says Nationwide will guide  customers through  the process  - including any 
cancellation. So, Id expect Nationwide to provide appropriate guidance to a customer like Mr E who 
got in touch to say he wanted to cancel a switch. 
I asked Nationwide  about the contact it had from Mr E about the cancellation. It supplied a screenshot  
showing the switch progress. And I can see theres a note on 10 April that says the switch was 
manually terminated  around 4.30 that day at Mr Es request. 
Nationwide says it has no record  of a call from Mr E before the 10th of April. And it was too late to 
prevent B closing Mr Es old account by then as the switch had already gone too far.  I  think thats 
probably right.  I have seen some paperwork  supplied by B that says Mr Es account had become  
unusable at this point - because the request to terminate was made on the final day of the switch. 
I explained this to Mr E but he feels  certain he spoke  to Nationwide on the 6th not the 10th of April.  He 
hasnt been unable to supply any direct evidence  of that call but he says he closed a Nationwide 
savings account  the same day and he has provided  evidence showing when that happened. 
Ref: DRN55541774I appreciate its important to Mr E to understand what went  on here. And I can see that Nationwide 
says Mr E asked to terminate the switch  on 6th of April - in a letter it sent to him on 20 June 2018 - 
which seems  to contradict the information set out in the screenshots referred  to above. I cant be sure 
what happened on the information I have  at the moment. But, in the absence  of further evidence, I am 
minded to find it is more  likely than not Mr E spoke to Nationwide on 6 April about cancelling the 
switch. 
I think  it would have been reasonable for Nationwide  to provide appropriate guidance to Mr E during 
that call - in line with the leaflet I referred to above. But, as far as I can tell, the nature of the 
automated switch process means Mr E would not necessarily have been able to prevent  the closure  
of his old account at this stage - even if Nationwide had told him hed need to contact B to prevent 
that. So, I cant fairly conclude that it is Nationwides fault that Mr Es old account was closed. 
I am however  inclined to find it is likely to have made  a difference to Mr Es experience of this process 
if Nationwide had provided the guidance it promised  - in that he would have realised  his old account  
might well be closed. And Mr E would  then have  had the chance to take steps to avoid much of the 
inconvenience and frustration that followed (when  Nationwide continued to try and switch  an account  
that no longer existed). I am minded to find it is fair that Nationwide should pay Mr E another  £50 
compensation to reflect that - over and above the compensation it has paid him already.
Should Nationwide pay Mr E the switch incentive?
I understand Mr E has an account  open  with Nationwide  at the moment. And I know he feels  
Nationwide should pay the incentive it offered originally.  As Ive explained, I cant  fairly find it is 
Nationwides fault that the account with B wasnt available to switch. And, even if Im wrong about 
that, I am satisfied that the incentive Nationwide offered depended on more  than Mr E simply moving  
his account.  
To qualify for the reward  Mr E needed to meet additional criteria in relation to money paid in and out 
of his new Nationwide  account amongst other things. Nationwide says the account Mr E has open 
now doesnt  do this. And Im not persuaded I can reasonably require Nationwide to pay the incentive it 
offered originally in these  circumstances.   
I realise these  provisional findings are likely  to come as a disappointment to Mr E in particular. I 
understand hes frustrated by this process and feels he did nothing wrong but hes the one whos  lost 
out. Nationwide says it is still willing to honour the original incentive offer if Mr E switches whatever  
current account hes using  now - but its up to Mr E to decide  if he would like to take Nationwide up on 
that. 
I invite both parties to think about what Ive said and let me have any further information or comments 
by 22 May 2019.  After that date Ill review all of the evidence again  and make my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given above, subject  to any further submissions I may receive  from the parties, 
my provisional  decision  is I uphold this complaint. And I intend to order Nationwide to pay Mr E an 
additional £50 compensation in recognition of the impact on Mr E of mistakes it made.  
Ref: DRN5554177