K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) hasnt treated him fairly.  In 
particular, he says he hasnt been  offered any promotional rates or offers on his credit card.
background
Mr O took out a credit card with BOI. His complaint is that BOI hasnt offered him any 
promotional offers for balance transfers  or interest rates, whereas some other card providers 
have given him offers on his other accounts.  He says that there were times offers were 
available, but he wasnt told about them.
BOI has said there were  no promotional rates or offers  available  to Mr O at the time he 
asked for them,  but if any became available in the future he would be told. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt think BOI had done  anything 
wrong or needed  to pay any compensation. But Mr O disagreed and asked for the matter  to 
be considered  again  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr O contacted BOI to ask if there were any promotional  rates  available  to 
him. BOI has provided information  to show that at the time Mr O made contact  there werent. 
Mr O doesnt think  this is fair as promotions  were often available to new customers and 
sometimes to existing  customers. He thinks it would be fairer to look at the balance  that 
needs to be stuck between a consumer  and a large business. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr O has said and, having done  so, I dont think  BOI has 
done anything  wrong.
It is common knowledge that credit card companies will often offer introductory interest rates 
on purchases or transfers to new customers  often these rates will be fixed  for a while 
before rising.  Similarly some  offers  are made  available to existing customers, but I cant  see 
there was any duty, contractual or otherwise, on BOI to make any promotional offers to 
Mr O.
Mr O hasnt provided anything to show why he thinks  he is entitled to any promotional rates, 
for example any sales literature. So I cant see there  was any offer in place that BOI was 
making to some customers that he thinks should also have been  made  to him. And I cant  
see that BOI was treating  him unfairly in comparison to other  customers  in a similar position  
to himself.
If Mr O was in any financial difficulty I would expect  BOI to treat him with forbearance, but he 
hasnt told this service that he has been, or is, in financial  difficulty.  So I dont think  that is 
something I need to consider.
I understand that Mr O thinks this service should take into account the imbalance between  
him and a large financial business. But this service  is set up to resolve individual complaints 
Ref: DRN55753062between consumers and businesses. And I must decide what  I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of the complaint,  taking account of, amongst other things,  the 
law, regulations and good  industry practice.  Its not for me to interfere with matters  of 
commercial discretion. And I dont think the size of the business is critical to arriving  at a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Bank of Ireland  (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5575306