K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service  he has received  from Clydesdale  Financial Services  Limited 
 trading as Barclays  Partner Finance (BPF)  in regard  to a finance  agreement he had with 
it for a mobile phone. 
background
Mr L entered into a finance agreement with BPF to purchase a mobile phone. When  the 
phone developed a fault Mr L contacted  BPF to help him liaise  with the retailer to make  a 
claim under Section  75 of Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The retailer eventually agreed to 
cancel the finance agreement and return any payments Mr L had made. 
Mr L says he wasnt  given  all the information  needed when he took out the finance  such as 
a copy of the credit agreement. He says the agreement was mis-sold on this basis. He also 
says he hadnt  received  post from BPF, and he had concerns  about  how it sent its 
correspondence. 
BPF didnt  agree it had made any mistakes,  but it paid Mr L £125  in total for the trouble and 
upset that had been caused to him. 
Mr L raised a complaint  with this Service and one of our investigators looked into the 
complaint. She didnt  think BPF had done  anything wrong. Mr L disagreed  with this, so the 
case is now with me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Id firstly  like to stress  that Ive carefully  read and thought about everything Mr L has said and 
has sent me in reaching my decision. But for clarity, Im only considering the complaint 
against BPF in this decision and in doing so, I focused on what  I think are the material parts 
of his complaint.  Mr Ls other complaints are being looked at separately. 
Was the financial agreement mis-sold by BPF?
Ive noted Mr Ls comments about  the information  he was given and told about when he 
purchased his phone from the retailer. Hes told us that he couldnt sit down and read the 
finance agreement  and wasnt shown a number  of documents or given all the information 
about the sale at the time. But this matter of whether the agreement  was mis-sold has been 
considered in Mr Ls complaint against  the credit broker. 
But its worth  me saying that even if I were to conclude  that the agreement  was mis-sold, 
then Id say that the fair resolution to this would be for the agreement to be cancelled and 
any record of this removed from Mr Ls credit file. And thats already been done here; I dont 
think it would  help to go into any more detail on this point. 
Is BPF responsible for Mr L not getting his post? 
Ref: DRN58512432Mr L says he has concerns about  receiving post from BPF and the method of postal  service  
it is using. Mr L has explained he has previously been a victim of identity theft,  so I 
understand why this is an issue for him. BPF has explained that it uses a different courier  
service to pass post onto Royal Mail. 
Ive looked at the correspondence BPF has sent to Mr L. All of it has been labelled with      
Mr Ls address so Im satisfied BPF has sent the post to the correct  place. 
I know Mr L is unhappy with how BPF sends  its post, but this isnt something  I can comment  
on as it is down to BPFs  own commercial  judgement to how it decides to send its 
correspondence. It isnt unknown for large commercial businesses  to do similar.  
If Mr L hasnt received some of his post,  he should  speak to Royal  Mail about  this. 
Mr L says BPF should check  his credit file to make  sure he hasnt been a victim of identity 
theft. But this isnt something BPF would be able to do  only Mr L will know what 
information on his credit file is genuine  and what isnt. This isnt information BPF - or any 
other company - would know without Mr L telling them.  There are free services which Mr L 
can use to check his credit reports.  
Mr L wants BPF to pay the fee for a fraud  prevention agencys protective registration 
scheme, but as I dont  agree that BPF has done  anything wrong, I wont be directing it to do 
this. 
Should BPF compensate Mr L for the time its taken for the time hes spent trying to 
resolve this complaint?
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has told me about his circumstances around the time 
all of this happened, and I appreciate that the issues hes experienced would have added  to 
what was already a difficult time for him. 
BPF has already paid a total of £125  to Mr L for the trouble and upset having to deal with 
complaint has caused him. I think considering whats  happened,  this amount is fair to resolve 
the complaint.  So, I dont  direct BPF to award any more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5851243