K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with a car financed  by a hire purchase agreement provided  by 
Black Horse  Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services. He says he had various 
problems with the car and believes it was mis-sold to him.
background
Mr G acquired  a new car in April 2016.  The car cost £32,503.46 and Mr G paid a £9,000 
deposit. The rest of the balance was funded by a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. 
The agreement was over 49 months  with a balloon payment of £12,721 if Mr G wanted to 
keep the car at the end of the term.
In the first two years Mr G had the car he says he had several issues  with it. These included 
the heater  not working, warning lights for brake fluid levels and tyre pressure coming  off and 
on, a facia on the boot door coming away and problems with the handbrake. 
In late April 2018 Mr G says the diesel particulate filter (DPF) amber warning light came on. 
He says within one mile of further driving, the warning  light went  red and the car had to be 
recovered to a garage.
At the beginning  of May 2018  Mr G was told the DPF needed replacing and it wouldnt be 
covered under warranty, as the dealer said the issue was due to his driving  style.  It said this 
was due to the car being driven over short distances. It was later decided  the cost of this 
would be covered and the DPF was replaced.  At this point the car had covered around 
16,000 miles.
Around a month later,  Mr G says the amber DPF warning light came  on again.  Within two 
miles it had again  turned  red. A breakdown company attended  and regenerated the DPF. 
Later in June 2018 Mr G says the DPF warning light came on again, after the car had just 
been driven around 110 miles.  The dealer investigated and regenerated the DPF. The car 
had covered around 17,487 miles at this point.
In September  and October 2018  Mr G says the amber DPF warning light came  on several 
times, including when the car had just been driven  80 miles.
Mr G complained to the dealer and Black  Horse. He said the car wasnt  suitable  for him due 
to the DPF, but the dealer  had recommended it to him. He said he had a relationship with 
the dealer and told it exactly  how he would  use the car before he acquired it.  He said he 
shouldve been  told about any need to use the car on longer journeys before he got it, as he 
wouldnt have taken  the car if he was informed of this. 
Mr G also said he shouldve been told that the car needed diesel exhaust fluid adding  to it as 
part of its maintenance. He was unhappy  with not being given a copy  of the cars handbook. 
And he said he wasnt happy with the other  issues the car had.
Mr G says around this time the dealer agreed the car wasnt  suitable  for the way he used it. 
It offered  to take the car back but said it would  charge to do so  so he didnt go ahead.
In November 2018 Black Horse issued its final response letter.  It said,  in summary, that the 
issues with the DPF were caused by Mr G using the car primarily for short journeys rather 
Ref: DRN53816382than a fault with the system.  And it said topping up diesel exhaust  fluid was an associated 
cost with the engine type,  but as Mr G had paid for a service package he wouldnt be 
charged for this.
Mr G remained  unhappy with this and brought the complaint  to our service. He reiterated his 
original points and said Black Horse didnt  consider  what he said about  the dealer 
recommending this particular car to him. 
In February 2019  Mr G says the amber DPF warning light came on, followed by the red light 
within two miles. He said hed been driving on the motorway  around this time. He also says 
an engine management  light was coming  off and on. And he says the car had a leak.
While we were  looking  into things the agreement ended in May 2020.  Mr G paid the balloon 
payment and so took ownership  of the car. He says he did this as the country was in 
lockdown due to Covid-19  and so he couldnt go the dealer to discuss  his options or 
organise a different car.
Our investigator issued  a view upholding Mr Gs complaint.  She said,  in summary, that she 
didnt think the issues with the DPF were  due to the way Mr G used the car. She noted the 
other issues that Mr G had. And she said the DPF shouldve been  discussed with Mr G 
before he got the car. 
Our investigator said she thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when Mr G got it. She 
thought Mr G should now be allowed to reject the car. She said Black  Horse should collect 
the car, reimburse  the deposit paid, reimburse 15% of the repayments made from March 
2018 and pay £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator later clarified that Black Horse should also reimburse  Mr G the balloon 
payment he made. She said the monthly repayments that wouldve been paid under the 
agreement, if it hadnt  ended, should be taken  from this amount  less 15%.
Black Horse  disagreed with the investigators  opinion. It said the manufacturer  had run a 
drive cycle analysis  on the engine and this suggested it had been used for journeys which  
didnt allow the DPF to regenerate.
Mr G agreed with the investigators view but was unhappy with Black Horses response  to it.
Our investigator wrote to Black Horse and explained  what  it said about  the drive  cycle didnt 
change her opinion.  The case was then passed  for an ombudsmans decision.
While waiting for the case to be assigned, Mr G says the tyre pressure warning  light came 
on and needed  to be checked  again.
The case  has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN53816383Mr G complains about a car he got using a hire purchase agreement. Providing consumer 
credit contracts like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied we can look into Mr Gs 
complaint about  Black  Horse.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says, in 
summary, that under a contract to supply goods  the supplier  Black Horse in this case  
has a responsibility  to make sure the goods are of satisfactory quality  and are fit for purpose.  
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect  taking into account  any 
relevant factors.
In this case, I would  consider relevant factors to be, amongst others, the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that Mr G acquired a brand new car that cost over 
£32,500. I think a reasonable  person would have high standards for the condition and 
performance of the car. And I think they would expect to have  trouble  free motoring for a 
significant amount  of time.
Mr G has complained about several  issues. Ill consider each of these  in turn. Im going to 
focus on what I think are the key facts and issues here. Where I havent  mentioned  or gone 
into detail about  a point raised  by Mr G this isnt because I think  its unimportant   this just 
reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to reassure Mr G, and Black Horse,  that 
Ive carefully considered  all of the information and evidence  on the case.
DPF
I think in this case its clear there  are issues with the DPF in Mr Gs car. I say this as it 
required replacing when  the car had covered just over 16,000  miles,  and Mr G has told us 
hes had ongoing  issues and warning lights in connection with it since.  What I need  to 
consider is what the likely cause of these issues is.
Black Horse  say there isnt anything wrong with the DPF system  itself and the problems 
have been caused by Mr G driving short distances and not allowing the system  to 
regenerate. But, I dont  think  its most  likely this is the case. Ill explain why.
Mr G has given us some detailed information  about  the use of the car. He told us that the car 
was used in the week for a short commute in stop-start traffic. I accept these are not ideal  
conditions for a car equipped with a DPF. But, Mr G also said he used the car for longer 
drives on the weekend and he has a holiday home a substantial  distance from where he 
lives. He says for the majority of the year he drives there every three weeks. And he says 
from around August  2018 he drove  there every two weeks.
Ive considered what the cars handbook says about driving distance and the DPF. This 
says:
Cleaning of the exhaust filter,  also known  as regeneration, occurs automatically every  300-
900km depending on driving  conditions, and requires the engine  to reach normal  operating 
temperature
The self-cleaning takes place when  the vehicle is driven steadily at speeds  between 60km/h 
to 112km/h (40mph to 70mph). This process  normally takes 10-20 minutes. It is possible  for 
self-cleaning to occur at lower vehicle speeds, but the process  may take a little longer at 
50km/h (30mph) average speed.
Ref: DRN53816384I accept the car was used for short  journeys. But looking  at what  Mr G told us about the cars 
use, Im satisfied it was most likely being  taken on journeys which  wouldve allowed  the 
system to automatically regenerate, as per the guidance above.
Ive also thought about what  the handbook says about a situation where a longer journey 
doesnt take place  as pointed out by Black Horse:
Some driving conditions, e.g. frequently driving  short distances, in slow-moving  traffic, or in 
cold weather may not provide sufficient opportunity to begin  the exhaust  filter self-cleaning 
automatically. When this occurs, a warning icon is displayed in the message centre 
depending on status, as follows:
Amber. Exhaust filter self-cleaning is required.  Driving above 60 km/h (40 mph)  for 20 
minutes should clean the filter
NOTES 
Failure to follow the above driving approach to enable  filter self-cleaning,  may result  in 
reduced vehicle  performance.  The amber exhaust filter icon is eventually replaced by a red 
exhaust filter icon, and the filter may need to be replaced.
Red. The exhaust  filter is full. Contact a retailer/authorised repairer as soon as possible. 
Thinking about  this, if the car was used for short journeys only,  it appears the system should  
give an amber warning,  to allow the driver to do a longer run and clear the DPF. Its 
important to note the hand book says the amber light will eventually be replaced by a red 
light. But, Im satisfied  this isnt what happened  in Mr Gs case.
Mr G has been detailed  and consistent when discussing what  happened  with the car. Hes 
said when the warning light has turned red, its done so within a mile or two of the amber  
warning appearing.  This means  it would be impossible to drive  the car in a way to clear the 
DPF as detailed by the handbook. This is not how the handbook explains the system should  
work. So, Im satisfied that, even if Mr G was doing  only short  journeys, the system still 
wasnt working as it should.
Ive considered all of this, along with the timing of when the DPF was replaced. This is a key 
factor to consider here. Im satisfied from what he said that Mr Gs overall driving habits 
didnt change significantly when he had the car, other than him beginning to complete a 
more frequent  number  of longer journeys   which should have given more  opportunity  for the 
DPF to regenerate.  The DPF system  needed  replacing when Mr G had the car for over two 
years and when it had done  over 16,000 miles.
Thinking about  all of this, along with what the handbook said, had the DPF issues  been 
caused by Mr Gs driving style, Im satisfied the DPF wouldve failed much sooner than it did. 
It follows that Im satisfied when the DPF failed adds weight to my conclusion  that the reason 
for it failing was not due to driving style.
Ive also considered what happened  after the DPF was replaced. Mr G says he had warning  
lights after completing  journeys which appear to have been  long enough  to regenerate  the 
system. Mr G has been detailed in his recollections here, so Im satisfied this is likely the 
case.
Ref: DRN53816385Considering all of this, Im satisfied  there  was an underlying  fault with the DPF system. Ive 
thought about Black Horses point that it needed replacing two years after Mr G got the car. 
But, I need to think about the fact that the car was brand new when Mr G got it. The CRA  
says that durability needs to be considered when thinking about satisfactory quality. I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  the DPF to need replacing in this amount of time or 
mileage. So, Im satisfied  the car wasnt  durable. It follows that I dont think it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Ive carefully considered  what Black Horse said in response to the investigators view and 
the comments from the dealer about  the use of the car. It said having  run a drive  cycle 
analysis on the engine, although the time duration  and temperature  results meet the 
conditions for DPF regeneration, the speed and engine loading do not. 
Thinking about  the handbook, I cant see anything about engine loading.  And the handbook 
explains the DPF can regenerate, albeit at a slower rate, at an average  of 30 mph.  Black 
Horse hasnt provided more information apart  from a brief statement.  So, I still havent seen 
enough to make me think its likely  the issues with the DPF were due to how Mr G drove the 
car.
I should also note here that even if I did accept that the issues  were  due to Mr Gs driving  
style  which I dont   I would still uphold the complaint. I say this as Mr G has gone into a lot 
of detail about what was discussed  with the dealer when he got the car. 
Mr G says the dealer  knew  him well as hed already got two cars from it. He says the dealer 
knew the mileage  he expected to do, knew exactly how the car would be used and knew 
exactly how his previous car, which this was replacing, had also been used. Mr G has given 
us a thorough  recollection about the discussion and recalls it in some  detail,  so I find what 
hes said here to be persuasive  I think its most  likely this was the case.
The CRA says goods  should  be fit for purpose   if before the contract  is made the 
consumer makes known  to the trader (expressly  or by implication) any particular purpose for 
which the consumer  is contracting  for the goods. Im satisfied by making  the dealer aware of 
the specific commute and way he would be using the car Mr G did make them aware of a 
particular purpose.  
Having thought about this, Im satisfied Mr G told the dealer exactly how he was going to use 
the car. If how he used  it did then lead to the DPF issues,  then Im satisfied it follows  that the 
car wasnt fit for purpose.
Diesel Exhaust Fluid
Mr G says the car wasnt fit for purpose as he wasnt told about the cars use of diesel 
exhaust fluid  commonly known as AdBlue. Ive considered what  Mr G has said here. I 
understand how strongly he feels about  this issue. And I appreciate Mr Gs previous car 
didnt have this system  in the engine. 
But, having  thought about this, I cant see this has impacted Mr G. AdBlue is a feature of 
many modern diesel engines. It doesnt affect  how the car drives or how its used. The only 
effect on Mr G would be that he would need  to top this up  but, as Black Horse  pointed out, 
this was included  as part of his service  package.  So, Mr G wouldnt have had to pay any 
additional charge for this. Nor do I think this would cause him any inconvenience.
Ref: DRN53816386Thinking about  this, I dont think Black Horse needs to take any action on this point.
Other issues
Mr G has said the car had various other  issues with things like various warning  lights, 
service indicators, issues with the handbrake, the heater not working  etc. There  is limited 
information about these problems. And I accept that some of these are relatively minor.  But, 
I do think a reasonable  person would not have expected to have so many  issues  with a 
brand new car.
Im satisfied that these  smaller issues add weight to my conclusion that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G.
Putting things right
Its important to note here that Im satisfied  various repairs  have taken place  including an 
attempt to repair the issue with the DPF that wasnt successful. 
Our investigator said that she thought  it was reasonable that Mr G be allowed to reject  the 
car. I need  to consider if this is fair, given Mr G now owns the car having made the balloon 
payment. Normally, I may consider that by taking ownership of the car it would appear Mr G 
has accepted  it as it is. But, I need  to think about  the specific circumstances here.  
Looking at the timing,  Mr Gs agreement came  to an end during the first national lockdown 
due to the Covid-19  pandemic. Mr G says he couldnt go to the dealer  to discuss his options 
and did not want  to be left without a car during this time  which seems reasonable. I also 
need to consider that at this point Black Horse  had said it wasnt upholding Mr Gs complaint 
and wouldnt  be taking  any action.  
Thinking about  the specific circumstances of this particular case, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr G to take ownership  of the car even if he intended not to keep it. It 
follows that I dont  think this decision should  affect Mr Gs right to reject  the car.
So, I think its reasonable that Mr G should  now be able to reject the car. I think its clear that 
the car hasnt been performing as Mr G would expect. I understand Mr G had some  minor 
issues before the DPF needed replacing.  But, I think the issues impacted Mr G mainly  after 
the point the DPF needed  to be replaced. 
So, I think its reasonable Mr G gets back 15% of the repayments he made towards the 
agreement from this point.  This only applies to the repayments made  towards the car  not 
any associated insurances.
I also think Mr G should  get back the balloon repayment he made. It appears from the credit 
agreement this should have been £12,721  but I havent seen evidence  of the amount paid. 
If it was a different  amount then this should  be adjusted. 
Thinking about  whats reasonable here, I think Black Horse  should be able to retain  some  of 
the balloon payment from the time Mr G took ownership to the point where  the car is 
collected, to reflect Mr Gs usage of the car. It seems fair for me for Black  Horse to pro-rata 
the monthly payments of £328.87 that Mr G wouldve made under the hire purchase 
agreement towards the car if it was still in place.  As per the previous period, it should 
Ref: DRN53816387however remove 15% of the amount it retains from these repayments due to the impaired 
usage.
Finally, Im satisfied Mr G suffered  distress and inconvenience because  of what  happened 
here. The car broke down on multiple  occasions  and Mr G had to go to the garage to have 
the issues looked at. Mr G also says he was without  a courtesy  car for a few days  while  the 
car was at the dealer.  I think Black Horse should pay Mr G £500  to reflect  this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Black  Horse Limited trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
Take back ownership of the car and collect it from Mr G at a time and date suitable  
for him at no cost
Reimburse Mr G the deposit of £9,000*
Reimburse Mr G 15% of the repayments  made  towards the car since  27 April 2018 to 
when he took ownership*
Reimburse Mr G the balloon repayment he made*. Black  Horse can retain  from this 
amount the equivalent of the prorated monthly  repayments Mr G wouldve previously  
made towards the car under the agreement,  less 15%
Pay Mr G £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly  interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Black Horse  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5381638