K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Allianz  Insurance Plc declined  their claim for damage caused to 
their kitchen floor, made under their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim under  their home  insurance policy  for water  damage to their 
kitchen floor. They say the damage  resulted from a slow leak from their washing machine  
that happened several years before. They were insured with Allianz at the time they say the 
leak occurred. 
Allianz appointed a loss adjustor who remotely  inspected Mr and Mrs Cs kitchen. In their 
report, the loss adjustor said the claim should  be declined because  the damage wasnt 
consistent with the historical leak described. 
The loss adjustor said the floor tiles affected were under the dining table, metres  from the 
washing machine.  He also said he would have expected  the damage to have presented  itself 
long before Mr and Mrs C say they became  aware of it. Photos of the relevant areas  were  
included in the report.
Following the outcome  of this report, Allianz declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim.  
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with this decision and made a complaint. Allianz looked at their 
claim again and replied to their complaint,  upholding  its decision to decline their claim.  
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with Allianzs decision not to pay their insurance claim and 
brought their complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought that Allianz  had acted  correctly  in the circumstances and couldnt 
ask them  to do anything  more.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  and so their case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide this complaint, its my role to consider whether, based on the evidence  
provided, I think Allianz acted fairly in refusing Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen my decision is that Allianz acted reasonably in refusing 
Mr and Mrs Cs insurance claim. Ill explain why.
Allianz needed to look at all the evidence presented to make its decision.  I can see it took 
into account a report from its loss adjustor whose opinion was that the damage wasnt 
consistent with the historical leak described. Allianz  said it would have expected  the tiles in 
front of the washing  machine to have de-bonded as opposed to only the tiles under the 
dining table   which were  several metres away.  Additionally,  it said its loss adjustor would 
have expected the damage to have  presented  itself sooner.   
Ref: DRN50169642Mr and Mrs C provided a photo of what they say is damage to the same  area of their kitchen 
floor caused  by an unrelated leak. They say this shows how water can present in a different 
area from the source of the leak.  They  say this supports the reason why the tiles that de-
bonded, as a result of the historical  leak, were some distance from the washing machine.
I have thought about this but even if I accept that water can leak and flow to other areas, I 
think it isnt persuasive enough to show me that Allianz were  wrong  in refusing 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim.  The photo provided  does show a wet floor but there  is no supporting  
documentation, such as a builders report, to show how the water  got there or how any 
damage was caused. So I think its unreasonable to have expected  Allianz to have been  
persuaded by this photo alone, that the leak from the washing machine was the reason the 
tiles under the dining table de-bonded.  
I note that Mr and Mrs C say they had two flooring contractors inspect the floor and were told 
the damage was probably caused  by a leak of water.  But there is no indication  of when 
and where or how the contractors thought the leak occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C also say the tiles immediately in front of the washing machine have de-
bonded. However, I havent  seen any evidence to support this statement. The photos 
included in the loss adjustors report seems to show, that compared  with the tiles under the 
table, the tiles in front of the washing machine havent de-bonded.  
I have noted Mr and Mrs Cs concerns regarding Allianzs loss adjustors report. But I have 
no reason to question  the findings  of the report. Even if I did disregard this report, I still 
havent seen enough persuasive evidence to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
We have given Mr and Mrs C the opportunity to provide reports from the flooring specialists 
to support their statements but they have  confirmed none are available. 
I think its possible that damage to the floor was caused by a water  leak. But I think  based on 
the information provided and in the absence of any further supporting evidence, Allianz 
acted reasonably in deciding  that the damage wasnt caused  as a result  of the historical leak 
from the washing machine. And it correctly refused Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5016964