K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  they were mis-sold  life cover  by Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax (the business). 
In short,  they say they were sold life cover they didnt need but were told it was a condition of 
their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage of £39,000 protected by an existing endowment policy.   In 
August 2002,  they increased  their mortgage by £35,000 and were recommended  a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which included life cover. 
I note a previous  complaint made by Mr and Mrs B about the PPI element of the TMPP has 
been dealt with separately. 
The business rejected the complaint saying the recommendation for life cover was suitable. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The recommendation took into account the existing cover,  and only recommended  
cover in respect of the unprotected element of the mortgage, so was therefore 
suitable.  
The policy was sold over the telephone  which was common practice  and not in 
branch as suggested by Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary,  they made the following  key points:
They maintain  they were  told the policy was a condition  of their mortgage.  
There was no discussion as to whether  they needed cover.  
If the issue of protection had been discussed  in-depth they wouldve gone  to their IFA 
 who arranged their endowment  policy  in 1985   to source new protection.    
Mr B has been with the business since he was 18 years of age, and he trusted its 
advice that he needed to get life cover  with it.  
Mr and Mrs B had well paid jobs and money  in the bank both in the UK and abroad  
and could afford to pay the mortgage  if one of them died. 
If Mrs B left her company  thereby losing the death in service  benefit  she couldve 
insured herself  elsewhere. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN50122322On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs B say, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation was unsuitable.     
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  its important for me to note I recognise 
Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about  this matter.
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr and Mrs B wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. But its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite Mr and Mrs Bs recollection, Im 
satisfied  based on the screenshots from the business mainframe and STACS system  
that they had some  existing cover in place  at the time,  and that the recommendation was 
made only in relation  to the unprotected portion  of the mortgage. So, on balance,  I think the 
recommendation was reasonable  and complimentary to their existing cover and need  it 
only covered the outstanding borrowing  rather than over insuring them.  
I note Mr and Mrs B say the advisor should  have  taken into account Mrs Bs employee 
benefits when  making  the recommendation. I agree with our adjudicator that employee 
benefits are not generally regarded as an adequate replacement for life cover, because 
these benefits  are not guaranteed. 
It would have been the case  that employee benefits  (such as death in service benefits) 
would have only been available for the duration that Mrs B remained in that particular 
employment, whereas  the policy would continue to run as long as the premiums were  paid. I 
appreciate if she left she could obtain insurance  elsewhere, but the recommended  policy  
provided immediate  cover for as long as the premiums were  paid.
I also appreciate Mr and Mrs B had good  jobs, cash funds and assets, and at the time could 
probably pay the mortgage if one of them passed away. But there were no guarantees that 
their financial  situation wouldnt  change over time and that at some point they wouldnt be 
able to deal with the mortgage.  
This type of policy was designed to remove the necessity for the survivor  to rely upon other 
sources to repay borrowing and to ensure the retention  of the family  home.  Im therefore 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B.  
Mr and Mrs B say they were advised they needed  to take out the policy in order  to secure 
the mortgage, Im mindful of their recollection  in that regard. However, the business says it 
wasnt a condition of the borrowing. 
Its difficult to know  what was said in a meeting over 16 years  ago. Having regard  to the 
available evidence, Im satisfied the TMPP wasnt in fact a condition of the mortgage.  And Mr 
Ref: DRN50122323and Mrs B werent bound  to follow the advice given.  They were free to obtain advice from 
any provider of their choice, including their IFA from 1985. 
Although the level term assurance policy matched the term and value of the mortgage,  a 
policy set up on a decreasing term assurance would have been suitable, because  the level 
of benefit would have reduced  in line with the mortgage until the end of the term. 
But only a level term version  of the TMPP was available,  I understand a decreasing  term 
assurance wasnt available until 2007. 
The business has been able to calculate a directly equivalent priced  policy.  It compared it 
with the closest  equivalent  product available within the wider  group and has subsequently 
confirmed that the level term was cheaper  than the decreasing term assurance  because  
the TMPP was competitively priced and subject  to different underwriting.  On that basis  Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs B were unlikely to have  suffered financial loss. 
I note Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about  the policy pricing mechanism  and that the comparison 
hasnt been done fairly.  But its quite possible that a decreasing term assurance policy 
outside of the TMPP might have been more  expensive  than a level term assurance  policy  
within it. As such, and in the absence of evidence to support the position that the figures  are 
incorrect or misleading, I dont think any additional  detail  regarding the calculation is 
required.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs B say Im unable  to 
safely say that they were  told they had to take cover  with the business.  Notwithstanding what 
they say, Ive seen  no evidence  that they were told the policy was a condition of their 
mortgage.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5012232