K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the poor service  she says shes received from Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix) regarding her pension  plans   especially the large amount of paperwork  she 
received which  she says was unnecessarily difficult to understand. She also says Phoenix 
didnt pay one of her pensions when it was supposed to and she received very little extra  for 
the additional time it was invested.  And she says Phoenix eventually  paid her by cheque  
when she asked for the payment to be made  directly  into her bank.
background
Mrs S took out a pension plan with Abbey Life (now part of Phoenix) in 1989. The plan was 
used to make personal contributions as well as to contract out of the state earnings related 
pension scheme  (SERPS). The normal retirement  date (NRD) for the personal contributions 
was January 2008, but  in line with pension legislation, the contracted  out element had a 
separate retirement date of 25 January 2023. Mrs S made regular contributions  until 
September 1995  after which no further  payments were made.
In 2007 Phoenix  issued  a retirement pack to Mrs S as shed reached her NRD for part of the 
plan. But she advised Phoenix that she wanted to defer the plan for 10 further years. So, in 
2017 Phoenix issued another retirement  pack relating to the same  part of the pension.  The 
pack also explained that the contracted  out part of the pension,  although  it had an NRD of 
January 2023,  could  now be taken  alongside the other part of the pension. This was 
because of a recent  change in pension legislation.
Mrs S returned the relevant forms although  Phoenix had to send them back  initially as they 
were incomplete. Phoenix says it received the correct forms by March 2018 and paid Mrs S 
pension benefits  6 days later. Mrs S then completed the paperwork for the rest of the 
pension which was later paid to her as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum 
(UFPLS).
But Mrs S complained about the service shed  received and especially the amount of 
paperwork which she said was confusing and hard to understand. She also complained  that 
Phoenix hadnt made her aware that she could draw  all her pension  benefits together until 
she rang the contact  centre.
Phoenix didnt  uphold the complaint as it said it had to provide  the amount of paperwork it 
did under  the rules  laid down by the regulator  and it needed to make  Mrs S aware  of all of 
her options.  And it said it had made  her aware  that she could take all her pension benefits at 
the same  time in the earlier retirement  pack.  
Mrs S remained unhappy  so she brought her complaint  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld as she didnt 
think Phoenix had done  anything wrong, although she said it could have provided a better 
service. But Mrs S didnt agree, she said Phoenix had a practice of not paying out on policies 
until its been contacted and she thought this was unfair. She also thought we hadnt 
addressed the issue of the plans overall  returns  especially on the pension benefits that 
had been deferred for 10 years, which she thought  had accrued only a small amount of extra  
interest for being  held for that time. She asked  for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman, so its been passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN52796262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Im in agreement 
with the investigator  and for largely the same  reasons. 
I can see Mrs S feels strongly that Phoenix hasnt provided her with a good service  and I can 
understand her frustration . And shes made a number of detailed points, which I have  read 
and considered. I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail  here will not be taken 
as a discourtesy.  As an informal dispute  resolution  service, we are tasked  with reaching a 
fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary 
for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
But I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong here  and I know that outcome will 
disappoint Mrs S, so Ill explain why.  
Its important to note that during the term of Mrs S plan Phoenix wasnt  acting as her 
financial adviser. Ive seen no evidence to suggest  it was engaged to give her advice on an 
ongoing basis. So Mrs S dealings with Phoenix  have  been on the grounds that it provided 
her with up to date and other necessary information  about her plan  and then implemented 
her instructions around her pension benefits.  And I note that in its correspondence  to her 
Phoenix has signposted the option  for Mrs S to seek financial advice regarding  her 
retirement needs.
Confusing documents
Ive looked at the statements and retirement  packs that Mrs S received.  And I can 
understand why they might be considered difficult to understand and seen as extremely  
comprehensive. But I dont think Phoenix has done  this deliberately. It did have a regulatory  
requirement to provide  annual statements and these would have been issued in line with the 
information the regulator required  to be provided.  And I can see that the value  of Mrs S 
pension plan and the dates that it was due to mature were quite clearly signposted. 
So I think Phoenix provided correspondence and information in line with what it was required 
to and I dont think  its done anything wrong there. 
Im aware that the regulator  is currently working  with providers to suggest ways  of simplifying 
annual statements, so I accept Mrs S point about  them not being easy to understand. But I 
cant blame Phoenix for that as I think it was providing information  in a certain form  as it 
was obliged to do.  
And looking specifically  at the retirement  pack Mrs S received in July 2017, I can see that 
the first page directed her to Pension Wise should she require  further help and guidance on 
how to take her pension.  
Whilst on the second page there were bullet  points regarding Mrs S plan, which  included  a 
value for the plan that she had deferred and confirmation that  following recent legislation   
she was now able to take the benefits  from the contracted out part of the plan as well. So I 
think Phoenix did confirm  the main  points about Mrs S pension in a relatively easier  to 
understand form and did point  her towards  an alternative impartial service that could give 
further guidance if necessary.
Mrs S has said that when she first returned the necessary documents to take her pension 
she was advised   several weeks  later, that they were incomplete and needed to be 
Ref: DRN52796263completed again. Ive seen  the parts of the form that were incomplete and, while I can 
understand Mrs S frustration at the situation, Phoenix would have needed this information to 
be clear about the payments. I think it was for Mrs S benefit that Phoenix ensured she was 
aware of all the risks and options involved in taking  her retirement  benefits.    
Delay in paying  pension after 2008  and question  of when the contracted  out benefit could be 
accessed  
Ive seen a copy  of the retirement pack Phoenix  sent Mrs S in late 2007 which explained that 
she was eligible to take the benefits from her plan and it set out her various  options.  Also 
included was a request to defer form which I can see Mrs S completed and signed  on 
12 December 2007, asking for the retirement age in respect of non protected rights to be 
extended to her 60th birthday. 
Thereafter Phoenix  issued another retirement  pack prior to her 60th birthday in 2017, so I 
dont think Phoenix  did delay in paying  Mrs S pension as it carried out her instructions as 
requested. I note the deferment form also said I confirm that I will notify Abbey Life 
(Phoenix) in writing  if I wish to take the non-protected rights retirement benefits earlier than 
the new retirement age. So Mrs S was made aware of the option of drawing  her benefits 
earlier than she had requested if she wanted to.
And as Ive already said I think Phoenix did make  Mrs S aware that she could take all her 
benefits at the same  time as evidenced within the full retirement  pack it sent her on 
23 November 2017  which included the following  statement on page  two, your policy also 
includes former protected rights benefit  which has a selected retirement date of 
25 January 2023.  Both benefits on your policy can be taken together. Please  contact  us for 
further details. 
And Phoenix  didnt  know if Mrs S would want to take those additional  benefits  as the NRD 
was still around five years away, so  although  it did make Mrs S aware the benefits  could 
be taken  I dont  think Phoenix would have  been  expected to provide  additional  quotations 
and the necessary paperwork to draw the benefits  unless Mrs S specifically informed it that 
she wanted to draw all her benefits together. 
So I dont  think Phoenix did anything wrong in the way it communicated  to Mrs S what  she 
could do with her plans at the various retirement  dates that applied.
I know Mrs S said she then had to contact Phoenix  as her pension  hadnt been paid and it 
was only then that she said she was made aware that the other part of her pension  could be 
paid. And Phoenix  has stated that it processed the payment within  6 days  of receiving the 
final completed paperwork from Mrs S. But Phoenix  backdated the payment to Mrs S normal 
retirement date of 25 January 2018  so Im satisfied that it was paid from the date it became 
due.   
Paying by cheque  instead  of bank transfer 
Mrs S has said that Phoenixs poor service was best demonstrated when it paid her for the 
first part of the pension  by bank transfer but the second part  which  was the larger payment 
 by cheque. She said that highlighted Phoenixs  bad business practices. 
Phoenix has explained that it does  an online verification of a customers bank details before 
it makes a payment.  It said that in Mrs S case the verification for the second  payment didnt  
Ref: DRN52796264match up so it issued  a cheque in the interest  of not causing further delays. And that seems 
a reasonable position  to take in this case. 
Its not clear why the verification failed  but I would expect a business not to make  a direct 
payment to a customer if it had any suspicions  that the account details might  be wrong. It 
would seem appropriate therefore  in this case that Phoenix  didnt delay Mrs S payment any 
longer and paid her without delay using a secure alternative.  So I dont think  Phoenix  did 
anything wrong  in that instance.
Final pay out and additional  returns for extra 10 years
Mrs S also said that she was disappointed with the final returns on her plans  especially the 
lack of extra growth she received on the additional  10 years after she deferred taking 
benefits. And I can understand Mrs S frustrations at what  she received,  although  Ive borne 
in mind that Mrs S didnt  make any additional contributions  to her plan in that time. 
And Mrs S would have  received regular information  on the plans fund value  and investment 
performance so she could have taken action  if she wasnt  satisfied with the returns.
But poor investment  performance  in isolation  isnt something we would normally consider 
as the basis for upholding a complaint. Thats  because the very nature of investments 
means that their value  can fluctuate  depending  on market  conditions, which isnt something 
Phoenix can control. So I cant safely uphold this part of the complaint  because,  and I know  
Mrs S will disagree  with this, I cant say Phoenix  did anything  wrong  which might have meant 
Mrs S didnt achieve the final returns she was hoping for.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279626