K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt action his request to encash a 
policy held within his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) by the date it said it would. The 
proceeds from the sale of the policy were required to complete on the purchase of a property 
and because of the delay  in receiving the proceeds,  Mr D had to arrange separate  funding  to 
cover the shortfall.  He seeks  reimbursement of the costs involved.
background
Mr D held a SIPP which he wanted  to use to buy a commercial property which was available  
at an auction on 22 March 2018. So he asked the SIPP administrator to explain  the process 
involved. It was confirmed that he would  need to meet a 10% deposit himself  at the auction. 
So Mr D arranged a loan for the deposit money  which he paid into his SIPP.  The money  was 
returned to him by the SIPP trustees and Mr D therefore believed he hadnt needed to 
borrow it in the first place.  He raised  a complaint against the SIPP  trustees for the interest he 
incurred. This was considered as a separate complaint against  the SIPP trustees and isnt 
under consideration here. 
But Mr D also needed the funds required to complete the purchase  to be in place by a 
certain date. To acquire  part of the total funds meant  that a policy  held within the SIPP   and 
administered by ReAssure  needed to be encashed  and the proceeds held in cash  within 
the SIPP prior to the completion date.  
The situation  with Mr Ds SIPP was that ReAssure had become the provider following 
changes to the original provider over the years. But the administration  of the SIPP  was 
carried out by a third party, so in this case Mr D had to ask the administrator  to encash the 
policy who then had to ask ReAssure to deal with the encashment.  The funds would then 
have been returned to the administrator to be applied to the cash  account within  the SIPP.
Mr D was successful in obtaining the property  at auction and the completion date was set for 
2 May 2018.  His plan was to cash in the policy within his SIPP, add £20,000  worth  of 
pension contributions, and take out a separate loan to cover  the shortfall  of the £245,000 
that the property  would cost. 
He asked the third party  to instruct  ReAssure  to sell the policy  which it did on 4 April 2018. 
ReAssure has confirmed  that its normal service standards  meant the funds should have 
been applied  to Mr Ds plan by 18 April 2018. But they werent so Mr D chased up his 
request. On 19 April,  the third party said the funds would be paid into his bank account by 
close of business  on 20 April 2018.  But that didnt happen either,  so on 23 April 2018 Mr D 
made contact again. 
. 
He explained  that if all the funds  werent  in his bank account by 3 May 2018, he would lose 
his deposit and charges of around £28,500. 
Funds of £66,918.69 from the ReAssure  policy were paid into the SIPP on 27 April 2018 and 
a debit of £147,549.81 was made  from the SIPP on 2 May 2018 which  allowed  the purchase  
of the property to take place. However,  following a recalculation of the policy  proceeds  
ReAssure identified that not all the money  had been  paid and it provided  the shortfall of 
funds into Mr Ds SIPP account on 4 May 2018. 
Ref: DRN53237222During this time Mr D had arranged alternative  finance through a further  advance  on his 
residential property,  as he was concerned whether ReAssure could complete the sale as he 
had requested. As a result, Mr D complained.  He said ReAssure should pay for the 
additional costs  incurred as a result  of arranging the further advance. These included an 
early redemption penalty of around  £1,700 plus interest  as well as an unnecessary  
telegraphic transfer  charge. Reassure upheld Mr Ds complaint and offered him £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter had caused  him. But it said it hadnt authorised him to 
arrange alternative finance and wouldnt pay the additional costs hed suffered. It said it had 
paid him the policy  proceeds before the completion  of the property was due.
But Mr D wasnt  satisfied with that outcome  and wanted ReAssure to refund his costs. He 
said hed been  correct to set up the separate finance and wouldnt have had to do it if 
ReAssure had encashed his policy by the date it said it would. So he brought  his complaint 
to us.  
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and said it should be upheld. He believed 
that ReAssure  hadnt  acted fairly in this case and should pay Mr D £500 instead of the £250 
it had offered. He felt the offer needed  to be increased because ReAssure had provided 
Mr D with incorrect information about when the funds  would  be provided and as Mr D didnt 
receive the money when he was told he would receive it this had caused him significant  
trouble and upset.
 
But the adjudicator didnt  think  ReAssure  should  compensate Mr D for any expenses  he 
incurred in organising his own finances. He explained that ReAssure did provide the funds 
by the deadline and therefore the fact Mr D had arranged other means  of finance wasnt its 
responsibility and it wasnt responsible  for any extra costs Mr D had incurred.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that ReAssures actions in delaying  the payment had resulted in 
him not wanting  to risk losing around  £28,500  and therefore he felt they should compensate 
him further.  He thought he had no alternative in the circumstances and had taken the 
precautions anyone would have done in the circumstances. Mr D asked for the complaint  to 
be reconsidered so its been passed to me for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. I can see how strongly Mr D feels about  this 
matter and I have  some  sympathy for his position as he was in a difficult  situation  with a 
completion deadline to meet. But I think the award  of £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused is fair  so Ill explain my reasons.
Mr D essentially  has three areas that he thinks he should be compensated for.
1.Interest on the £24,500 deposit loan.
2.Charges of £1,700 plus interest  on his further advance.
3.The Telegraphic Transfer charge on his additional payment of £6,000.
The matter  of the £24,500 loan has been  dealt with through another  complaint against a 
different business,  so Im only considering whether Mr D should  be refunded the charges  
relating to his further advance and telegraphic transfer.
Ref: DRN53237223 
Mr Ds request to encash the ReAssure policy he held within  his SIPP  was first made  to the 
SIPP administrator on 26 March 2018.  An instruction was sent to ReAssure on 4 April 2018.  
And Ive seen an email  from Mr D to the administrator dated 10 April 2018 which  said, 
please  update me on the sale of the ReAssure  policy as I need the money  for completion  on 
2 May so ideally needs to be in my current account in my SIPP by Friday 27 April. The 
response was we can confirm our instructions have been received by ReAssure and are 
currently being processed, they have quoted us a timescale of 5-10 working days.  
So taken at face value the proceeds  should  have been paid by 24 April 2018 at the latest  
although I think its fair to assume that as ReAssure was sent the instruction on 4 April,  the 
5-10 days should have meant payment being  made sometime before 24 April 2018.
And Ive also seen that when Mr D chased up his request on 19 April, he was told he would 
receive the funds  he required by 20 April but ReAssure  didnt  send the money until 
27 April 2018. The final amount also had a shortfall  of £9,323.72, which was paid on 
3 May 2018   after the property purchase  completed. 
So its clear ReAssure didnt make payment within the timescales it quoted the administrator  
and then failed  to provide the outstanding amount before completion. Although I note the 
deadline Mr D gave  to receive the money into the SIPP as being 27 April 2018, which was 
the date that the proceeds were  finally received  in his plan. But considering Mr D was under 
pressure to complete  on the property purchase  by a specific date I dont doubt that this 
situation would have caused  him significant concern and inconvenience. So I think  ReAssure 
should compensate  Mr D for the trouble and upset that was caused  by not paying the 
proceeds of his plan into the SIPP by the due date.
But Mr D says that because he didnt think he was going to receive the proceeds from 
ReAssure in time to complete the purchase, he was left with no choice but to arrange 
alternative finance  and now wants the costs associated with that finance  to be reimbursed. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether Mr D had to take the action  he did, namely to extend his 
mortgage borrowing. 
Ive seen evidence  to show that Mr D asked his bank to arrange  a further advance of 
£85,000 on 18 April.  The funds were available to Mr D from 20 April 2018. As Ive already 
said I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr D to be concerned at that point and to give 
himself some reassurance to ensure hed be able to purchase the property by the 
completion date he was given. But that doesnt  mean that I think  ReAssure should  have  to 
refund the costs  he incurred in doing so, as Ive no evidence to show that ReAssure 
suggested to Mr D that he should  look into alternative finance options or that it wouldnt be 
able to pay the proceeds before the deadline.
.
Mr D was told (incorrectly)  on the 19 April 2018, that his money would be paid into the 
account the following day. And Mr D himself said  in an email  dated 23 April 2018   that I 
refer to your email of 19th April when  you told me the money  was to be in my bank account 
on the 20th. The present  problem has only come to light as a result of me ringing  to check.  
So Mr D had expected  the money to be paid to him on 20 April and only discovered this 
hadnt happened on 23 April 2018. But hed already arranged the further  advance  which  
would suggest  to me that he put that alternative  in place as a backup. 
At the time of his further advance application, although the proceeds  hadnt been paid by 
ReAssure within the timescales that were originally set out, Mr D hadnt been given any 
Ref: DRN53237224indication that there  would be a problem in receiving those funds before the deadline. 
Indeed, the following day he was told he would receive them imminently.  I appreciate  that 
the delays and uncertainty would have caused Mr D a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience and concerned him greatly   which I think should be reflected in the amount 
of compensation  awarded. But Mr D took the actions he did without instruction from 
ReAssure or the SIPP administrator,  so I dont  think ReAssure should have to refund the 
costs Mr D incurred.
I asked ReAssure what provision it would have made had it not been  able to encash the 
policy before  the deadline. It said it could have actioned  a customer  priority payment and 
essentially pre-fund the payment, repaying it when the monies  then came  in. Its not 
possible for me to confirm  whether that would have been the case,  although I think  its 
reasonable for a company like ReAssure  to have such  alternatives  in the event of something 
going wrong. But Mr D didnt ask ReAssure if it could have helped him in that situation. If he 
had he would either have been satisfied that ReAssure would be able to resolve any issues 
with the payment or he could have  asked for its position on whether he should consider 
alternative finance  and whether it would  refund  any costs.   
Ive seen from Mr Ds SIPP statement that £147,549.81 was deducted from the SIPP  cash  
account on 2 May 2018 to pay for the property. This left Mr D with a balance  of £18,204. 
Shortly afterwards the outstanding amount from the sale of the plan was applied to the SIPP 
along with a deduction for reimbursement of the deposit Mr D paid himself. So although Mr D 
was caused inconvenience by the late payment of some of the funds  which  I think should 
be taken into account when considering the overall inconvenience Mr D suffered  I cant  
say it caused  any issues with the purchase of the property. There  were  enough funds  within 
the SIPP to complete on the transaction as required, although I note that the shortfall was 
needed for the administrator to be able to return Mr Ds deposit of £24.500.
Ive also considered Mr Ds request for the refund of the telegraphic transfer charge he 
incurred when he sent £6,000 to the SIPP to cover any shortfall.  But I havent seen any 
evidence to show that Mr D was asked to send  this money and it could never have been 
paid into the SIPP (as a contribution) without being submitted as an application with all the 
relevant paperwork.  The money  was eventually returned to Mr D as it couldnt be accepted  
into the SIPP. So I cant say ReAssure was responsible for Mr D having to send  those funds 
and I dont think it would be fair for me to hold it responsible for the charge that was incurred.
Ultimately here ReAssure didnt pay the proceeds  of Mr Ds policy into his SIPP  until 
sometime after the date it said it should  be able to pay him  and this was confirmed a 
number of times during the process. And when the proceeds were eventually paid there was 
an error and a shortfall of nearly  £10,000.  As Mr D was buying a property  on which he had 
already put a deposit down and had a specific completion deadline, I dont doubt the 
significant amount  of distress and inconvenience this would have  caused  him. 
So, I agree  with the adjudicator here that compensation of £500 for this amount of trouble 
and upset is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and within the range of what  Id 
expect to see for such errors. But ReAssure did provide the funds before completion  and 
didnt advise Mr D to seek alternative  financial arrangements, so I dont  think  it would be fair 
for me to tell it to repay any of the interest  and charges  that Mr D incurred by arranging his 
further advance. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN53237225For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Mr Ds complaint against ReAssure Limited. 
ReAssure Limited should  pay Mr D £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5323722