K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains that FCE Bank  Plc declined her application to modify her hire purchase 
agreement at the end of the initial term.
Background
Mrs H entered into a HPA with FCE Bank  in March  2016 for a car. She maintained  her 
payments through the agreement and says that on 1 May she had the option to hand  back 
the car, pay the optional final payment or modify  the agreement. She says she chose to 
modify the agreement and made an application  through the dealer for the finance. Mrs H 
says she had suffered  ill health over the previous  years and was unemployed at the time of 
the application to modify  the agreement. She says she provided her previous three bank  
statements showing her husbands income and the benefits she received due to her 
disability. She says these  showed the new agreement was affordable.
Mrs H says she received a letter from FCE Bank saying her application hadnt been  
successful. She contacted  FCE Bank  and was told there were  some returned direct  debits 
on her statement and that the monthly payments would increase and were not considered 
affordable. She says that she had maintained her payments and was intending to seek  
employment in due course and says she feels she was discriminated against  due to her not 
being able to work at the time of the application.
FCE Bank says that Mrs Hs application for finance  was declined because  if believed the 
finance would be unaffordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that although Mrs H hadnt missed  any 
payments under her HPA,  her circumstances had changed during the HPA term and the 
payments due under the new finance  agreement would have been higher than those she 
paid under the HPA.
Our adjudicator explained that Mrs Hs application was reviewed and it was decided  the 
finance would be unaffordable. She didnt think that FCE Bank had done  anything wrong as 
it had followed its lending  criteria when making the decision. 
Mrs H didnt accept our adjudicators view.  She explained the income she was receiving  
through her benefits and a carers  allowance and said that her husband  worked full time.  She 
said that when  she asked for the modified agreement she was still waiting for the carers 
allowance to be set up. She reiterated  that she hadnt missed a payment on the car and that 
she believed  the payments under  the modified agreement to be affordable. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H entered into a HPA with FCE in March 2016.  This agreement included  an option to 
purchase the car and the end of the agreement  by making a payment of just over £5,600.  
Mrs H has explained why she wanted to keep the car and that she had made all of the 
payments due under the agreement for the full term. She applied  to FCE to modify  the 
agreement at the end of the term however her application for finance was declined.
Ref: DRN59407842I can understand why Mrs H is upset that her application was declined and I appreciate  her 
need for an automatic car. However, as our adjudicator explained, I can only uphold this 
complaint if I find that FCE acted  unfairly by declining her application. 
In this case FCE has explained that when  it assessed Mrs Hs application it didnt meet  its 
affordability criteria. Mrs H has provided various  documents showing her income  from 
benefits and a carers allowance that she has had confirmed since the application. However 
FCE Bank relied on the information available at the time and based on its assessment, 
which included looking at bank  statements  for the previous three months, it was concerned 
that the new agreement wasnt affordable. Based on what I have  seen I have nothing  to say 
that FCE Bank treated Mrs H unfairly through this process.
I appreciate that Mrs H was noted  as not in employment in her original HPA and that she 
feels that because  she wasnt  in employment  at the time of the new application this was held 
against her. I also note her comments about  her payment history and credit report. However, 
the new agreement  included an increase in the monthly amounts due. It is expected that 
FCE Bank would  carry out affordability  checks before providing finance  and as it didnt find 
that the agreement was affordability I cannot  say it was wrong to decline the application.
Mrs H has sent thought a payment demand form FCE Bank dated October 2019 which 
includes a late payment fee. FCE Banks  has confirmed that the late fee will be waived and 
that the amount owing is the Optional  Final Payment. I find this reasonable.
FCE Bank has also explained that given the arrears  on Mrs Hs account  and that Mrs H has 
had use of the car while the complaint has been ongoing without payments  her account will 
be passed to a debt collection agency  soon. 
Overall, given the circumstances of this complaint, I do not find that FCA Bank has acted 
unfairly towards Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5940784