K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard)  
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs B took out a credit card over the phone in July 2000, and PPI was applied  to her 
account shortly after in August 2000.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclaycard disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to make  it clear to Mrs B that the policy was optional, and it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account. 
Mrs B says she had no interest in PPI and would not have taken it. 
Barclaycard says the policy  was most  likely sold when Mrs B called to activate her card, but 
due to the amount of time thats  passed  since the sale took place, they no longer hold a copy  
of a call recording or script  to confirm what the adviser might have said. Barclaycard says 
the adviser would  have  assessed Mrs Bs circumstances  and confirmed she wanted the 
policy before  applying it to her account. It added that its unlikely the optional nature wouldnt 
have been made clear  and that Mrs B had the option  to cancel it within  30 days.
Barclaycard has provided a copy of the credit  agreement  that was completed when the card 
was sold in July 2000. This clearly shows that Mrs B said no to taking PPI during the initial  
call she had with Barclaycard. And Mrs B has signed the agreement, confirming her 
selections  including that she did not want PPI. 
I agree  with Barclaycard that its more  likely  than not the PPI was added when Mrs B called 
to activate her account. That means Mrs B wouldnt have been able to start using her credit 
card before the call involving the PPI sale. So, although Mrs B had previously declined PPI, 
on its own, this isnt enough to persuade me Mrs B knew she could  activate her card and 
begin using it without agreeing to the PPI.
As Ive said above,  the calls took place within a short period of time of each other  around 
two and a half weeks. And Mrs B chose not to take PPI based on the information she was 
given during the first call. So, Id want to know what Barclaycard said differently to change 
Mrs Bs mind about taking  the policy during the second phone call. 
Ref: DRN56229322As Barclaycard has been unable to provide a recording  of the call or a call script to confirm 
what might  have been said  I havent seen enough evidence to persuade  me that Mrs B 
would have changed her mind  about  not wanting  the policy in such a short space  of time. 
And I dont  think being able to cancel the policy  once it had already been arranged makes  a 
difference in this case. 
So, I think Mrs B paid for the policy even though she didnt really want it and Barclaycard 
should put her back in the position she would have been in if the PPI had not been sold.
Putting things  right
Barclaycard should  put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclaycard should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when  she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclaycard should  then refund the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclaycard can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclaycard should add simple  interest on the difference  between what  Mrs B would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclaycard works out what Mrs B would have owed each month  without PPI 
 Mrs B paid more than enough  to clear her balance,  Barclaycard should also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs B would have owed Barclaycard something  on her credit  card.  The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Barclaycard should tell Mrs B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Barclay Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56229323
Ref: DRN5622932