K820x#14complaint
UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) decided Mr B and Miss Ts car was uneconomical to repair  
following a non-fault accident. Mr B and Miss T dont agree that the amount offered by UKI to 
settle the claim fairly reflects the value of their car before the accident.
background
In its response to Mr B and Miss Ts claim,  UKI offered them  £7,200. It says its engineer 
considered one of the major  industry  valuation guides as well as mileage, condition,  service 
history, market trends  and any non-standard fittings. It explained that, by market trends it 
means it considers  the market in the local region, rather than just the value from a valuation  
guide reflecting  the national market.
Mr B and Miss T didnt  agree with the valuation, so UKI asked another  of its engineers to 
review it. The second engineer agreed with the first, so UKI told Mr B and Mrs T it wasnt 
prepared to increase  its offer.
Our investigator looked into the circumstances when  Mr B and Miss T brought  their 
complaint to us. She explained  to Mr B and Miss T shed considered  four industry valuation 
guides; UKIs engineers reports; advertisements  for similar cars; and Mr B and Miss Ts 
policy wording. And, having looked at how UKI arrived  at its offer,  said she thought it had 
done all wed expect  and its offer was fair.
Mr B and Miss T disagreed and asked  for their case to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. They said the valuations used focussed on a 1.5 litre engine, while their car 
was a 2 litre model. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To reach my decision, Ive looked  at whether UKI fairly assessed  the value of Mr B and Miss 
Ts car and whether it did so in line with its own policy wording.
UKIs policy wording says:
We will not pay more  than the market  value of your car at the time of the loss (less 
any excess that may apply) .
In its policy  booklet,  UKI defines market value as:
The cost of replacing  your car with another of the same make and model and or a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident  or loss.
So, I think its reasonable that UKI should value cars using the retail price  of comparable 
cars shown  in industry valuation guides. But, in its own factsheet  - provided  to Mr B and Miss 
T - it says it also takes mileage, condition,  service history,  market trends and any non-
standard fittings into account.
Ref: DRN51862032I can see from UKIs letter to Ms T of 19 January 2019 that it valued the car at £7,200 and 
made no adjustments, except one for the policy excess.
I note from emails between Mr B and UKI that he believed UKI valued  the vehicle assuming 
the wrong size engine  and confirmed that his was a 2 litre not 1.5. UKI responded saying it 
had valued the car assuming it was a 2 litre engine. Mr B and Miss T havent said there were 
any non-standard fittings.
Our investigator gathered evidence from the major  industry valuation guides  and private  
advertisements. So Ive looked at these - mindful  of the correct engine size  to see how 
they compare  with UKIs valuation.
I looked at four major  industry valuation guides.  The highest price quoted  was £6,970 and 
was based on a Nissan Qashqai+2 Acenta with 5 doors, Mr B and Miss Ts stated mileage  of 
83,000 and a 2 litre engine. So, Im satisfied this is a fair comparison.
Ive seen that our investigator searched the private sale market, noting a wide variety  of 
asking prices for cars of similar specifications to that of Mr B and Miss Ts car. But, 
significantly, those  of a mileage equal to or higher than that of their car were priced below 
UKIs valuation. So, I dont think the private sale market indicates Mr B and Miss Ts car was 
worth more at the time of the accident  than the amount UKI has offered. And Ive seen no 
evidence of any local market trends  differing from the valuations shown in the major industry 
guides.
Our own research indicates a retail value for Mr B and Miss Ts car lower than that given by 
UKI. And UKI appears to have considered the valuation as it said it would in its policy 
wording. So Im satisfied  that its settlement offer is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Miss Ts complaint against U K Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5186203