K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) declined  the claim 
she made on her critical illness policy for aortic  valve replacement  surgery. 
background
Mrs R wanted extra financial protection in case she became  ill, so in 2003 she bought policy  
number ending 6138 with L&G, on an advised basis through an appointed representative of 
L&G. It was a decreasing  term assurance policy, including critical illness cover.  The policy  
terms and conditions said it would  pay Mrs R the sum assured if, within  the life of the policy, 
she was diagnosed as needing Heart Valve  Replacement or Repair. Undergoing open-heart 
surgery from medical necessity to replace or repair one or more  heart  valves.
Mrs R and her husband  wanted additional  protection when they re-mortgaged so in 2009 
Mrs R bought policy number ending 4215  with L&G,  on an advised  basis through  an 
appointed representative of L&G. It was a level term assurance policy,  including  critical 
illness cover.  The policy terms and conditions said it would pay Mrs R the sum assured if, 
within the life of the policy,  she was diagnosed  as needing Heart  Valve Replacement or 
Repair - with surgery to divide the breastbone. The undergoing of surgery requiring median 
sternotomy (surgery to divide the breastbone) on the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist  to 
replace or repair one or more  heart  valves.
In August  2017  Mrs R was diagnosed  with aortic valve stenosis and required aortic valve 
replacement (AVR) surgery to treat this. A range of surgical techniques are possible for 
AVR, and Mrs Rs medical  notes suggest  her preference was to undergo the less invasive 
anterior right thoracotomy (ART)  technique,  which requires an incision but doesnt require 
division of the breastbone, as opposed to the more invasive  median  sternotomy  technique, 
in which  the breastbone is divided. 
Mrs R says she called L&G in February 2018  to check if keyhole surgery  was covered under 
her policies. She says in that call, L&G acknowledged she had a claim on both policies and 
sent her two claim forms. It seems  that around  this time Mrs R completed and returned the 
two claim forms  to L&G. Mrs R says that in a further  call with L&G in May 2018, it accepted 
she had a valid claim on both policies.
Mrs R says that in June 2018, about  a week or two before her planned surgery  date, L&G 
wrote to her to say it was declining her claims because AVR via keyhole surgery wasnt  
covered under her policies  only AVR via sternotomy was covered. Mrs R was unhappy that 
L&G had accepted she had valid claims and then changed  its mind and declined them. So 
she complained.
L&G sent her its final response  on 27 June 2018.  It said it had to assess  claims in line with 
the policy wording  and, since Mrs Rs surgery wasnt covered under her policies, it had 
correctly declined her claims. It acknowledged  that in August 2012 it had changed its new 
policies to cover keyhole  surgery,  but said it couldnt retrospectively apply this change  to 
existing policies. And that while it advertised such changes and told financial advisors about 
them, it didnt directly  contact existing customers to tell them.  However, it said it had misled  
Mrs R when shed called  in May 2018 to check if her policies covered keyhole  surgery,  and 
offered £75 for the distress and inconvenience  this had caused her. And it gave Mrs R 
referral rights to our service, saying shed need  to contact us within six months or our service 
might not be able to look into her complaint.
Ref: DRN54864922On 29 June 2018 Mrs R underwent AVR via keyhole  surgery.  She says that about three 
weeks later L&G sent her a claim pack for policy 6138, which she completed  and submitted. 
L&G paid this claim in September  2018, bringing policy 6138 to an end.
But L&G didnt accept  a claim on policy 4215,  so in September 2018 Mrs R complained  
about that to L&G.  She said L&G should accept the claim based  on her condition, and not 
the type of surgery  shed  had to treat it. She said it wasnt fair that, after shed bought her 
policy, L&G had updated the wording so new customers  would be covered for AVR via 
keyhole surgery, and that it hadnt  told her about this. And Mrs R said some patients  had 
undergone AVR via keyhole surgery in 2007,  in other words  that keyhole  surgery was an 
option for patients before she bought policy 4215,  which required AVR via the more invasive 
sternotomy in order for a claim  to be valid.
In October  2018 L&G sent Mrs R a further  final response,  though the response itself was 
dated 27 June  2018. In that response, it said it hadnt changed its decision to decline the 
claim on policy 4215. It said the policy definition was clear, and Mrs R didnt meet  it because  
she hadnt had a sternotomy. It said that when Mrs R bought  policy 4215, it had given her a 
policy document explaining the definitions that had to be met for a valid critical illness  claim. 
And that while other patients had undergone AVR via keyhole surgery,  its policy wording 
followed guidelines  from the Association of British Insurers (ABI). It said again it didnt 
directly contact existing customers to tell them about changes  to new policies, but instead 
advertised and told financial advisors.  And it gave Mrs R referral rights to our service and 
said she had six months  from its previous letter dated  27 June 2018 to contact  us.
Mrs R disagreed and in January 2019 she brought her complaint to our service. Initially  L&G 
said Mrs R had brought it too late for us to consider, as she hadnt contacted  us within  six 
months of its first final response in June 2018. 
But our investigator said L&G had first declined Mrs Rs claims before she underwent 
surgery and that in its first final response, it said it would reconsider its decision to decline 
her claims if new information was provided.  Our investigator said Mrs R said her AVR 
operation went differently  than planned, and that L&G seemed to have been  provided with 
significant new information since it changed  its position and paid one of her claims. 
In response L&G said it was no longer seeking to time bar Mrs Rs complaint, so our 
investigator went on to consider Mrs Rs complaint points. He thought  Mrs Rs claim under 
policy 4215 hadnt met the policy definition, and that the definition  itself was fair. He thought 
L&G hadnt  unfairly restricted Mrs Rs cover or done  anything wrong by covering certain 
treatments as well as certain conditions. He also didnt think L&G were required to tell Mrs R 
about changes  to new policies, and that Mrs Rs consultant not recommending  a sternotomy 
didnt change the overall outcome of the complaint since  her claim would only be payable if 
shed had a sternotomy.
Mrs R still thought her condition should  be covered under the policy  if it was severe  enough 
to require an operation. And that it was unfair  for L&G to change the policy conditions over 
the years  and to only pay a claim if a sternotomy is carried  out, despite other surgical 
techniques being possible.  So her complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision.
Ref: DRN54864923my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking L&G to 
do anything further.  I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs R, so Ill explain why.
L&G changed policy wording and didnt tell Mrs R.
Mrs R bought policy 4215 in 2009.  The policy  says Heart Valve Replacement  or Repair - 
with surgery to divide the breastbone. The undergoing of surgery  requiring median  
sternotomy (surgery to divide the breastbone) on the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist  to 
replace or repair one or more  heart  valves.. Based on this, I think the policy  clearly  sets out 
that AVR surgery had to be carried out via median sternotomy in order for a claim to be valid 
under this policy. 
Mrs R says its unfair that L&G then changed  its policy wording in 2012,  so that anyone 
buying a policy from then on would be covered for the type of surgery she had. And shes 
unhappy it didnt  tell her about  this so she could ensure she was protected.
L&G was following guidance from the Association  of British Insurers  (ABI) when  Mrs R 
bought policy 4215 in 2009 and when L&G changed the policy  wording in 2012. The ABI 
promotes best practice within the insurance industry, and its guidance can change over time 
as medicine and technology develops. So I dont  think its unreasonable that L&G also 
changed its terms over time in order to stay in step with ABI guidance. 
L&G isnt obliged to tell individual consumers about  changes to new policies its selling, so 
I cant say it did anything  wrong by not telling Mrs R. If Mrs R had queries about her cover  Id 
expect her to check with L&G, which she did and which Ill now turn to.
L&G told Mrs R she might be covered
Based on Mrs Rs testimony and L&Gs system notes Im satisfied that, when Mrs R called 
L&G in May 2018 to check if keyhole  surgery would be covered  under her two policies, it told 
her it would consider  it. I think L&G was incorrect to tell her that because, based on the 
wording of policy 4215, Mrs R was never going to be covered under that policy  for either 
keyhole surgery (a surgical  technique  that can be used to carry out AVR,  and what Mrs R 
had asked about),  or ART (the surgical  technique preferred by Mrs R and recommended by 
her consultant, and that she underwent). 
I think this would have  caused Mrs R distress and inconvenience, as her hopes were 
incorrectly raised and she unnecessarily  completed  and submitted a claim form. However  
L&G declined Mrs Rs claim about six weeks later, so I think  her hopes were  raised  for a 
relatively short period  of time. L&G has offered Mrs R £75 compensation for this, and I think 
thats fair in the circumstances. In any case,  this issue  doesnt  seem to be in dispute.
L&G declined claim under policy 4215 
Mrs R says she bought  this policy in good  faith,  and that having her claim declined has left 
her in financial hardship. And that L&G have attempted to restrict claims by not recognising  
that patients had keyhole  surgery  for AVR in 2007. 
Ref: DRN54864924As Ive said,  the terms of policy  4215 make clear  that AVR surgery had to be carried  out via 
median sternotomy in order for a claim to be valid under this policy.  And as Ive also said,  
the policy wording  was based on guidance from the ABI at that time, so L&G had followed 
industry best practice. In addition, the policy premiums  and coverage  would have  been  
based on the information Mrs R gave when  she bought the policy. For these  reasons,  I dont  
think L&G unfairly restricted  Mrs Rs policy.
The medical notes  from the time of Mrs Rs operation show  her AVR was carried  out via 
ART, which requires an incision but doesnt divide the breastbone. So her AVR surgery  
wasnt carried out via median sternotomy. Therefore I dont think L&G was unreasonable  to 
say Mrs Rs claim hadnt met the policy definition.
Taking all this into account, I think L&G acted fairly in declining  this claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited should pay 
Mrs R the £75 compensation it has already  offered her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5486492