K820x#14complaint
Mr F says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr F took out a PPI policy  twice (on the same account) sometime  after taking out a credit 
card. He took out the credit card by post and he took out both PPI policies by phone  in 2000 
and then again in 2001. 
At the time of both sales, Mr F was employed as a security officer.  He has told us he 
believes he was entitled to statutory sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying 
his credit card should he be unable to work.  Mr F has made no mention  of any entitlement  to 
redundancy pay either. Mr F has said he was in good health at the time of each sale. 
Each policy provided cover for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay 3% of Mr Fs credit card balance  in the event of a 
successful claim  for disability and unemployment   it would have paid off the outstanding 
balance for a life claim. At the time, they cost 68p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
MBNA has sent us evidence to show that Mr F cancelled  the first policy by phone  around 
one month  after taking it out and he cancelled the second policy  also by phone around  four 
months after taking  it out. MBNA has also sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card 
account closed  in 2006.
MBNAs records showed Mr F paid 27 pence for the first policy  and around £127  for the 
second policy.
Mr Fs representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
MBNA failed to meet the sales  standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means MBNA should  have  
told Mr F about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN53382672The common law duty of utmost good faith also means MBNA should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr F and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
This first sale took place  in 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC)  
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this part of the complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG).
The second  sale took place 2001 before  the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are also not 
applicable to this part of the complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN53382673There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  for the second  sale The General Insurance  Standards Councils  
General Insurance Code for private  customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
And for both sales - The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published  a number of 
codes, which  I consider to be indicative of the standards of good  industry  practice expected 
from intermediaries, like MBNA, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like MBNA  at the times  in question.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes 
into account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr Fs case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. Both sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity, so 
MBNA was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Fs complaint.  
key questions
Ref: DRN53382674Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If MBNA  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether MBNA gave  Mr F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
MBNA, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr F know he had a choice?
MBNA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Both sales were by phone. MBNA no longer  has call recordings  and this isnt surprising 
given how long-ago things happened. But it has provided example call scripts that it says its 
advisers would  have followed during the calls with Mr F. Looking  at these I can see the 
adviser was prompted  to specifically gain consent from a consumer for PPI to be added  to 
their account  after the adviser had given a brief description of what  the cover was.
Im mindful that Mr F had already been using his credit  card for several years  around  five 
at the time of the first sale  so I dont think Mr F would have been under the impression that 
he had to have  PPI. 
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened during the phone calls Mr F had with MBNA, I think  its more  
likely that Mr F knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  
pressure. 
did MBNA  provide advice?
Mr F says he cant remember  whether he received advice or not. MBNA says it didnt 
provide advice during this sale. Looking at what happened  when  MBNA  sold Mr F the PPI on 
each occasion   in particular based on the example call scripts MBNA has provided  - Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice. 
Ref: DRN53382675This means  MBNA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr F. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr F to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
MBNA has provided us with Mr Fs credit card application from 1995, which  shows  Mr F 
chose not to have PPI at this time. It has also provided us with the example call scripts Ive 
referred to and a copy of the paperwork it says Mr F wouldve received after the calls,  
including the policy terms and conditions and summary of cover   which I accept on a 
balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Fs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr F at the time, I dont think MBNA  gave Mr F the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
The sales  took place  over the phone. While I dont know exactly what  MBNA told Mr F about 
the PPI on either occasion, the call scripts suggest he would have been given a broad 
outline of the nature  of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. And it seems likely he would have been  told the basic  cost  68 pence  for every £100 
he owed in the card. 
But it was MBNAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Fs attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
I dont think its likely  MBNA did enough to do this on either  occasion.  For example, the 
evidence doesnt  show that its likely the true cost of the policy  was made  clear  to Mr F, 
including the need to maintain premiums  during  a claim  or that the payments would attract 
interest. In addition, Im not persuaded MBNA adequately drew  to his attention the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions before it asked him for his 
agreement to take it out.
So I dont  think MBNA gave Mr F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN53382676-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr F has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that MBNA  ought to have done either.  
what effect did MBNAs shortcomings  have on Mr F? To what extent did Mr F suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that MBNA didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr F. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr F suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr F would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had MBNA done things properly. 
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr F had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr F chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr F thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr F has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr F ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   the 
call scripts  suggest he would have been told this. But, I accept  that MBNA didnt make  clear 
the on-going cost information. So while Mr F didnt know some things, the ultimate position in 
the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought 
from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr F knew about 
before the start date of the policy or had arranged to see a doctor about in the 12 
months before the start date;  
Ref: DRN53382677The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do his own job, or any other  work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do. 
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mr F turned  65. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr F pause for thought  and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved beneficial to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr F didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr F might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr F 
from taking out the policy,  Mr F, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr F was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Mr F has complained that he reached 65 while the policy  was in place - and he wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mr F was 52 when he first took out the PPI, so 
I think its more likely than not hed have thought hed still get some use and benefit  out of 
having the PPI, as it would have covered him for a reasonable  period of time before he 
turned 65. And the policy would end when he turned 65, so he would stop paying  for it at this 
point. 
 
Ref: DRN53382678Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr F would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means beyond  he thought, statutory 
sick pay of meeting his credit card repayments  if he was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness and, it appears,  redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not that he would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr F would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr F 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude MBNA  should pay Mr F compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  MBNA  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  
Ref: DRN53382679While I accept there is a possibility a court might  conclude  some of MBNAs  statements 
misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why MBNA failed to act fairly and 
reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided   but 
because the overall  information MBNA  gave  Mr F, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  
the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2000  and 2001  
when providing  information about  an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find MBNA negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr F and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that MBNA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr F in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5338267