K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about his home  insurer AA Underwriting Insurance  Company Limited 
(AA) as it has avoided  his cover (treated it as though  it never existed)  and by so doing 
declined Mr Fs claim made to it after a fire occurred in his garage.
background
Mr F arranged cover  with AA in June  2017.  Whilst Mr F is a director of a limited  company, 
the registered address of which in 2017  was Mr Fs home address, when he was asked 
during the application  if his home was used for business purposes,  he said it was not.
On 1 August  2017 there was a fire in Mr Fs garage. The cause was found to be a battery 
that had been left on charge. The battery was for an electric bike that was owned by Mr Fs 
limited company. Mr F made a claim to AA and it began investigating the matter.  It asked 
Mr F to agree to be interviewed on tape. Mr F agreed but then, on the day of the interview, 
changed his mind. He later gave a statement.
In November 2017 AA wrote  to Mr F setting out some concerns it had and asking for 
various pieces of information from Mr F. Mr F responded but, in the main, he said AA 
should go to the limited  company directly  if more detail was required about  the way it 
conducted its business. AA told Mr F it expected him to cooperate  and provide the 
information it had asked for. A final response was issued to this effect in December 2017.
In 2018 Mr F began providing  information to AA. In May 2018 AA noted that one piece of 
information was outstanding. This was duly received and AA reviewed everything.  AA felt 
when Mr F had arranged  the policy, he had misrepresented to it that no business  use was 
conducted from his property. It said if it had been  told the home was used for business 
purposes, it wouldnt have offered cover. Mr F disputed that the home was used for his 
business:
The registered address  was just an administrative issue  and given as customers  like to 
think they are dealing with a company  founded in bricks  and mortar  but in reality the 
business is a virtual one, with everything being outsourced  and no real base existing.
Bikes are loaned to him by the company for his own personal  use.
As someone with bikes in his possession it makes sense for him to offer potential  
customers of the company the chance to come to his home to test drive/ride  them, thats 
just all part of being a member of the virtual community.
No stock for sale is kept at his address, no sales are made  from there, no repairs  or 
returns are completed there.
All business functions  such as a customer service call centre, transport and storage are 
outsourced.
His home  isnt registered with the council for business use  and if he was selling items 
from his home his neighbours would complain.
Our investigator felt that Mr F had likely misrepresented  that the house wasnt used for 
business purposes when he arranged cover. He was particularly mindful  that Mr F, as a 
company director, had use of company assets at his home, and also made those assets  
available at his home for prospective  purchasers  to test drive.  And Mr Fs home  was also 
the registered office of the company. So he felt Mr F should have told AA that his home was 
used for regular or other  business  use, as opposed to selecting the option of no 
business use.
Ref: DRN58679862Mr F was dissatisfied. He didnt think wed shown or seen that AA wouldnt have offered a 
policy if it had known  about the business  use  which he still disputed. He said hed never 
given any thought to the idea that what he was doing might  affect  or have a bearing on his 
home insurance. Mr F also argued that the AA website was unclear as whilst it said cover  
was given based on a list of assumptions,  including that the home isnt used for business,  it 
also suggests that if those assumptions  dont apply, cover might still be offered. Mr F said 
that his answer  to the questions had only been inadvertently incorrect, certainly nobody had 
argued it was deliberate  or fraudulent, so he should be entitled to proportional settlement of 
the claim.  In terms of an inadvertent non-disclosure,  avoidance  and the consequences  of 
it  was draconian  and unfair.
I considered the complaint and felt similarly  to our investigator.  However,  I wanted  to 
explain the relevant  legislation  that applied, so I issued a provisional decision to which  both 
parties had the chance to respond. AA said it accepted my decision. Mr F said he felt there 
was little else he could  say to challenge it and he, therefore, accepted it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, I see no need to change  or move 
away from them. They are copied here:
The relevant legislation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires a prospective policyholder to take reasonable care to 
not make  any misrepresentation to the insurer when applying  for cover.  If a 
misrepresentation is made which is a qualifying misrepresentation then the insurer will be 
allowed to take certain  action.
If reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective policyholder and the insurer  can show  
that if it had been,  it wouldnt have entered  in to the insurance contract, or it would but only 
on different terms, the misrepresentation  made is seen to have been a qualifying one.
Whether the prospective  policyholder took reasonable care will depend in part on whether 
the question asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific enough to elicit from the reader 
what it really was the insurer wanted to know.
AAs question was simple - is the property used for business use - and several options 
were given for Mr F to choose from, including, as mentioned above; regular and other.  
I think, particularly  with the inclusion  of the options, the question is clear  and very specific. 
Mr F answered no so I need  to consider whether that was a reasonably  correct  answer.
A lot of activity was referred to by AA and even  our investigator. One thing that I note from 
Mr Fs responses  during  the claim and complaint is that he says whenever the business 
takes on new stock,  he ensures  one example is sent to him so he can try it out in order  to 
check its quality and understand  how it works. I think  any business person carrying  out that 
type of activity is aware they are undertaking due diligence   a key business function. Mr F 
may have  had a personal interest  in the bikes as well  but I think  if that had been his main  
priority hed reasonably  have purchased the bikes in a personal capacity. I dont think Mr F 
took reasonable care to give a correct  answer.
Ref: DRN58679863As Im satisfied that Mr F didnt take reasonable care when answering AAs question, I need 
to consider whether AA has shown it would  have done anything  differently. AA has provided 
an extract  from its underwriting guide.  This confirms it doesnt  provide cover where homes  
are used for business  purposes. Therefore, if Mr F had taken reasonable care in answering 
its question on this subject, AA wouldnt have offered cover.  Even if Mr F had called and 
discussed the issue, the guide satisfied me that AAs answer  (no cover) would have been 
the same. The misrepresentation Mr F made  when he failed to take reasonable care in 
answering AAs question was, therefore,  a qualifying one.
As mentioned above CIDRA allows  the insurer to do certain things when a qualifying 
misrepresentation has occurred. It doesnt  make any allowance for the qualifying 
misrepresentation being inadvertent. The only difference is if it was reckless or deliberate, 
which no-one has suggested this was. Where  it is non-deliberate and non-reckless CIDRA  
says the insurer  can set the clock back to reflect what  it would  have done  if the correct  
answer had been  given.  Here, as AA wouldnt have offered a policy it avoided the cover,  
and that also meant  there was no cover for the fire claim to be considered  under. Whilst 
I appreciate this will have  consequences for Mr F, as AA has acted in line with the relevant 
legislation, I cant reasonably criticise it or require it to do anything  else.
These are now the findings of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5867986