K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited has dealt with his
pensions, in particular  that it prevented him from paying into one of his pension plans and
incorrectly treated that pension as paid up.
background
Mr P had a number of pensions with Aviva. In 2004,  after changing bank accounts,  he found  
that monthly direct debit  payments  into his pension were not being accepted. Aviva asked 
him to complete  new forms of authority but despite  doing this several times, the direct debit 
payments were not reinstated.  This was because Avivas system couldnt accept a new 
direct debit for legacy  policies  Mr Ps had been  set up with a previous company which had 
become a part of Aviva.
Mr P complained to Aviva through his financial adviser. Following advice  from his adviser, he 
decided to transfer most of his pensions to another provider,  but kept two pensions,  which  Ill 
call Plan A and Plan B, with Aviva.
In 2017 Mr P complained to Aviva  about the way his pensions  were being  managed. Aviva 
accepted that there had been a number of failings  and offered compensation of £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused. It said the issues regarding Plan B had been 
resolved. But in relation to Plan A, it said this was correctly marked as paid up as no further 
payments were being made into the plan, and Aviva  said Mr Ps financial adviser had 
confirmed in 2005 that he no longer wished to make direct debit payments.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. She said there was evidence Mr Ps 
financial adviser had told Aviva not to continue with efforts to reinstate the direct debit, and it 
was reasonable  for Aviva to follow  that instruction. She also said Aviva  had given  Mr P the 
option of paying by cheque and it was Mr Ps decision not to do that. But she thought the 
time taken  trying to resolve the direct debit issues between September  2004 and March 
2005 was too long and had caused  Mr P distress and inconvenience.  She asked Aviva  to 
pay compensation of £200 for this, in addition to the £400 already offered for the other 
issues.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicator. Amongst other things, he said:  
It wasnt correct  that his financial adviser  had told Aviva not to continue with the 
direct debit   they continued trying to set up a direct debit  after March 2005, and the 
reason it wouldnt  work was that Aviva had decided not to accept any new payments 
into this type of pension. 
It wasnt possible to pay by cheque  without extra inconvenience and cost to him as 
he was using a bank account  that didnt provide a cheque book. He offered to pay by 
direct transfer into Avivas bank account and that offer was refused.
Although he later decided to transfer other pensions to another provider, there  was 
never any intention  to move these  two pension plans.
The reasons  Aviva gave for making  Plan A paid up when he complained in 2008  are 
now totally invalid; it was based  solely on the fact that he wasnt able to pay by 
cheque and he has since found that the terms and conditions said all payments into 
the plan must be made by direct  debit  so by not allowing  this to happen, Aviva was 
in breach of its own terms.
Ref: DRN55832552The compensation for the problems between September 2004 and March  2005 is too 
little and doesnt account for the fact that not allowing him to make payments  has 
reduced the value  of Plan A by over £2,000 per year.  
The value of the pension pot itself should  be increased to take account of the 
additional payments that he was prevented from paying between  September 2004 
and his retirement date in January  2017.
Another adjudicator  reviewed the complaint. She noted  that there had been previous 
complaints to this service  about both Aviva  and Mr Ps financial adviser. She said it wasnt  
unusual for businesses to have  problems  with their computer systems and she noted  that 
Aviva had offered  the option  of paying by cheque. She thought  Mr P could have made other  
arrangements to pay.
The adjudicator also said that we wouldnt be able to look at matters which had already been 
complained about in 2008. Having said that, she felt the additional payment of £200  for the 
original problems on top of the £400  offered by Aviva for the most recent issues  was 
adequate compensation  for the trouble and upset caused to Mr P, particularly in the light of 
compensation already paid as a result of other complaints to us.
Mr P didnt agree with this adjudicator. He has provided detailed  comments.  I wont set them 
out in detail, but in summary  the key points are:
The adjudicator  made  comments  about  a lot of issues, including previous complaints 
to this service. But much of this is not really  relevant. This complaint is specifically 
about two things:
-the main issue is to reinstate the paid up Plan A, which Aviva wrongly stopped  
him paying into;
-he would  also like fair compensation  for the more  recent  issues,  as he doesnt 
think the amount  offered so far is fair.
All he ever wanted to do regarding Plan A was continue the payments of £50 per 
month; he never wanted to increase that payment or stop it. His other pension plans 
were set up at other times and were  not related to the problems  with this plan.
Aviva  stopped the payments and wouldnt accept  a direct payment into its account 
either; after he changed bank accounts,  this was considered a new payment and it 
had made a policy decision not to accept any new payments  into this type of plan.
It wasnt simply down  to a problem with its computer system  if it had been that, it 
would have been resolved within days or weeks  not months or years.
This was in breach of the terms and conditions.
To pay by cheque,  he would have had to pay a £30 fee and travel to a bank branch 
every month. It wasnt reasonable to expect  this.
The reason  he brought  this complaint, so long after his original complaint, is that he 
came across new evidence that wasnt available to him before  namely
-Aviva  had made a commercial decision to prevent any updated  payments into 
this type of plan;  and
-the terms and conditions made it clear all payments had to be made by monthly 
direct debit.
He has been  advised that these facts amount to significant new evidence that would 
justify looking into his complaint again.  
As there was no agreement on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
Ref: DRN55832553I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
During the course of our investigation, a wide range of issues have been  considered  and we 
have received detailed comments and evidence  on these.  But, as also noted by Mr P, this 
complaint focuses on two particular  points.  Although some  of the issues that have been 
considered in this investigation relate  back to earlier  complaints,  Mr P says he wasnt  
previously aware Aviva  had made a commercial  decision to prevent any updated payments 
into this type of plan;  or that the terms and conditions said all payments  had to be made by 
monthly direct debit. Now that hes become aware of these points and raised them,  I think  
they are issues we can consider. 
Much of what has been discussed  isnt, in my judgment, relevant to this. And the issues  
concerning Plan B have been  resolved. So although I have considered everything carefully,  I 
am not able to revisit all the issues that have been  considered in previous complaints. I have 
summarised the key points in order to focus  on what needs to be decided in this complaint. 
And the crux of the matter is whether Aviva was entitled to regard Plan A as being paid up or 
 as Mr P says  it wasnt entitled to decide  not to accept payments in the plan and should 
now reinstate the pension  fully. 
The reason  Aviva decided that Plan A should  be paid up was because no payments  were 
being made into it. Mr P says that only happened because  Aviva wouldnt accept payments 
by direct debit, and thats in breach of the terms and conditions. He doesnt  think  he should 
lose out because  of Avivas own breach.
The relevant  documents  do say the monthly  payments  are to be made  by direct debit. So on 
the face of it, Aviva  is in breach of the terms and conditions. But, although  I have to take this 
into account, my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable taking into account all the 
circumstances 
In doing so, Ive considered the circumstances surrounding the payments being stopped. 
There was a period  when  efforts were  made  to pay by direct debits. Aviva  says that after a 
while Mr Ps financial adviser said they were  no longer going  to keep trying the direct debit. I 
appreciate Mr P disputes this, but Avivas  records include  notes of conversations  with his 
advisers about this. So I can see why Aviva  considered payments were  no longer going to 
be made by direct debit.  And I consider Mr Ps adviser, if not Mr P, would or should have 
appreciated the consequences of that policy not receiving further payments and being made 
paid up.
In addition, although Aviva says it couldnt  accept direct debit payments, it asked Mr P to pay 
by cheque and it was his decision not to do that. Even  where a business has made 
mistakes, I still need to consider whether the complainant has taken reasonable steps to 
keep their loss to a minimum.  And although the terms and conditions  said that payments had 
to be made  by direct debit, Aviva said they were prepared to accept cheque payments as a 
compromise.
I appreciate the difficulties  it would have caused  for Mr P to make payments by cheque   
and the frustration this would  have  caused. Mr P was being asked to do something 
problematic because of  as I understand it  an anomaly  in Avivas IT system. But in my 
view, it should  have been possible. Instead,  he chose not to make any further  payments. 
Hes explained his reasons for that. It was, however, his choice. And he could have 
complained about any loss or inconvenience  arising from paying by cheque at that time. 
Ref: DRN55832554summary
As a general principle,  where one party  has made a mistake but has suggested a means of 
resolution, that doesnt mean the other  party can simply  do nothing and allow the loss or 
harm to continue, if that could be avoided; they are expected to take steps  to minimise the 
harm. And although  there was some inconvenience  for Mr P, he could have taken steps  to 
do this. I dont think it was reasonable for him simply to refuse to make  any further payments 
 especially  in the knowledge  which he, or certainly  his adviser, would  have of the 
consequences for the policy.  And in circumstances  where no further payments were made  
when they could have been   I think on a fair and reasonable  basis, Aviva was able to treat 
the plan as paid up.
So, having  considered all the circumstances,  I dont think  Aviva needs to take further action.
For these reasons I said I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
developments
Aviva has not provided any further comments in reply to the provisional  decision but Mr P 
has  he doesnt  accept my conclusions and has explained why. His comments  are detailed  
but I will summarise  some  of the key points as follows:
Any references to IT issues are irrelevant;  Aviva made a policy decision to prevent 
new payments being made, and only this particular type of plan was affected. 
The main argument for rejecting his complaint seems to be that his adviser told Aviva  
he did not want to carry on making payments, but thats  not correct.  
He rejected Avivas  offer of compensation because it wasnt enough  to reflect  all the 
trouble caused  to him over 20 years of poor administration  - and our adjudicator  
agreed, suggesting a higher figure  (though that was still too low).
The value of the pension pot itself should  be increased to take account of the 
additional payments that he was prevented from paying between  September 2004 
and his retirement date in January  2017.
There were  delays  in starting his pension payments  these were due to start in 2017 
but he only received  the first payment in 2019  and this was due to Avivas  failure  to 
provide a correct  quotation. It only agreed  to pay a level pension, when it should  
increase by 3.6% each year. He should be compensated for the loss caused by the 
delay putting his pension into payment.
Before making my final decision I advised both parties that, having considered  Mr Ps 
comments about the delay providing  accurate quotations, I thought it would be fair for Aviva 
to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused by that, but I didnt think  it should  
compensate for any loss caused by the delay putting his pension into payment.  Aviva had no 
further comments on this but Mr P still considers  there  is a loss that should be compensated.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I am looking at the issue of whether Plan A should 
be reinstated. I havent reviewed all the past issues, as they have been considered 
previously, and I cant revisit complaints  that have already  been  dealt with or recommend 
further compensation in respect of these. 
Ref: DRN55832555I accept that, under  the terms and conditions  of the plan, payments should have been made 
by direct debit. But as I have explained, even where a business has made mistakes,  I still 
need to consider whether  the complainant has taken reasonable steps  to keep their loss to a 
minimum; where one party has made  a mistake,  that doesnt mean the other  party can do 
nothing and allow the loss to continue  if it can be avoided. Mr P has explained his reasons 
for choosing  not to make payments by cheque but it was, ultimately, his choice. It would 
have been possible  for him to make payments, which would have avoided the pension being 
paid up. 
With regard to any delay  putting the pension into payment, the same  principle applies  even 
if Aviva  made a mistake, that doesnt mean Mr P could take no action  and allow the loss or 
harm to continue, if that could be avoided. There is a duty to mitigate loss. I appreciate Mr P 
wanted to wait until he was satisfied he had received an accurate quotation. But that was his 
choice. There was nothing to stop him taking his pension before 2019; he had complained 
and if the pension was put into payment but was then found to be incorrect, any loss could 
have been addressed. 
Having said that, I do accept Mr P was upset by the issues with the quotations and put to 
some trouble  chasing this with Aviva. Having considered  all the circumstances relating to 
this, a compensation payment of £500  would be reasonable to acknowledge the trouble Mr P 
was put to during this time and the upset caused to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5583255