K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 1996.  Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-
sold her the PPI.
Mrs S took out the hire purchase agreement and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says that she doesnt  recall what happened at the time she took out the finance, but 
this is understandable  given how long ago it happened. So the first thing I need to consider 
is if FICL  gave her a choice in taking out the PPI. And having  done so, I think that it did. I say 
this because FICL has provided  a copy of Mrs Ss hire purchase agreement   and I can see 
that the policy is presented as optional, and has been selected. Mrs S has then signed  the 
application, agreeing to the information on it.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620258