K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage Mrs M used to hold with Bank of Scotland  plc 
trading as Birmingham  Midshires (BM). The mortgaged property was sold in possession,  
leaving a shortfall  that BM initially expected Mrs M to pay. After she instructed her solicitor to 
represent her, BM eventually conceded that she shouldnt  be held liable for the shortfall and 
wrote it off. Mrs M, who is represented  here by her Member of Parliament,  believes BM 
should now pay her legal  fees.
background
Mrs M had two complaints  to begin  with. The first was about BM seeking possession of the 
property in the first place,  but she referred  that complaint  to us later than the time limit 
allowed in our rules. The second complaint  this one  was brought  to us in time, and were 
able to look into it. Its about whether Mrs M should  be held liable for the shortfall  following 
the sale of the property  in possession.
Our case-handler didnt have  to consider whether  Mrs M was liable for the shortfall on sale.  
Thats because BM, having initially  said she was, changed its mind and agreed that she 
wasnt, albeit only after extensive  correspondence with Mrs Ms solicitors. The case-handler 
had to consider  whether BM should  meet Mrs Ms legal  bill. On balance,  he decided it 
shouldnt, on the basis that Mrs M could  have brought  her complaint to us, free of charge, 
first. The case-handler  recommended BM pay Mrs M £200 compensation for her time,  
trouble and upset.
Mrs M has asked  for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Mrs M has provided evidence of her financial difficulties and wider situation.  Im very sorry 
for her circumstances and I appreciate this has been a difficult time for her. I do understand 
that being reimbursed  for her legal fees would help Ms Ms financial situation.  But I can only 
do that if Im persuaded that incurring those costs was essential  to her resolving her dispute  
with BM, and that a similar outcome couldnt  have been achieved by other means. Having 
looked at everything, I dont find that to be the case.
One of the reasons Parliament created this service was to provide consumers with access  to 
a free dispute resolution service, so that they could pursue complaints without having to go 
to law first. Our involvement  doesnt prejudice consumers rights to pursue legal action 
afterwards if theyre not happy with the outcome  of a complaint  referred  to us.
Mrs M has said that when she consulted her Member of Parliament and solicitor, no mention 
was made  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service. I cant know,  or make any findings on, what  
passed between  Mrs M, her Member of Parliament and/or her solicitor. But Im satisfied BM 
reminded her of our existence  when  it issued its final responses on her complaints.  
Ref: DRN54474502It was Mrs Ms prerogative to engage  legal representation  to pursue her dispute first, and 
then to come  to us afterwards; but it was also her choice. That being so, I cant fairly 
conclude that BM should pay the cost of her doing so. It should,  however, pay her fair 
compensation for distress and inconvenience,  and in my view £200 is an appropriate  sum.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5447450