K820x#14complaint
Ms R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit 
card. She got the card from Barclays Bank  UK PLC in November 2002.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Ms R 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R said she doesnt remember being told the PPI was optional and she says didnt need 
cover like this.
Whilst I dont doubt  this is Ms Rs genuine recollection now,  these events are from over 16 
years ago and we now know she bought the PPI whilst applying, by post,  to have the new 
card. I was sent a copy of her application and I can see it gave what  appears  to be an 
obvious choice  to either have, or not have, the PPI. Ms R ticked the box to add the PPI 
policy and she signed the form too.
So I think its clear she consented  to the policy.
This was a postal application and so I think Ms R would have made her way through  the 
form without any intervention from Barclays. I also think she would have done this in her own 
time. So it wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt  therefore need to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for Ms R. The decision  about buying the cover and whether it was right 
for her was for Ms R to make. 
I can certainly see some ways in which the postal application form could have been set out 
more clearly, but overall this doesnt change  what I think.
I say this because  the evidence  does  tend to strongly show  she wanted this type of 
protection. I also think the application leaflet would have contained  some  brief information 
about the policy. Ms R was also eligible  for the cover  and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
Looking at the work she did, I agree  she may have had some  sickness  protection already. 
But this doesnt  necessarily mean  the cover wasnt of value to her. The PPI would have paid 
out 10% of her outstanding credit  card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. 
So I think this policy was of use and thats probably why Ms R agreed to have it. Im sorry  to 
disappoint her but Im not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN52966132my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5296613