K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc wont refund a cash  withdrawal  and two retail 
payments made from their account.  Mr and Mrs B say they did not make or authorise these 
payments.
what happened
Mr B was abroad on a holiday. On the evening of 6 October  2018  he made a genuine cash  
withdrawal using his joint account card. Then in the early hours  of 7 October 2018 his card 
was used for a further cash withdrawal and two retail  payments totalling £1,178.17.
In that time there were  several attempts to withdraw more cash and make further payments 
to the merchant, but these were declined, mostly because of there being insufficient  funds.  
There were also attempts  to use Mr Bs sole account card at the same locations,  but these 
too were declined due to insufficient funds. 
Around an hour after the disputed payments finished,  Mr B used his joint card to take a taxi.
In the morning, Mr B checked his online banking. Around two hours  later, he phoned 
Santander to dispute the transactions.  He confirmed he still had his cards with him, never  
noticed they were  missing, and didnt let anyone  else use them. He kept them  in a wallet in 
his coat. He said that the two cards  had different PINs, his PINs were not written down, and 
no one else knew what they were.
Mr B explained he was with close friends on a night out at a bar, and didnt recall using his 
card as he already  had sufficient cash with him. He did seem to recognise the retail 
merchant. He confirmed  he was there and used his card,  but didnt think  hed used it that 
much. There  may have  been some  confusion as Mr B was in a busy  location.
Santander held Mr and Mrs B liable for the payments. They  said Mr Bs genuine cards and 
PINs were used, and they couldnt  see how someone couldve learned both PINs without 
Mr Bs permission.  He hadnt  used  his sole account  card since  he left the UK, so no one 
couldve overlooked  him entering the PIN while abroad. And they felt Mr B had admitted  to 
making at least one of the payments when he reported them.
Mr and Mrs B came  to our service.  Our investigator looked into things independently,  and 
didnt uphold  the complaint. He could see why Mr B may have been confused when he 
reported the payments, but he also could  see why Santander thought Mr B had admitted to 
being at the merchant and making at least one of the payments now in dispute.
Our investigator explained that the genuine  cards were used, and not clones. He said it was 
very unlikely  that an unknown  person could  have taken  and replaced  Mr Bs cards  without 
him noticing, and he didnt  see why theyd give the cards back. And he didnt think  it was 
likely that someone Mr B knew did this without  his permission  either, as there  wasnt  a likely 
way they couldve  learned the PINs  for both cards. So he thought the most  likely explanation 
was that Mr B authorised the payments.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN57576742what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  trying to make  the payments 
used Mr Bs genuine cards, and the correct PINs (aside from one attempted payment that 
was declined due to an incorrect PIN entry).  This is not enough,  on its own, for Santander  to 
hold Mr and Mrs B liable.  So I also need  to think about whether the evidence  suggests that 
its most  likely Mr B consented to the withdrawals, or not.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for Santander to conclude  that Mr B authorised  the transactions.  Ill explain 
why.
As above, Im satisfied  that all the accepted  and declined payments used Mr Bs genuine 
cards. And Im satisfied that, aside from one of the declined payments, they used Mr Bs 
correct PINs.
Mr B said the two PINs  were different, he hadnt given them  to anyone,  and they werent 
written down. But then its difficult to see how someone learned both of them. Its extremely  
unlikely that they guessed  both PINs.
When the disputed  transactions started, it had been over six hours since  Mr B had last used 
his joint account  card. And its very unlikely that an unknown person overlooked him entering 
the PIN and then either followed him for over six hours, or stole  the card and waited so long 
to use it.
Further, Mr B hadnt used his sole account  card in the country at all. The last time hed 
entered that PIN was three days before, back in the UK. So I dont see a plausible  way that 
an unknown person couldve learned  Mr Bs sole account PIN without his permission.
It is possible for someone to have  taken Mr Bs wallet without him noticing. But he still had 
both cards when he reported the transactions. And it is very unlikely that after making the 
disputed payments, an unknown thief would go to the trouble of finding Mr B and risk getting 
caught in order  to give his wallet back.
So for those reasons, I do not see a likely way that an unknown person did this without 
Mr Bs permission.
Ive also considered whether someone known  to Mr B did this without his permission, such 
as the people he was on holiday with. But like our investigator, I dont see a likely way that 
they couldve learned the PINs for both cards, not least as Mr B hadnt even used his sole 
account card while  they were with him on holiday,  or for several days  before. They wouldve 
run into a similar problem as the unknown thief, in that there wasnt a likely way for them  to 
learn both PINs without  Mr Bs authority.
Ref: DRN57576743And while it is possible that someone close  to him couldve taken and replaced Mr Bs wallet 
on the night out, it still would  have  been difficult to do that without Mr Bs permission. They  
wouldve needed to either have his wallet for around an hour,  or to have repeatedly  stolen 
and replaced it, and to have used Mr Bs cards repeatedly, without him or any concerned  
friends noticing.
Ive also listened  to the phone call where  Mr B reported the transactions. He does appear to 
have recognised the merchant and said that he intended to make at least  one of the 
payments thats  now disputed. He later confirmed that he was at the merchant and that he 
used his card there, he just didnt think hed used it that many times.  Like our investigator,  
I accept it may be that Mr B was confused or had trouble hearing in the airport.  But it does 
indicate that Mr B intended to use this merchant.  And Ive not seen  any evidence that makes 
it seem  implausible or unlikely that Mr B couldve  authorised these payments or given 
someone else permission  to make them.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mr Bs genuine  cards and PINs were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way that someone  did this without Mr Bs permission, whether 
they were known to him or unknown. That leaves only one plausible possibility  which  is 
that Mr B made the transactions or gave someone  else permission to make them.  This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr and Mrs B to 
receive. But given  the evidence I have,  and the balance of probabilities,  Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its fair for Santander to refuse a refund in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757674