K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with issues  following repairs done to her home by Allianz Insurance  Plc in 
respect of a home  insurance claim for theft following  a burglary.
background
In August  2018  Miss M made a claim to Allianz  following  a burglary at her home when a 
large amount of jewellery and other items were stolen. Allianz appointed loss adjusters to 
inspect the property and agree a list of the items stolen. Miss M had issues with validating  
the claim,  but she has now accepted  a full settlement in respect of the items stolen. She has 
confirmed that she is satisfied with this. 
The front door and garage door were damaged and contractors were  appointed to replace 
damaged doors and locks. Miss M was dissatisfied with the quality of the repairs. 
Additionally she said that the contractors had used her hallway and garage floor as a 
workshop causing  mess in the house and damage to the floor and a freezer.  The contractors 
fitted the doors badly, causing  damage  to the frame and the door surround.  It was agreed 
that the doors and frame would be refitted  and the necessary repairs  done.
The contractors denied  liability  for the floor. They also said Miss M couldnt prove or disprove 
the damage wasnt there before.  For the freezer the contractors said that they would look  at 
a gesture of goodwil l. Allianz had an independent  floor contractor look at the flooring. Whilst 
they found scratches to the floor they thought these were likely due to a heavy object being  
dragged across the floor. They couldnt say the damage was caused by the contractors. In 
respect of the freezer I understand  that Miss M has been offered £200  which  she is unhappy 
with.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that she couldnt say Allianz  was responsible  
for the damage  to the floor. But she noted that the doors hadnt  been repaired so she 
proposed that Allianz arrange  to carry this out. She further proposed that Allianz  pay £250 
compensation. Allianz agreed to the compensation proposed and made arrangements  to 
repair the doors and frame etc. I understand that those repairs  were finally done by 
November 2019.
Miss M didnt agree  she said the independent  report clearly identified  scratches  to the floor 
which had made  it beyond economical repair. The contractors had still failed to deal with her 
freezer but had offered  £200 ex gratia payment which she didnt believe was enough.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss M is satisfied  with the settlement of her claim  I shall deal just with the actions of the 
contractors who repaired the doors.  Though, as Allianz is the insurer it has the overall 
responsibility for how the claim  was run, and the repairs  carried  out.
Ref: DRN59206212doors
Miss M complains about the repairs to the doors  which  were  carried out poorly. She also 
says that the contractors  used the hallway and garage floor as a workshop  without  putting  
dustsheets down. This caused a mess which she had to clear up. Ill deal with the damage to 
the floor and freezer below. But I agree that carrying out work in that way was unacceptable.  
I understand the necessary repairs to the doors have been carried  out after the initial  repairs  
were done  so badly.  This took a long time, not being finalised until November 2019. Our 
investigator proposed  that because of the poor repairs  and the long delay in addressing 
them, Allianz should pay compensation of £250,  which it agreed to. I think that is a fair and 
reasonable way of addressing the issues over the way the repairs  were  carried out, and the 
long delay in remedying them. I understand that Miss M feels she should be awarded more 
but the award here is in line with awards we have  made in similar cases.
flooring
Miss M says the flooring  was damaged  by the contractors when they carried  out work 
indoors, including sawing wood without  a workbench. Allianz appointed an independent 
flooring contractor to review the damage. Her report concluded:
There was evident damage to the top surface of the laminate vinyl floor in the hall area.
There are several visible scratches in another area which she considers have been  
caused due to normal wear and tear.
She noticed a larger gouge  in the floor in another unrelated  claims area far more than 
the damage being reportedly caused by the building contractors. It appears to be 
consistent with something heavy being dragged across the floor and also rendered  the 
floor unrestorable.
She concluded that she was unable to be absolutely  certain  that the reported damage in 
relation to the claim was or not caused  by the said contractors.
From my review of the report (which contains photos) it does appear that there were 
scratches in the floor but these  appear to be curved  in two parallel lines so difficult to 
reconcile with Miss Ms assertion that the contractors damaged it by sawing without a 
workbench. The deep gouge does appear  to me to be consistent with a heavy object being 
dragged across the floor. Ive seen no evidence that the contractor would have needed  to 
drag a heavy object  across the floor so its difficult to square  that with the work  contractors  
were doing  to the house.
As I cant  say whether  the damage was likely to have been there before, the contractors 
deny having caused the damage and the report is inconclusive, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect  Allianz to pay for repairs to the floor.  I understand that, due to a 
misunderstanding, Allianz said it would arrange  for the repair  of the flooring. But in fact its 
not prepared to do that. And whilst I understand the frustration this will cause, I cant, on the 
evidence I have seen,  find Allianz  liable to repair the floor.
Ref: DRN59206213freezer 
The freezer  apparently has been  scratched and Miss M says the contractors are at fault.  
Again its not possible to say that the contractors are responsible for this, or whether the 
damage was there before.  I note though  that the contractors proposed a goodwill gesture 
and have offered  Ms W £200. If the contractors had damaged the freezer by scratching it the 
most they could be expected to do would  be to repair the damage so it appears  to me that 
an offer of £200  would  be reasonable.
However as I cant say the contractors are responsible for the damage,  I dont think  it would 
be reasonable to expect  Allianz to pay for this. If the contractors are still prepared to make a 
payment as a goodwill gesture I would suggest that Ms W gets in touch with them  directly.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Allianz  Insurance Plc to: pay Miss M £250 
compensation. If it has already paid this it need not make any further  payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5920621