K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that after British  Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  repaired a radiator valve  
under her home emergency  insurance  policy her house water supply became noisy.  BGI 
refused to rectify this and has now cancelled her insurance policy  and an associated 5 year 
boiler repair warranty.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 October 2019, a copy of which  is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
BGI said it had nothing further  to add. Mrs C said she still disputed the service managers 
version of how she spoke to him on his visit to her house. And she didnt  think it right that the 
5 year warranty should be taken away. However she said she would accept  the suggested 
compensation of £100.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs C nor BGI has provided any fresh information or evidence in response  to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier  conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order British Gas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mrs C compensation of £100  for the distress and inconvenience it caused her in dealing  
with the complaint under her home  emergency  policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 8 OCTOBER 2019
Ref: DRN56998512complaint
Mrs C complains that after British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  repaired a radiator valve under her 
home emergency insurance policy her house  water supply became noisy. BGI refused  to rectify  this 
and has now cancelled her insurance policy and an associated 5 year boiler repair warranty.
background
Mrs C had a home emergency insurance policy with BGI covering her central heating system. At the 
end of 2018 she called  on BGI under the policy  to attend to a leaking radiator valve in her bathroom. 
She says that after BGIs  engineer had replaced  this, her domestic  water system became  noisy when  
she ran taps downstairs or switched the shower on. 
Another BGI engineer said the noise was water hammer, which was a plumbing issue and wouldnt 
have been caused by the work done in changing the radiator valve. Mrs Cs policy didnt cover 
plumbing issues so BGI said it wouldnt  investigate the issue under the policy.
Mrs C complained to BGI. She remained  convinced BGIs engineer  had done something to cause the 
noise. She had difficulty raising a complaint on the phone and was kept on the line for long periods on 
several calls.
Eventually a service manager attended her house. He said that when  Mrs C ran the hot water  tap the 
only noise was the cold water tank filling in the loft, which  was completely  normal. He didnt detect any 
sound of water hammer.
It appears that the conversation between the service  manager and Mrs C became heated. 
Unbeknown to the service manager, Mrs C had previously complained about the conduct  of one of 
BGIs engineers. She complained in general  terms about the service provided  by BGIs engineers and 
said they were all perverts.
The service engineer told Mrs C that it seemed BGI would be unable to meet  her expectations and 
that her comments about its engineers were unacceptable.  So her insurance policy and boiler 
warranty would be cancelled. BGI wrote to her in February 2019 confirming this decision, and 
returned the credit on her policy account.
It said it was entitled to take this decision  under the following provision of her policy:
Working in dangerous or unsafe conditions
We wont start or continue  doing any work in your home if we believe theres  a health and safety risk, 
for example:  hazardous chemicals, pest infestations, verbal or physical abuse, or harassment.  And 
we wont return to finish  the work until that risk is gone.
Mrs C complained to us about the noise  she blamed BGI for, its cancellation of her policy  and 
warranty, and poor customer service when she complained  to BGI.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She had asked  BGI to 
provide recordings of all the phone calls between BGI and Mrs C. It had provided some of these, 
which she had listened  to.
These showed Mrs C becoming increasingly frustrated and upset at having  to explain her concerns to 
different people,  and not getting the call backs she was promised. She was put on hold for lengthy 
periods, and some  calls were cut off.
The investigator said she could understand Mrs Cs frustration, and at times anger, when dealing with 
BGI. But the recordings  also showed Mrs C speaking  to different agents  in a tone, and using  certain  
Ref: DRN56998513phrases, that supported the service managers  testimony about what  happened when  he came to her 
house.
In the recordings, Mrs C makes many  generalised  and disparaging comments  about  BGI and its 
employees, including a reference to a pervert engineer  and to them  being  rude and ignorant. So 
she thought it was most likely that when the service  manager came to her house,  Mrs C spoke to him 
in the same manner.
That being so, she could understand why the service  manager took offence, and took the action he 
did in recommending  her policy and warranty be cancelled. She thought Mrs C contributed to the 
breakdown of her relationship with BGI by the way she spoke  to its employees. But BGI contributed to 
this by the poor customer service it provided to Mrs C.
The investigator recommended  that BGI pay Mrs C compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset it 
had caused her. She also said that if Mrs C could provide  an experts  report on the outstanding  repair, 
and BGI agreed it would have been  covered under the policy, BGI should reimburse  Mrs C for the 
cost of this repair.
Mrs C accepted the investigators recommendation, though she did think it was unfair that BGI could 
take away  a 5 year warranty which came with the boiler  she bought.
BGI said it would pay the £100 compensation which the investigator had recommended. However  it 
said the investigator agreed it was justified in cancelling  Mrs Cs policy. So following  cancellation,   
Mrs C no longer had the benefit of the policy and so the repair wasnt covered by it.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs C says the noise in her hot water system wasnt present before BGI changed the radiator valve;  
so BGI must have caused it. BGI says the hot water system and the central heating radiators  are 
separate, so any issue with the hot water  cant have  been  caused by BGI. Its service  manager  also 
couldnt hear any unusual noise when he visited  Mrs Cs house.
Ive listened to the call recordings that BGI supplied. From these,  and the log of events that Mrs C 
provided, its clear that BGI provided  poor customer service  when Mrs C raised her complaint. 
Individual BGI employees did try to assist her but BGIs system seems to have been disjointed. I can 
understand that Mrs C became increasingly frustrated  and angry. So I think  its reasonable that BGI 
pays Mrs C compensation  of £100 for its poor customer service.
However I accept the service managers  evidence  about the way Mrs C spoke to him when he visited. 
In view of this, I cant say it was unreasonable  for BGI to cancel her policy. 
It appears that when Mrs C bought her boiler from an associated company of BGI a few years  ago it 
came with a 5 year warranty  from this associated company. The continuation of the warranty was 
mentioned in the renewal letter for the policy that BGI sent Mrs C on 21 September  2018.
Although the warranty was provided by an associated company of BGI, and its likely  the same 
engineers would carry out work under it, it isnt part of Mrs Cs home  emergency  policy, and so isnt 
within our jurisdiction to consider or comment on.
It follows that I cant comment  in this decision  on whether  it was reasonable for the 5 year warranty to 
be cancelled in the circumstances  that have happened.  Mrs C would  have to take this up separately 
with the particular company that sold her the boiler and its warranty.
Ref: DRN56998514Its not clear whether there is an issue  with Mrs Cs hot water  system and, if there is, whether anything 
BGIs engineers did in the course  of changing  the radiator  valve caused this. The fact that a problem  
arose at the same time as the valve was changed isnt evidence in itself.
For Mrs C to take this issue further with BGI she would need to obtain  a written report from a suitably 
qualified plumber or heating engineer which:
confirmed there was a problem and explained  clearly what it was; and
said that in their professional opinion it was caused by the work BGI carried out when 
changing the radiator valve.
BGI would then need to have the opportunity to consider this report with its own engineers  and decide 
whether or not it agreed with it and was willing to reimburse the cost of putting  right the problem. If 
Mrs C didnt think BGI had acted reasonably in coming to this decision,  it would be open  to her to 
bring a further  complaint  to this service.
I would point  out to BGI that in such circumstances  Mrs C is complaining about the way that BGI 
carried out work replacing the valve under the policy, and at a time it was in force. So the fact that the 
policy has since been cancelled wouldnt be relevant.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs C or from BGI by 22 October 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to 
order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C compensation of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused  her in dealing  with the complaint under her home emergency policy.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5699851