K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  about HSBC UK Bank Plcs  refusal to give her a full refund.
background
Miss J used  her credit card issued by HSBC to pay, in part, when booking  a hotel room for a 
family holiday. She booked the hotel  room via a third-party company who I will call A. It 
promised to book  a quadruple room for her with the hotel of her choice. But when  she got to 
the hotel she found that the hotel had no quadruple rooms  and would never have been able 
to offer her one. Instead she had to share  a double room with three other family members. 
Miss J told us that HSBC  had refunded  her for the amount she paid A using her HSBC  credit 
card. But HSBC refuses to refund her for the full cost of the room. Miss J told us she relies  
on the rights  she believes  she has under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
HSBC said Miss J made a credit  card payment to A, but her contract was with a third party 
who I will call H. It said this because it was H not A who supplied  the hotel room.   It pointed 
out that in order  to have a valid claim under Section 75 a very specific  relationship would 
need to be in place between her, it and A, this is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier  
relationship. HSBC said that as the supplier  here was H, there was no relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship. On this basis it declined her claim. 
Further HSBC explained it had been able to get back the money she paid to A using her 
HSBC credit card, via a process  known as chargeback. But the balance of the money had 
been paid using a credit card provided  by a third-party financial business, who I will call T 
rather than it. Only T could have initiated  a chargeback for this money. That meant it, HSBC 
could not use the chargeback route to get her back the rest of her money.
Miss J was dissatisfied with HSBCs response and came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Js complaint. He recommended upholding the complaint in 
part. He came to this recommendation because he looked very carefully at the arrangements  
between A and Miss J. He concluded  there was a contract between A and Miss J, under 
which A agreed to book  a quadruple room for her with H. However,  it did not do this and 
could never  have done this because the hotel  she stayed  at had never had any quadruple 
rooms. On this basis, our investigator said there  had been  a misrepresentation and a breach 
of contract. 
Our investigator then looked at what would be fair and reasonable in terms of redress. He 
thought Miss J had got some of what  she had paid for therefore, she couldnt  reasonably  get 
back the whole amount  she paid for the room. But she could get some of it to reflect  the 
difference between  a quadruple room and a double room with four beds  seemingly crammed  
into it. He also acknowledged  that Miss J likely  had a loss of enjoyment  of her holiday due to 
getting an inferior room  to the one she paid for. He suggested that HSBC ought  to give Miss 
J the following  redress:
1. Refund back  20% of the of the balance Miss J paid for the room. That is refund 20% of 
£1,298.96.
2. Pay £150 compensation to Miss J for the distress and inconvenience  this
whole situation  has caused her.
Ref: DRN52920622Miss J rejected our investigators recommendation. In short,  she thought  she was entitled  to 
all of her money back.
HSBC also rejected our investigators recommendation. In summary, it thought we were 
upholding without  any proper basis  because  it didnt agree there was a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship here. 
Further, HSBC thought A had made  it part of the contract that it didnt take responsibility for 
any mistakes  it made. It said because A had put this into the contract there  had been no 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  in any event. Or if there had been  A excluded liability 
for this. It pointed out that Miss J had paid the balance using finance from T.  It questioned 
whether T had done a chargeback and refunded Miss J already.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Js complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Miss J pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.
some preliminary points Id like to clear  up
I need to mention some initial points. Miss Js understanding  of Section 75 seems to be that 
it automatically entitles her to claim back all of her money from the credit card provider. It 
does not. Rather  it gives her a remedy if there has been  a misrepresentation or a breach  of 
contract. But that remedy does not necessarily  have to be a full refund.
Miss J has also talked  about how from her perspective HSBC refunded her based  on her 
rights under Section 75. She suggests if it could refund the money she paid to A with her 
HSBC credit card using this provision  then it can refund the rest of the money.  The difficulty  
here is that this refund  came from a process  known  as chargeback.  
Ref: DRN52920623Chargeback is a process which  allows  customers  to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there is a problem with goods or services  that they have paid for.  But Miss J has no legal 
rights to a chargeback.  Moreover, chargeback is a completely  separate  issue from her rights 
under Section 75. In other words, the successful chargeback refund  throws no light at all on 
whether she is entitled to a further  refund based  on relevant law including Section 75.
Further, HSBC can only carry out a chargeback for money that was spent on the credit card 
it issued. The balance  of the money  that Miss J is asking for came  from a credit provided  by 
T. HSBC has no right to initiate a chargeback  for this money. So, HSBC has already  done as 
much as it could under  the chargeback process.  
I accept that HSBC is entitled to ask and receive  reassurance about what  other  refunds  
Miss J may have had. I say this because if she had already  had a refund of the balance from 
T, it would not be fair and reasonable for me to also ask HSBC to make  a payment to her. As 
she would  be recovering the same money twice. This is why we have specifically asked 
Miss J about  this point,  and she has told us she got no refund from T.
what contract do I think is relevant here?
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss J has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier she can also bring that claim against HSBC  provided certain  
conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there  must be a very specific relationship  in place  that is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. 
I think all along Miss J and HSBC have been talking at cross  purposes on this point. I say 
this because from the get-go Miss J was talking  about the contract  she had with A, who 
acted as an agent and told her that it was going to book a quadruple room. However, HSBC 
references the separate contract that she also had with the supplier of the room. 
HSBC is correct to say there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier  relationship  between  Miss J 
and the supplier of the hotel room, she never said there was. That said,  there  was a contract 
between Miss J and A that is why there were contractual terms put on As website and why it 
charged her a fee for providing its services to her.
On that basis, there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between Miss J the 
debtor, HSBC the creditor and A the supplier of booking services. I think therefore it is fair 
and reasonable to look at this contract and what happened when Miss J made  her booking.
what was Miss J told when she was making  her booking via A?
The next point  is was there  any misrepresentation made by A? That is a false  statement of 
fact that Miss J relied  on to her detriment.
Miss J tells us when she asked A to make  the hotel booking for her it offered both quadruple 
and double rooms.  She says there  was an additional cost for the quadruple rooms.  I have no 
reason to doubt what she says about  this price difference. 
Further, all the parties seem to agree that the hotel didnt ever have a quadruple room. So, A 
was offering to book  something for Miss J, which did not exist.
Ref: DRN52920624HSBC appears to be saying that there  was no misrepresentation  not because  what  Miss J 
was told was correct.  Rather,  it is saying  there  was no misrepresentation because A does 
not accept any misrepresentation can ever exist and in any event it excluded any liability for 
any misrepresentations. It suggests  this was the effect of the booking terms and conditions.   
I dont read As terms and conditions like that.  Im  not sure on what basis  HSBC  believes 
this is possible,  it has not said. But in any event,  even  if I accepted  HSBCs position,  which  I 
dont, I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable that A should not be held to account  for a 
misrepresentation merely  because it says it doesnt want to be held to account if it misleads 
its customer.
For all of these reasons, Im satisfied  Miss J was given incorrect information that she relied 
on to her detriment. I am also satisfied  that it is fair and reasonable that HSBC  should be 
responsible for this.
I think a fair and reasonable remedy here would have been to give Miss J the difference 
between what the quadruple  room cost and what the double room cost.  I say this because  I 
think she was always intending  to book a quadruple room. And if she had known H did not 
have one she would have asked A to book one elsewhere. But I dont appear to have  that 
information. 
I dont agree with Miss J that she should  get back the entire  cost of the room. That would not 
be fair and reasonable - that would wrongly  imply that no service at all had been received. 
When she did indeed get a room which she reluctantly accepted.  Although I take on board it 
was not the room she was led to believe she was going to get.
There is no prefect formula for working out a refund  here, but I do find it is fair and 
reasonable that Miss J should get back a portion of what she paid. I discuss this further  
below. And I think that is fair and reasonable that HSBC should be responsible  for this.
what did Miss J pay for?
I also think that A contracted with Miss J to book her a quadruple room  and it did not. I 
realise HSBC suggests that under the terms and conditions, A again  excluded liability for 
making a mistake about the booking. So even if there was a breach, Miss J has no remedy.  
But again,  I dont  read the contract like that. 
Also, I think such a contractual term would be so unusual  and would cause the consumer 
such detriment that it would have needed  to be brought to Miss Js attention specifically 
before she entered the contract. It was not. So even  if I accepted HSBCs stance on this 
point, which  I do not, Id still say it was not fair and reasonable  that A be able to rely on this 
contractual term.
I think as a result of all of this Miss J was put into a far less comfortable room  than the one 
she contracted for and her enjoyment  of her holiday was marred to some  extent as a result.
For these reasons, I think HSBC must fairly and reasonably take responsibility  for what  went 
wrong. Miss J has already received a refund of £148.73. It is the balance  of £1,298.96 that is 
in question. Working  out the amount of a fair and reasonable refund isnt an exact  science in 
this instance,  and as I have  already mentioned. I dont know  what  the difference  in price was 
between the quadruple  room and the double one. But taking everything into account I think a 
refund of 20% of the balance is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN52920625It is unfortunate that Miss J and HSBC  were at cross purposes to some  extent.  I think Miss J 
did set out her position clearly. I also think this led to a lot of avoidable to and fro that most 
likely caused  Miss J distress and inconvenience. I find that £150 is a fair and reasonable 
award for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Miss J:
20% of the balance  of £1,298.96.
£150 for distress  and inconvenience.
HSBC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Miss J 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss J can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss J should refer back to HSBC  if she is unsure  of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact  HM Revenue & Customs  if they want  to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5292062