K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed money to be withdrawn from his 
account without  his authorisation.
background
Mr M says his final salary of £859.61 was paid into his bank account on 27 November 2015.  
But the same day two withdrawals were  made  without his authority which  made his account  
overdrawn. He wasnt in a position to make those withdrawals. So he wants  Barclays  to 
refund him the money.
Barclays says one of the withdrawals  for £300 was from a cash  machine  (ATM) and the 
other for £535  at an assisted service  device (ASD). In each case the person making  the 
withdrawals had to have had access to Mr Ms debit card and PIN. So it said it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Our investigator could  see the person making  the withdrawals used Mr Ms debit card and 
his PIN. Mr M said he hadnt  given  anyone his PIN. And he gave his mother his debit card 
when he was in a position not to be able to use it. But he told us she wouldnt have accessed 
his account. Our investigator also noted that the withdrawals were made on the same  day Mr 
M was paid which  seemed to indicate  someone  knew when the money  would be in his 
account. So he didnt  think  Barclays was being unreasonable when it wouldnt refund Mr M 
the money.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He said he didnt give anyone permission to withdraw the 
money. He said his mother had been  very ill for years and people come  and go from the 
house all the time. So he thought anyone  couldve  seen him use his card and made a note 
of the PIN. And he thought it wasnt difficult to know when someone was getting  paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
Its not in dispute  that £835  was removed from Mr Ms bank account on the same  day his 
final salary was paid into it. And the money was withdrawn by someone  who had Mr Ms 
debit card and PIN. And it doesnt appear  that he was in a position to have withdrawn the 
money himself. 
Mr M says hes been very careful  with the security of his account over the years but in his 
response to our investigator he put forward an explanation for how someone  might have had 
access to his PIN. And he said his family knew each others pay day.
In situations such  as this where there  is conflicting  evidence I have to make  a decision 
based on a balance of probabilities. In other words what I think  is most likely to have 
happened. Mr M says someone couldve seen him use his PIN and made  a note of it. And 
he said his family would know when he was getting paid. But this doesnt explain how the 
same person  wouldve had his debit card, his PIN, knew when he would be paid his final 
salary and approximately how much it was going to be. So I think its unlikely that someone 
wouldve been able to make those two withdrawals without Mr Ms permission.
Ref: DRN52304982In those circumstances I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays wouldnt refund Mr M the 
two withdrawals on his account. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5230498