K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B was sold a PPI policy in connection with a credit card he took out in June 1996. Lloyds 
cant confirm when  the PPI was sold but it would have been  either  when the card was taken  
out or in between  that time and January 2000. 
The policy would have cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance  
and would have  paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance  if Mr B was off work sick or 
lost his job for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate Mr B will be 
disappointed by this outcome. However, it is of course for him to decide whether to accept or 
reject my decision. I will now explain  why Ive reached this outcome.
Based on the information provided by Mr B, I havent seen anything  to indicate he wouldnt 
have been eligible for the PPI.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr B that the PPI was optional  and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Mr B is adamant he did not agree to take PPI. He says he 
was never  told that PPI was attached as, if he had been told, he would have rejected it.
Given the length of time since the sale, its understandable that Lloyds no longer have a 
copy of Mr Bs PPI application form. However,  I have seen other application forms from 
around the time of the sale where  the optional nature was set out clearly  and PPI wouldnt 
have been applied to the account unless it had been specifically requested.
So what  this means  is that, while I appreciate what Mr B has told us, I dont have  sufficient 
evidence to be able to conclude that its more likely that Lloyds didnt make it clear to Mr B 
that the policy was optional  and that Mr B didnt agree to take it out.
Lloyds cant confirm how the policy was sold. So to be fair to Mr B they have treated this as 
an advised sale. This means that Lloyds would have had to take adequate steps to ensure  
the PPI was suitable for Mr B. They  wouldnt have  needed to do this if they treated it as a 
non-advised sale.  Based on the information  I have, I think  the PPI was suitable for Mr B. I 
say this because:
Ref: DRN58331622-Mr B has told us he wasnt entitled  to pay from him employer  if he was off work sick. 
So the PPI would have been  suitable for him because Mr Bs payments would have  
been covered  for up to 12 months  when Mr B was without  income  to cover the 
repayments. Even if Mr B had been entitled to some sick pay, the PPI would have  
paid out in addition to this and would also have paid out in addition  to any 
redundancy pay Mr B may have been  entitled to. 
-Mr B has explained that he was living  with a partner who had an extremely  good  job 
and parents who had money. However, the credit card was in Mr Bs name  alone  and 
ultimately only he was responsible for meeting the repayments. As circumstances 
change, it could not be guaranteed  that Mr Bs partner/parents would have  been  in a 
position to help Mr B if/when the need arose.
-Mr B didnt  appear to have been  affected  by the main restrictions  and exclusions in 
the policy such that it wouldve been difficult for him to make a successful claim 
under the policy.  For example, those relating to certain medical conditions  and 
working arrangements. 
-I havent seen  anything which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable to Mr B. 
-Mr B couldve cancelled  the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable  for Mr B, Lloyds  also had to give Mr B clear 
enough information so that he could decide for himself if the PPI was right for him. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. This in itself 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put Mr B off taking the PPI out.
And I dont  think better information wouldve put Mr B off taking the PPI out. I say this for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was right for him.
So I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold Mr B this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58331623
Ref: DRN5833162