K820x#14complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy  because BUPA Insurance Limited  refused  to cover her claim for a 
caesarean section under a group private  medical  insurance policy.  
Background
Mrs Z held private medical insurance through her husbands employers  group  scheme.  She 
made a claim last year after undergoing an emergency caesarean section (C-section). But 
BUPA declined the claim saying the circumstances  didnt meet the terms of the policy cover. 
Mrs Z brought a complaint  to this service after BUPA  refused  to change its stance. But our 
investigator didnt, ultimately, think BUPA had done anything wrong in declining the claim. 
Mrs Z didnt  agree, so the complaint has come to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I know  this will 
comes as a considerable disappointment to Mrs Z and her husband, I dont think  BUPA did 
anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
In order to decide whether it was reasonable for BUPA to decline the claim Ive started off by 
looking at the policy terms and conditions. And, with regards to pregnancy and childbirth 
they say:
We do not pay for treatment for:
pregnancy, including treatment of an embryo or foetus
childbirth and delivery of a baby
termination of pregnancy,  or any condition arising from termination of pregnancy.
Exception 2: We may pay for the delivery of a baby by caesarean section only when the 
life of the member  (mother) is in immediate danger  or would be put at direct  risk by vaginal 
delivery. However, we need full clinical details from your consultant before we can give our 
decision.
In my experience, its not unusual for private medical insurance policies to exclude cover  for 
treatment relating to pregnancy and childbirth. Thats  because, as the investigator pointed  
out, this type of policy is generally intended to cover the cost of treatment if and when the 
policyholder falls ill unexpectedly. And pregnancy and childbirth are not illnesses. But, as set 
out above, the policy Mrs Z has with BUPA does cover some  situations relating to pregnancy 
and childbirth.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Z was advised to have the C-section for medical reasons. Her 
treating consultant confirmed it was a category 2 emergency because there was no progress 
in labour due to the fetus being in the back to back position. And attempts  to move the 
labour along by administering Syntocinon  had adversely affected the fetal heart rate. The 
consultant also said that if an obstructive labour was not acted on then it would result  in 
maternal and fetal mortality. 
Ref: DRN56942742So I can understand why, in Mrs Zs case, a C-section was recommended.  But at that time it 
was classed as category  2, which is the definition used when  there is a maternal or fetal 
compromise which is not immediately life-threatening. I understand Mrs Zs situation  may 
have worsened  if the C-section had been  delayed. But, at the point it was performed it was 
still category 1 and there was seemingly no immediate danger to Mrs Zs life. 
This means  the policy  terms and conditions werent met and I dont think BUPA  unfairly or 
unreasonably declined the claim.
other matters
Mrs Z made a couple of points on response to the investigators assessment which BUPA  
hadnt previously  commented upon.  But the investigator addressed those concerns and it 
feels right,  in this particular case,  that I do too.
Mrs Z says BUPA misled  her husband about how many nights the policy  would cover her to 
stay in the hospital. He was told four nights, so she stayed that long when she couldve been  
discharged after only three nights. So she says she incurred higher costs  than she wouldve 
if BUPA hadnt misled  her. But Ive seen nothing which  indicates  BUPA  said the C-section  
would definitely  be covered or that confirms Mrs Z couldve been discharged  after only three 
nights. So I wouldnt be fair to tell BUPA to cover  the costs shes claimed.
Mrs Z also says the policy terms about pregnancy and childbirth are unclear and unfair. But 
BUPA is entitled to place limits on the cover it will provide  and the terms of that cover were  
agreed between  BUPA and Mrs Zs husbands  employer. And I think  the policy sets out 
sufficiently clearly that BUPA wont cover all situations when a C-section is carried out.
It also seems  unlikely  to me that the decision  to join the policy and add Mrs Z was made  with 
specific reference to the pregnancy and childbirth  section of the policy or to obtain  the limited  
cover afforded. Or that theyd have decided not to self-fund the birth at a private facility  if 
theyd have better understood in what circumstances a C-section  would, or would not, be 
covered. So I dont think Mrs Zs comments in this respect changes  anything.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5694274