K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  wont refund 
transactions he says he didnt make or otherwise  authorise.
what happened
In June 2018, Mr M opened  an account  with Halifax, but didnt use it.
In January 2019, Mr M received  batches  of cash payments  into his account.  Within a day of 
each batch, they were  used to fund online gambling  payments, totalling  £3,000.
A few hours after the last gambling transaction, Mr M reported them to Halifax, saying they 
were unauthorised.  He said hed just checked his balance to see if his cash  payments had 
come in, and had noticed the pending  online payments.
Mr M explained that he kept his card on him, or in a secure cupboard at home. He lived with 
his partner and small children, and neither he nor his partner ever gamble. Hed never lost 
the card, had never made  a payment with it, and no one else had access to it or the security 
details. Hed never  entered the card details into anything other than his PayPal account.  
Hed not signed up for any online  services  or trials that mightve used his details, nor had he 
received any calls, texts,  or emails asking him for them. No one else knew he would be 
receiving the cash payments other  than the payer, who made  them using his account  details 
and didnt have  any of the card details. At different points,  Mr M said the cash  he received 
was either  from his business  selling childrens toys, or a friend whod borrowed money from 
him, or a job lot of mobile phone accessories.
Halifax held Mr M liable for the payments  in dispute.  They couldnt see a likely way that 
someone got Mr Ms card details without his permission. And they felt it was very unlikely 
that someone happened to gain access to his account on the first day he paid into it. They 
said Mr M checked his online banking after the first gambling payment, but didnt report  that 
anything was wrong until after the last one.
Mr M came to our service.  Our investigator looked  into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said there didnt seem to be a plausible way someone  learned 
Mr Ms card details  without his consent, nor a likely way that an unknown thief wouldve 
known the money  was coming in. She noted that Mr Ms testimony about the cash  he got 
was contradictory.  And she pointed out that the person using  the account did not spend as 
much as they could  have,  nor as quickly as they could have. So she thought it was most  
likely that the payments  were authorised.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said hed never  used that merchant before. He felt Halifaxs security 
systems shouldve warned him about the payments. The complaints been  passed to me to 
decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ref: DRN53042412Broadly, Halifax can hold Mr M liable  for the payments in dispute if he authorised them  or 
gave someone else permission to make  them.
Im satisfied from Halifaxs technical  evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ms 
genuine card details. This is not enough,  on its own, for Halifax to hold Mr M liable. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr M consented to 
the transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable to conclude  that Mr M consented to the payments  Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered whether an unknown party might have made the disputed payments.
Mr M had never used this card before. So there  was no opportunity  for anyone to have 
observed him using  it or to have  taken his details from another payment. He kept it securely, 
never lost it, and still had the card when he reported  the payments, so its unlikely anyone 
took it from him. He hadnt given anyone else access to the card or the details, nor had he 
entered them anywhere other than to link the card with his PayPal account. So theres no 
likely way that someone learned  the card details  without  Mr Ms permission.
Mr M opened this account about seven months  before he first paid anything into it. He said 
no one knew he was going to receive the money  apart from himself  and the person paying  
him. Yet the gambling payments were  relatively large and used up the vast majority of the 
cash deposits. And they were made in the evening after each set of cash  deposits.  So it 
looks like the person who made the disputed transactions  knew  exactly  how much Mr M 
would be receiving and when. And it seems very unlikely that Mr Ms account  happened to 
be defrauded on the very first day he put money into it.
So I dont  see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
Ive also thought about whether someone known to Mr M may have made the transactions 
without his permission.  But I dont think thats likely either.
The only other person  who knew Mr M was receiving  the money was the payer. But the 
payer only had Mr Ms account details  in order to deposit the cash. Mr M confirmed that he 
didnt give them any card details. And as I explained  above, I dont see a likely way that 
someone couldve learned those card details without Mr Ms permission.
Its possible that someone Mr M lived with couldve accessed the cupboard where he 
sometimes kept the card. But his children were  only small, and understandably  Mr M has 
also ruled out his partner   not least as they dont gamble.
So there doesnt seem to be a likely person  who Mr M knew  who couldve made the 
payments without his consent.
Mr M confirmed that it was him who logged into his online  banking  after the first disputed 
payment. So if that payment was unauthorised, it seems strange  that Mr M didnt report it at 
the time  though I accept  its possible that he simply didnt notice it then.
Ref: DRN53042413Ive gone through Mr Ms correspondence and the records of his calls. At different points, 
hes said the cash he received was for rather different things. This makes it difficult for me to 
accept any one of the reasons hes given as being  the most likely  one. And I certainly cant  
rule out that the cash was deposited in order to make the now-disputed payments. It does  
otherwise seem unlikely  that Mr M would happen to get defrauded on the very first day he 
paid anything into this account.
Lastly, Ive not seen  any evidence that makes  it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr M 
couldve authorised  these payments or given  someone else permission to make them.
In summary,  based on the evidence, there isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or 
that someone known  to Mr M did this without his permission. That leaves only one likely 
possibility  that Mr M made the disputed transactions or gave someone else permission  to 
make them. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult  message for 
Mr M to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
Lastly, Mr M questioned why Halifax didnt flag these  payments as suspicious. But since Ive 
found its most likely  that Mr M made these payments  himself  or gave someone else 
permission to make them,  I dont think this is relevant.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Halifax to refuse  a refund in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5304241