K821x#15complaint
Mr I is unhappy about the way Lloyds  Bank  PLC treated him whilst hes been trying to repay  
an outstanding  debt. 
background
Mr I held a current account  with Lloyds which was overdrawn. Lloyds defaulted and closed 
the account. The outstanding debt of around £980  was passed to its recoveries department 
in July 2015. Mr Is made payments towards the debt since, but the amounts and how 
regularly he pays have  frequently  changed.  
Following some calls Mr I made to Lloyds in March  2018 he raised a complaint about how 
hed been treated. In summary he was unhappy  with the following:
Lloyds were preventing him from paying  the debt as he couldnt set up a direct  debit. 
Lloyds had told him the incorrect  outstanding  balance during a telephone call. 
Lloyds had tried to call him on telephone numbers that werent his and he hadnt 
given them permission  to use. He said hed previously been the victim of fraud and 
Lloyds actions had worried him and were  a breach of data protection legislation. 
A member of staff had laughed at him on the phone which had upset  him. He said he 
should be considered a vulnerable person due to his circumstances and disabilities 
and hed explained this to the bank on several occasions.
Lloyds continued  to send him letters despite him asking them not to. He said he was 
unable to read them. He said hed asked  for email and phone  contact  but Lloyds had 
refused to agree to either. 
Lloyds agreed  that during one of the calls it had given poor service to Mr I. It agreed to pay 
him £48 compensation for any upset caused and to cover his call costs. It said it had offered 
him options for making  payments towards the debt and he had been told the correct 
outstanding balance during all of the calls. 
Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong  by trying to contact Mr I on different telephone 
numbers. This is because it said Mr I had previously called Lloyds using these numbers. 
Lastly, it said that Mr I was verbally  abusive to staff on phone  calls which  is why it ended 
some calls and sent letters instead. It said it offered other options such  as sending  
responses on a CD or speaking to a representative but Mr I didnt  want that. 
I sent Mr I and Lloyds my provisional decision on 28 January 2019.  I explained  why I thought  
the complaint  should be upheld in part. In summary  I said:
I was satisfied Lloyds  had given Mr I clear options for how he could repay the 
outstanding debt. I thought as Mr I had since made payments,  it showed the 
information given  by Lloyds had helped.  So I didnt think Lloyds had done  anything 
wrong in relation to this issue. 
In one of the calls I found  Mr I had been  given an incorrect outstanding  balance. 
Lloyds were aware Mr I was a vulnerable person, so it knew any wrong information 
was likely to cause  him more stress and upset than it might  do for other customers. 
Mr I said Lloyds had called him on lots of numbers he didnt give them permission to 
use and didnt belong  to him. I didnt think this was fair as Lloyds couldnt be sure 
these numbers belonged to Mr I. I also thought this would have caused increased  
Ref: DRN56059262worry for Mr I about information  potentially  being disclosed to a third party. 
I recommended Lloyds remove the numbers from their records. 
Overall I thought the majority of calls were  dealt with professionally and politely by 
Lloyds. But there was one occasion  where  a call handler laughed in response  to 
something Mr I said. I didnt think this was intended in a way to cause offence but 
agreed with Mr I that it wasnt acceptable. I thought the compensation already offered 
by Lloyds was a fair way to put things right. 
I didnt think Lloyds  had done  anything wrong  when it ended  calls with Mr I. This is 
because of his behaviour towards  their staff.  Lloyds had offered him other options 
like audio CD or talking to a third party but Mr I didnt want  those he wanted  emails or 
calls only. Lloyds said it couldnt  use email  for security reasons and I didnt think  that 
was unreasonable. As Lloyds has continued to speak to Mr I on the phone (as long 
as he isnt abusive)  I didnt think they were treating him unfairly. 
Overall I didnt think the £48 compensation was enough for the mistakes  Lloyds had 
made. I took into account that Mr I had been  abusive to some  Lloyds staff which  did 
make it harder to communicate with him. But I said there  were a number of avoidable 
mistakes and Lloyds could have moved  Mr Is account to be managed by their 
specialist priority team (which they have now done) much  sooner. Had it done this 
then it may have avoided  some of the issues Mr I experienced. I thought overall £200 
compensation was a fair amount for Lloyds to pay. 
Lloyds didnt agree  with my provisional  decision.  
Lloyds thought the mistake in giving the wrong  balance was minor and Mr I was given the 
correct information  quickly. It didnt think this would have caused any significant  upset for 
Mr I given that he hadnt made any payments  towards the debt for a considerable time. 
It also didnt agree that it was wrong  to call Mr I on phone numbers he hadnt given them.  It 
provided evidence  to show it had only called one number  that Mr I had used (but not given to 
them). This was a landline number and Mr I had used it to call Lloyds on many occasions in 
the week leading  up to the call. 
It said Mr Is mobile  number wasnt  connecting so this was the most sensible way to get in 
touch with him. It didnt  think there was any increased risk in releasing information to a third 
party as anyone they spoke to would  have to pass through their security screening first. 
Mr I agreed with the provisional decision.
further developments
After reviewing the additional information by Lloyds, I explained to both parties why I now felt 
my original recommendation should change. I didnt accept the points Lloyds had made  
about the wrong balance  being  a minor mistake. This was because Lloyds was on notice of 
Mr Is mental health problems and the impact of even a minor mistake  would  be more 
significant to him than other customers. 
But, given the new information provided by Lloyds, I did agree it didnt do anything  wrong in 
calling the landline number Mr I had previously used. I said that instead  of several different 
numbers that Mr I had originally said, Lloyds had only used one. Mr I had told Lloyds  not to 
Ref: DRN56059263write to him and the contact numbers he had given werent connecting. So I didnt think in 
these specific circumstances it was unreasonable for Lloyds to try one number which Mr I 
had used several times in the previous week. 
I also accepted  Lloyds explanation about  caller verification and why this wouldnt have  
increased any risk in releasing information  to a third party. For these reasons I thought the 
compensation award should be reduced  to £100  overall (including the £48 Lloyds had 
already paid). 
Lloyds accepted my new recommendation, but Mr I didnt. In summary  he said:
He never  gave Lloyds  permission  to use any other numbers other  than the two 
mobile numbers he previously told them about.  
If the mobile numbers  werent connecting Lloyds  should have tried other contact 
methods like email or post. If they couldnt  send emails for security reasons they 
should have sent him a letter. 
At that time Lloyds hadnt made  any note on their system to say hed asked for no 
letters to be sent. 
It didnt matter even  if hed used that number 500 times  to call Lloyds, they didnt 
have permission to use it. The number belonged  to a family member  and at the time 
he wasnt getting on with them so any messages asking  for a call back  wouldnt have 
been passed on. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr I has only disagreed  with my provisional  decision in relation to the telephone numbers 
that were used to call him. Lloyds has now accepted my revised provisional decision and 
Mr I hasnt provided any comments or evidence in relation to the other issues  that were 
raised. Therefore,  I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached on those  points in 
my provisional decision. Ill now deal with the outstanding issue  of the telephone numbers. 
Mr I says he never gave Lloyds permission to us the landline number. But having listened  
again to some of the calls Mr I had with Lloyds, thats not quite right. In one call in 
March 2018, he told Lloyds that number  was his landline number and he said it was fine for 
Lloyds to call him on it. Later  in the same  call he did ask Lloyds to call his mobile  instead.  
So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to try and call him on the landline  number. 
This was because:
1.Mr I had told Lloyds it was his number;
2.hed used it several times to call Lloyds in the previous week;
3.hed said it was fine for Lloyds to call it; and
4.his mobile number wasnt connecting.  
Mr I says Lloyds should  have sent him a letter or email instead.  Whilst Lloyds could  have 
done that, I dont  think  it did anything wrong by calling him on his landline  for the reasons 
Ive given above. 
Lloyds did still make other mistakes  such as giving him the wrong outstanding balance, 
and unacceptable  behaviour on one phone call. I also think  it could have arranged for Mr I to 
be dealt with by their specialist team much sooner. Overall I think  a total of £100 
Ref: DRN56059264compensation (including the £48 already paid)  is fair for the upset Lloyds has caused to Mr I. 
This is also taking into account  how Mr I has behaved in some of his calls with Lloyds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr I £100 compensation for the upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605926