K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a pick-up  truck he acquired through  a hire purchase  agreement 
financed by Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
The lengthy  background  to this complaint, and my conclusions, were set out in my 
provisional decisions dated 9 October  2018 and 26 March 2019. Copies are attached and 
form part of this final decision. 
In those earlier decisions, I explained why I felt Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld. 
In summary,  I said that:
-I was satisfied  there  was enough  evidence to persuade me that an inherent  defect  with the 
truck was present  or manifesting at the point of supply.  So I didnt think  Blue Motor Finance 
had acted fairly and reasonably by supplying a truck that was not of satisfactory quality. 
-I set out the steps that I thought  Blue Motor Finance  should  take to put things  right, 
which included  ending the hire purchase agreement and covering the cost of repairs  
Mr C paid for. I also said that Blue Motor Finance should refund all of the monthly 
repayments hed made  in addition to covering some of the reasonably  foreseeable 
business losses  incurred as a result of not being  able to use the truck. I also suggested 
that Blue Motor  Finance should  pay £350  compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Mr C. 
Following my first provisional  decision, Mr C broadly agreed with the outcome but submitted 
evidence of further losses. But Blue Motor  Finance disagreed that it had any responsibility  to 
meet Mr Cs business losses as a result of the fault with the truck and referred to an 
exclusion clause in the hire purchase  agreement Mr C signed. 
It said it had been  contractually agreed that it wouldnt be responsible for the quality of the 
truck or whether it was fit for purpose. Blue Motor Finance said that Mr C, in his capacity as 
owner of his equestrian business,  would  have needed to use his own skill and judgment to 
determine whether  the truck  was of satisfactory  quality.  
It also disagreed with how Id proposed to put things right. It didnt think  Mr C had provided  
enough evidence  to support his business  losses and felt the mileage Mr C had been able to 
do in the time that hed had the truck should  be taken into account.  
I contacted Blue Motor  Finance to explore the new arguments it had put forward in response 
to my first provisional decision. I said that whilst  I accepted  that it was legally possible  to limit 
liability for breach  of implied conditions in some circumstances, I didnt think  those 
circumstances applied  here. Blue Motor Finance disagreed. 
In my second provisional decision, I explained  that I wasnt persuaded that it would be fair 
for Blue Motor Finance  to be able to rely on the clause in the hire purchase agreement  that 
allows it to exclude  liability  for breaches of satisfactory quality in the particular circumstances 
of this case. 
Ref: DRN57613162I looked at Mr Cs circumstances at the time he entered  into the agreement.  I thought that 
Mr C was most likely  unaware of the exclusion clause  in the agreement at the time he 
entered into it. I pointed  out that it wasnt an individually  negotiated contract and that I didnt 
think Mr C wouldve expected an exclusion clause of this nature to be in the agreement 
based on custom and practice. I also wasnt persuaded that Mr C was told about the 
restrictive terms and the different arrangements that could apply when entering into an 
agreement for business use. 
I also revisited the proposals Id made  in my first provisional decision  to put things right.  
Blue Motor  Finance felt they went  too far. It was concerned that Id not made any allowance  
for the mileage Mr C had been able to do in the truck and felt that his business losses hadnt 
been sufficiently  substantiated. Mr C didnt think the proposal covered all of his losses  and 
had provided further details  of costs hed incurred.
I wasnt persuaded that it would be fair for Mr C to pay for the mileage that hed been able to 
do. I didnt think  hed had good, uninterrupted  use of the truck, even in the short time that hed 
been able to use it. I thought the mileage  Mr C had done was because  he was making  the best 
of a bad situation as Blue Motor Finance had told him it wasnt  possible to return the truck. 
I looked again at Mr Cs business losses. I explained that I needed to see supporting 
evidence that clearly demonstrated  a close connection between the losses  being claimed 
and the finance providers  actions.  I thought  in this case it would  be reasonable to expect 
that there  wouldve been an impact  on Mr Cs business as a direct result of him being 
supplied a truck that was of unsatisfactory quality. 
I thought Mr Cs explanation around  why he could continue with some  of the riding  lessons 
and his estimation  of his losses was reasonable. I didnt think that Mr Cs invoices in relation 
to the hay delivery  and the mucking  out costs were  overstated  or unreasonable  either. I also 
noted that the period  of time that Mr C was paying  for two insurance policies was much  
shorter than first thought,  so thought  it would  be fair for Blue Motor  Finance to cover the cost 
of the insurance  Mr C paid for his small car from when he first insured it to when he 
cancelled the insurance for the truck. 
Following my second provisional decision,  Mr C responded to say that the whole experience 
of having the truck has been  an ordeal. He pointed  out that the truck has been broken down 
for 22 of the past 25 months.  He said that his business and his health  have  suffered 
considerably as a result  of this dispute.  He pointed out that his losses  could have been 
avoided entirely  if Blue Motor Finance  had allowed him to reject the truck when he asked.
Mr C said he was desperate to bring  things to a close so that he could move  on and rebuild 
his business. He pointed out that hed lost events and clients as a result  of this. He said he 
would be willing to pay for half of the mileage that hes been able to do in the truck at the 
rate of 25p per mile to show some goodwill. He also said that he didnt want to prolong 
things any further  by getting updated  invoices from the traders  that deliver the hay and 
provide him with mucking out services.
Ref: DRN57613163Blue Motor  Finance didnt agree with my second  provisional decision. It said that it 
maintained its position  for all of the reasons it has already given. It said that my decision not 
to give any credit to Blue Motor Finance for the mileage that Mr C had been  able to do was 
unfair. It said that Mr C had clearly had a financial benefit in using the truck  for commercial 
purposes. It said Mr C wasnt entitled  to receive  a further benefit whether contractually,  in 
law or in equity. 
It added that my decision would unjustly enrich  Mr C and that it considered  it to be a penal 
sanction that wasnt justifiable. It maintained that Mr C had the benefit of a consumer hire 
vehicle which he had inappropriately used  for the purposes of his business. 
In relation to the riding lessons, it said that Mr C shouldve taken appropriate steps to 
mitigate his losses by arranging alternative  transport or rescheduling the lessons. It pointed  
out that Mr C did not obtain appropriate  insurance  against business losses given his heavy 
reliance on the truck.
In relation to the hay delivery and mucking  out expenses, it said that it would be for me to 
verify the costs incurred  directly with the suppliers. It said that the information provided by 
Mr C was sparse and that it wasnt sufficient  for me to make  a decision that Blue Motor 
Finance would be liable for these expenses without making  the appropriate enquiries. It said 
that Mr Cs evidence should be tested in order to ensure fairness.  
The matter  now requires  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor  Finance said that it disputes  my second  provisional decision for the reasons it 
has already stated. Ive already set out in my provisional decisions,  in some detail, my 
consideration of the evidence and what I think are the key issues in this case. I dont intend 
to repeat those considerations.
As Blue Motor Finance  hasnt provided  any new information or evidence for me to consider 
specifically in relation to whether it would  be fair for it to be able to rely on the exclusion 
clause, I see no reason to depart from the position  that I reached in my second provisional 
decision and for the reasons that I gave there. I remain  of the opinion that it would not be fair 
or reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to rely on the term excluding  the implied condition  that 
the goods under the agreement were of satisfactory  quality.  
I shall now go on to consider Blue Motor Finances further comments about my proposed redress. 
Blue Motor  Finance feels it is unfair  that my decision doesnt make  allowance  for the 4,000 
miles that Mr C was able to do in the time that he could use the truck, especially when I am 
proposing awarding  consequential losses and a payment for distress  and inconvenience.  
But in its response  to my second provisional decision, Blue Motor Finance also said:
it is clear  that your decision  intends  to put Mr C back  in the position he would have  been  in 
but for the alleged defects to the vehicle and/or to compensate him for any loss that he may 
have suffered as a result of the alleged defects.
Ref: DRN57613164I dont think this is an unreasonable position for me to take or that by doing so, I would be 
unjustly enriching  Mr C, as Blue Motor Finance has suggested. 
As Ive explained in considerable  detail previously, Mr C has had a lot of trouble with this 
truck from very early  on. He didnt  have three  months of continuous, uninterrupted driving. 
The reality  of his experience of having the truck  was very different. He entered into the hire 
purchase agreement  on 23 March 2017.  Less than two weeks  later,  the truck was off the 
road and required  a repair. Then the truck was off the road again  in June 2017 and required 
a further, more substantive repair for the same fault.  This fault occurred  again  in August 
2017. Mr C has pointed  out that the truck has been broken down for 22 of the past 25 
months. For these reasons, along with the commentary Ive already given in my first and 
second provisional decisions, I dont  think its fair for Mr C to have  to pay anything  towards  
the mileage he was able to do. 
Whilst I can appreciate that Mr C has, in good faith,  made a gesture to pay something 
towards the mileage  to try and bring the matter  to a close,  I dont agree that it would be fair 
for him to pay anything  towards the mileage that he was able to do. In these circumstances, 
I think its clear  that Mr C was making  the best of a bad situation  because Blue Motor 
Finance didnt agree that he could  reject the vehicle,  even though it had been subject to 
recurrent repairs very early on. 
Blue Motor  Finance also disagreed with the proposals Id put forward to take into account the 
losses incurred by Mr Cs business.  I accept that not having access to a truck will have had a 
wide reaching impact on Mr Cs business  operations. But I think its important for Blue Motor 
Finance to note that Im not saying that it needs  to pay compensation to cover all of Mr Cs 
business losses. Im only proposing that Blue Motor Finance should pay compensation for 
losses that Mr C can support. I dont think this is unreasonable or unfair. 
Blue Motor  Finance suggests that Mr C could  have done more to mitigate  his losses. 
It suggests that he couldve arranged alternative transport or that he couldve  rescheduled 
the cancelled  riding lessons. It also suggests  that he shouldve taken out insurance against 
business losses given  his heavy reliance on the truck. 
But I think Mr C has taken reasonable steps to minimise his losses.  Mr C has explained to 
me that he hasnt been able to buy another truck to use because money is tight. But Mr C 
has made alternative arrangements, as best as he can. Hes told me that he purchased  a 
cheap small car to try and tide him over. He didnt anticipate when he did that just how long 
this dispute was going to run for. Mr C has explained to me, and I have outlined  in my 
previous decisions,  that the lessons  that were cancelled would have involved the use of 
equipment that he couldnt transport and that they were scheduled  to be in off road locations 
rather than at stables.  Given the nature of Mr Cs business, I think what hes said about  
missing out on these lessons is feasible.  
It also ties in with the evidence  hes been  able to provide from his desk  diaries.  So I dont 
think making an award of £1925 to cover these missed lessons would be disproportionate.  
I would also point out that this award only covers  lessons  that Mr C had already got booked 
in. Given how long this dispute has been  running for, its likely Mr C will have lost out on 
further opportunities to give riding  lessons  that cannot be fairly quantified.  
Ref: DRN57613165Turning now to the hay delivery and mucking  out costs that Mr C has cited, 
Blue Motor  Finance says that Mr Cs evidence should be tested to ensure fairness. It says 
that it wouldnt be sufficient for me to make  the decision that it should be liable for these  
expenses without making the appropriate  enquiries. It has suggested that it would be 
prudent for me to verify  with the suppliers whether these costs  were incurred. 
I agree  with Blue Motor Finance that it shouldnt  pay for losses  that cannot be substantiated.  
Mr C has been consistent and compelling with his recollections during the course  of this 
dispute and he has openly provided  as much evidence and detail as he can whenever I have 
asked for it. I also think its important to note that Mr C would  have been  able to collect the 
hay and move the muck himself if the truck  supplied had been of satisfactory quality.  So his 
business has directly  incurred extra costs to make  these  essential arrangements.  
Mr C has provided invoices  from the traders to show the costs hes incurred. Hes explained 
that the services  are provided by other  sole traders of a similar size and structure to his 
business and that these  invoices are sufficient for his accounting purposes.  Hes provided 
the contact details of the traders.  I have  personally  contacted both traders  and verified the 
invoices that Mr C has submitted. As a result, I am satisfied that the paperwork  Mr C has 
provided correctly reflects  the costs his business had incurred up until the date the invoices 
were produced. Mr C has told me that he doesnt  wish to submit updated records  for any 
costs beyond the date of these invoices as he cant prolong matters  any further. Its readily  
apparent that this ongoing situation is having a devastating impact on his business.  
In my first provisional decision, I said that Blue Motor Finance should refund the insurance 
for the small car Mr C purchased from when  Mr C first insured it to the date of settlement of 
this dispute. I thought  this was fair and reasonable on the basis that Mr C was paying to 
insure the truck and the small car simultaneously when he wouldnt have needed to do so if 
the truck  had been of satisfactory quality. However,  in response to that decision Mr C said 
hed cancelled the insurance  for the truck  in March  2018. As Mr C acquired the small car in 
November 2017,  the period where  he was paying for two insurance  policies is much shorter  
than first thought. With this in mind, I thought it would be fair for Blue Motor  Finance to cover  
the cost of the insurance Mr C paid for the small car from when he first insured it to when he 
cancelled the insurance for the truck. 
Mr C has provided me with evidence from his insurers to show the separate  cover  that was 
in place for each  vehicle.  Hes also provided me with evidence from his bank to show that he 
paid five monthly insurance premiums for the small car between November 2017 and 
March 2018, amounting  to £300.57.  So I think it would be fair for Blue Motor Finance to 
reimburse these specific  payments. 
I dont consider that my decision unjustly enriches Mr C, as Blue Motor  Finance has 
suggested. Hes maintained that almost  from the outset this truck has had significant 
problems. The redress is intended to put Mr C back into, or as close  as is possible, the 
position he would have been in had he not been  supplied with a truck of unsatisfactory  
quality. I hope  that this final decision helps  both parties to finally  now draw a line under this 
long running dispute. 
Ref: DRN57613166my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
collect the truck  at no cost to Mr C. 
end the hire purchase agreement with Mr C with nothing further owed  by him
refund the £250 deposit  Mr C effectively  paid by part exchanging his previous vehicle 
when he entered into the hire purchase agreement. It must pay interest on this refund at 
the rate of 8% simple  per year. The interest should be calculated  from the date the 
deposit was paid until the date of settlement. 
Mr C has provided a bank statement to show he paid £50 directly  to the dealership  to 
hold the truck. As Ive not seen anything to show  that this was refunded  to him or used 
to reduce the purchase price,  I agree  that this is a consequential loss that Blue Motor  
Finance Ltd should reimburse  Mr C for, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple  per year 
from the date it was paid until the date of settlement.
If Mr C paid any acceptance fees or purchase  activation fees,  Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
should refund them.  It should add interest at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The interest 
should be calculated  from the date Mr C paid the fees to the date of settlement.
reimburse Mr C for the £940 payment he made towards the repairs  plus 8% simple 
interest from the date Mr C made the payment to the date of settlement.
refund all of the monthly repayments  Mr C made. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must pay 
interest at the 8% simple per year. The interest should be calculated  from the date each 
repayment was made  until the date of settlement.
remove all mention  of the agreement from Mr Cs credit  file
pay Mr C £1925 for the riding  lessons his diaries  show were lost as a result of him not 
being able to get there 
reimburse the increased costs Mr C incurred for the delivery of the hay and the mucking 
out. The traders  have  confirmed to me that Mr C paid £1,880 to have manure removed 
and £900 to have hay delivered.  Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
year, from the date Mr C made  the payments  until the date of settlement. 
reimburse the five insurance premiums Mr C paid to insure  the small car from November 
2017 to March 2018, totalling £300.57. Blue Motor Finance  Ltd should pay interest on 
this refund  at the rate of 8% simple  per year, from the date Mr C made each payment to 
the date of settlement. 
pay Mr C £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Blue Motor Finance Ltds  
lack of correspondence at pivotal times caused  him.
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
Ref: DRN57613167If Blue Motor Finance  Ltd considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that 
interest, it must send  a tax deduction  certificate with the payment so that Mr C can reclaim  
the tax if he is able to.
Mr C should refer back to Blue Motor  Finance  Ltd if he is unsure of the approach  it has taken.
Both parties  should  contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more  about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57613168COPY OF MY FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that a pick-up  truck he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
At the end of March 2017, Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used pick-up truck.  
Mr C is a sole trader and wanted the truck specifically  for his equestrian business. The cash  price  of 
the truck was £16,750. It was first registered in 2013 and had done just over 32,000 miles when it was 
supplied to him. 
On 3 April 2017, Mr C started to experience problems with the DPF filter,  causing the car to go into 
limp mode. He explains  that he contacted the dealership that supplied the truck  and was told to take 
the car to the nearest main dealer garage. The DPF filter was repaired and the supplying dealer  
covered that cost. Mr C collected the truck on 14 April. 
On 9 June  2017, the truck went  into limp mode whilst Mr C was driving on the motorway. Mr C 
contacted the dealership  that supplied  the truck. They said to take it to the main dealer garage. The 
main dealer advised  that the DPF filter was blocked and couldnt be regenerated.  A new DPF filter,  
pipes and sensors had to be fitted  at a cost of almost  £2,300. The trucks mileage at this time was 
33,830. Mr C says he was struggling to get hold of the supplying dealership on the phone and that 
theyd stopped  responding  to his emails.  So he had no choice but to go ahead and get the work  done 
as he needed the truck urgently for work. Mr C collected the repaired truck on 22 June  2017. 
At the same time, Mr C contacted Blue Motor Finance. He explained there had been  a further fault 
with the DPF that hed needed to get repaired. Blue Motor Finance issued its first final response on 
27 July 2017. It proposed  splitting the cost of the repair three ways with Mr C, the supplying  dealer 
and Blue Motor Finance each contributing a third. Mr C received a payment of £1,880 for the 
contributions from the supplying dealer and the finance company. 
In August, the truck went into limp mode whilst Mr C was driving on the motorway.  Mr C says that 
Blue Motor Finance told him to take it back to the main dealer garage.
The main dealer garage said work had been carried out on the engine in the past as there were 
traces of silicone. Mr C says the main  dealer garage told him the engine had been rejuvenated 44 
times in the month before  he got the truck  but this hadnt been documented.  It said there was a 
misfire causing  excess  fuelling  and excess soot build  up within the DPF,  which  was likely caused by 
an injector or a holed  piston,  but the engine  would require  a main strip down to confirm  this. The main 
dealer suggested that it wouldnt be cost effective to try and fix the engine  given that it looked to have 
been repaired  previously and that it should  be replaced. 
Mr C told Blue Motor Finance that he wanted to reject the car and cancel the finance agreement. 
Blue Motor Finance wrote to Mr C on 22 August 2017 to confirm that it would investigate these points. 
Mr C chased Blue Motor Finance for a response. The truck  was at the main dealers garage and they 
wanted it to be moved. On 1 September  2017,  Blue Motor Finance arranged for the truck to be moved  
from the main dealers garage  to the supplying dealers garage. 
Mr C was anxious  to find out what was going on. He chased Blue Motor  Finance again as hed not 
had any response to his emails or phone messages.  He reiterated that he wanted to reject the truck. 
Ref: DRN57613169The supplying  dealer arranged for the truck to be inspected. This inspection happened on 
20 September 2017 when the truck had done 35,079 miles. The inspection report suggested that the 
problem with the DPF was happening because Mr C wasnt taking extended journeys on a weekly  
basis to aid the regeneration process or because the truck had been subjected  to excessive forced 
regeneration as a result of the repairs. The inspection  also concluded  that there were  holes in the 
cylinder head  along with damage to the cylinder piston, bore and glow plug tip. 
Blue Motor Finance issued another final response on 10 October  2017.  It said that the problems with 
the DPF were caused by the way Mr C was driving  the truck. It added  that it wouldnt be able to share  
the inspection report with Mr C because it was paid for by the supplying dealership. Mr C disagreed  
that the problems were because of the way he was driving the truck.  He pointed out that the truck  had 
broken down  twice whilst he was making  long motorway  journeys.
On 20 November  2017,  Blue Motor Finance contacted Mr C to let him know that the supplying  dealer 
had repaired the truck with a reconditioned  engine  even though  they felt it wasnt their liability.  
Blue Motor Finance told Mr C that he was still liable for the repayments.  
Mr C contacted solicitors,  who proposed  a compromise.  The solicitors said that Blue Motor  Finance 
should refund four payments because Mr C had been unable to use the truck  for four months. 
The solicitors also wanted to see the inspection report.  They suggested that Mr C should  be allowed 
to terminate the agreement if there  are any further problems with the DPF. 
On 14 December  2017,  Blue Motor Finance replied  to Mr Cs solicitors. It said that it had no liability to 
repair the truck and that Mr C has no right to reject it. It pointed out that the supplying dealership had 
repaired the truck as gesture  of goodwill and that Mr C hadnt  collected  it. 
On 10 January 2018, the supplying dealer delivered  the truck to Mr C. He explains that he tried to 
make the best of the situation and used the truck to drive to a weekend away. Mr C says the DPF 
filter light came on whilst he was driving  on the motorway. He contacted Blue Motor Finance  to let 
them know the problem  was still happening. 
Mr C pointed out that the truck had been  in the garage for almost all of the time that hed had it. He 
felt it had already been well established that there had been  problems with it right from the very start. 
Mr C decided to stop making the monthly payments. He said it was financial and emotional madness 
to continue to pay for the truck in these  circumstances. He felt hed made  it perfectly clear  that he 
wanted to reject it many  times and that hed been ignored. 
Mr C said that Blue Motor  Finance reluctantly agreed to send an engineer out to inspect the new 
problem with the truck after he contacted his MP. 
On 21 February 2018, Blue Motor Finance registered a further  complaint for Mr C and arranged  the 
inspection. On 27 February 2018, the engineer came out. At this point in time, the truck  had done 
36,130 miles.  Mr C says that the engineer felt it wasnt safe to drive or inspect the truck  as moving it 
could do more damage.  
The engineers report said that it was unable to connect diagnostic equipment to the truck. It noted  
that the DPF light was flashing on the display  and states that no road testing was carried out for fear 
of causing consequential damage. The engineer  provided an opinion that the current fault was most 
likely as a consequence of the type of use that the vehicle  had been subjected  to. 
On 1 March 2018, Blue Motor Finance issued another final response.  It said that as Mr C had entered 
into the agreement over six months ago, it was his responsibility to prove the fault with the truck  was 
there or developing  at the point of sale. It pointed out the most recent report had concluded  that the 
fault with the DPF system wasnt  linked  to the repairs  that had previously  been carried  out. 
Ref: DRN576131610Both Mr C and his MP contacted Blue Motor Finance to point out that the engineer  hadnt actually  
driven the truck. Blue Motor Finance said that the reason the DPF light was illuminated  was down to 
the maintenance of the DPF system. Mr C said it was complete guess work for Blue Motor  Finance 
to say the ongoing problem  was caused  by maintenance when no test drive  or computer diagnostics 
had been undertaken. 
Blue Motor Finance wrote to Mr C to chase the arrears on the account. So Mr C asked us to investigate.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt feel the current issue with the DPF was present from the 
point of sale because  the early issues Mr C had experienced had been repaired.  He placed weight on 
the independent inspections and felt it was Mr Cs driving  style that was the most probable  cause of 
the DPF failing. 
Mr C didnt agree. He pointed out that hed only been able to drive  the truck  for three months since 
the agreement had started.  He felt the problem  with the DPF had been  consistently reoccurring. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review matters  afresh, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I am minded to uphold  it. So Ill explain why. 
Mr C acquired the truck  through  a hire purchase agreement in March 2017.  As the supplier of the 
truck, Blue Motor Finance is responsible for the quality of the truck  its providing. 
I have to take account of relevant law when I decide  what is fair and reasonable. The relevant 
legislation says that goods  should be of satisfactory quality which means  they meet the standard  that 
a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory (taking account of their description, price, and other 
relevant considerations).  Aspects of the quality  of goods can include their durability. If goods are not 
of satisfactory quality, then the finance  provider  can be liable as this is a breach of contract. 
In this case, the first thing I need to decide  is whether the truck was of satisfactory  quality  at the time it 
was supplied to Mr C. This involves me considering what a reasonable person would expect of a truck 
of this age and cost. If I dont  think Blue Motor Finance supplied a truck of satisfactory quality, Ill then 
need to go on to think about what it should do now to put things right.
did Blue Motor Finance supply a truck of satisfactory quality? 
Blue Motor Finance supplied Mr C with a truck that was around  three years old and had done in the 
region of 32,000 miles. I dont think Mr C expected the truck  to be in perfect  condition,  but given that it 
had a cash price of £16,750,  I think it was reasonable  for him to expect  that he could  drive it free from 
major defects  for a considerable  period  of time. Blue Motor Finance  wouldnt  be responsible for any 
wear and tear issues, but it would be responsible if the truck was sold with defects that you wouldnt 
expect on a vehicle of this age, mileage  and price.  
Mr C experienced problems with the DPF filter almost  from the very beginning. A regeneration  repair  
to the DPF filter was required less than two weeks after he got the truck. But it wasnt  clear at this 
point in time that the problem with the DPF was significant.  
From the information I have  I understand that problems  can arise with DPF filters if the vehicle isnt 
driven over a certain speed for a consistent time, as this is needed  to ensure particles are expelled. 
This first regeneration repair happened quickly, at no cost to Mr C. 
Ref: DRN576131611Mr C then experienced  problem after problem  relating to the DPF filter in June 2017, despite taking 
the truck on longer  journeys  on the motorway as recommended. The DPF filter was entirely  replaced 
with a brand  new system by a manufacturer main dealer just two months after the first regeneration  
took place. This was an expensive  and seemingly  significant repair. Considering the age and mileage 
of the truck  at the time it seems unexpected and unlikely to be attributed to general wear and tear. 
And I dont think it was appropriate for Blue Motor Finance to suggest that Mr C should have to pay 
one third towards the cost of replacing the system given that the law says the onus  is on it, as 
supplier, to make sure the truck was of satisfactory quality. 
I can see that the supplying dealership felt it couldve arranged for the system  replacement to have 
been done much cheaper than the main  dealers price. But Mr C has been consistent  in his 
recollections that he was told to take the truck to a manufacturer main dealer. And hes also shown us 
the emails that he sent to the supplying dealership at the time that were  never responded to. Given  
that Mr Cs business was losing money whilst the truck was off the road, I can see why he needed to 
repair it as quickly as possible. 
I think  it was reasonable for Mr C to assume that entirely replacing the DPF system would  resolve the 
issue. Yet still the problem  persisted. I note that the truck went into limp mode  whilst  Mr C was 
travelling on the motorway at speed. So Mr C was driving the truck for longer distances and at higher 
speeds, which  should  be sufficient to enable the DPF to be regenerated.  
So Im not persuaded  that the problems Mr C has experienced with the truck  are due to fair wear and 
tear or his driving style.  As Mr C has experienced  the same issue repeatedly, even after the truck had 
a brand new DPF system and a reconditioned  engine, I think  its more likely the fault with the DPF is 
due to an inherent  problem with the truck that hasnt been fixed properly.  
The investigator placed  weight on the independent inspection reports. But Im not persuaded that the 
reports are conclusive. The inspection that took place in September 2017 suggests the problem  with 
the DPF filter is most likely  because it wasnt being regenerated  in service. But from what Mr C has 
told me about his business,  he was required to make  journeys of the kind that would regenerate the 
DPF on a weekly basis. And its clear  from what the main dealer had said about  the condition of the 
engine that work had been  carried out on it before. 
The report suggests that the engine  cylinder  head displayed holing consistent  with increased 
combustion temperatures and damage to a cylinder piston bore and glow plug tip which was linked  to 
DPF concerns. It seems unlikely  that Mr Cs driving  style wouldve been able to do that much damage 
to the truck  in such a short space of time,  especially when  taking into account  the amount of time the 
truck had been off the road.
When the truck was inspected again in February 2018, the engineer was unable  to connect diagnostic 
equipment. The report clearly states  that the engineer declined to carry out road testing  for fear of 
causing consequential damage. With this in mind, all the report was able to establish with any 
certainty was that the truck  was still presenting with DPF concerns. I dont think it was fair to say that 
the faults would not have been developing  at the point of sale given that Mr C encountered problems  
very soon after he got the truck and the evidence  from the main  dealer garage suggests the engine  
had been repaired  previously. 
Having very carefully considered all the evidence which has been presented in this complaint I think  
its more likely  than not that the truck was not of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Mr C. 
Its clear that the truck hasnt performed  as it shouldve done. I think  it was supplied with an underlying 
defect that has presented a persistent problem  with the DPF. And I think  its most likely that the 
previous repairs to the engine were connected  to this problem. As such, Im not persuaded that in 
supplying a truck of that quality Blue Motor  Finance  acted fairly and reasonably. So next I have to 
consider a fair way to put things right.
Ref: DRN576131612putting things  right
Its clear that Mr C wanted to reject the truck from very early  on. And I think that he should have been 
able to do this once it became clear that the earlier  repairs  failed. I understand that further repairs 
have been carried out but the latest report confirms issues with the DPF are still presenting. This is 
despite a reconditioned engine being fitted and an entire DPF system replacement. With this in mind, 
I think  it would be fair for Mr C to reject the truck with Blue Motor  Finance collecting it at no cost and 
ending the hire purchase agreement,  with nothing further owed by him. Blue Motor  Finance should 
also refund  the £50 deposit  Mr C paid to hold the truck and the value  of the part exchange when he 
entered into the agreement, as well as the money he contributed towards  repair costs. 
Mr C said that he stopped making  the monthly repayments because he didnt want  to pay for a truck  
that he couldnt  use. And whilst I can appreciate that would be frustrating  for him, Im also mindful that 
Mr C had signed an agreement  to say that he would  make the payments. Having said that, theres a 
period of at least five months where  the truck wasnt in Mr Cs possession.  Its also evident that the 
truck has been off the road for weeks at a time whilst extensive repairs  have been carried out. The 
mileage when  Mr C got the truck was around 32,000. At the last documented inspection in February  
2018, the mileage was 36,130. I think this supports  Mr Cs position that hes hardly been able to use 
it. Given the independent engineers  comments  that driving the truck may cause more  damage, I can 
see why Mr C lost confidence with the truck and didnt feel able to drive  it. 
In these circumstances, Im currently minded to think it would be fair for Blue Motor  Finance to refund 
the payments Mr C did make and ensure that the agreement is removed from his credit file. 
the impact on Mr Cs business
Mr C has explained that this issue  has had a huge impact on his life and business.  He feels that 
Blue Motor Finance should cover the business  losses  that are directly  attributable to not having the 
truck, as well as paying  compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused him.
Mr C says that he purchased the truck to move his equine equipment, to tow his horse box and also 
because it was suitable  for him to get to riding lessons, which hes said were  often located on farms 
and in fields. From what Mr C has told me about his equestrian activities, his need for a vehicle like 
this one makes sense.  But in order to fairly  say that Blue Motor Finance should  be responsible for 
covering some or all of these  costs, I need to see persuasive evidence that Mr Cs business  has 
made these  losses. Id also have  to think these losses came around as a direct  result of something 
Blue Motor Finance did wrong  and that it was reasonably  foreseeable to Blue Motor Finance  that 
Mr C would make these  losses. 
Mr C says hes lost £1,925  from riding lessons that he wasnt able to get to and £3,300  from weddings  
that he wasnt  able to do. Hes said that hes had to pay an extra £900 for hay to be delivered to him 
and £1,880 for muck to be removed as hes not able to collect  or move anything himself  without a 
truck. Mr C did buy a small cheap car in November  2017 when it became  apparent that the problem 
with the truck  was ongoing and the dispute wasnt going to be resolved. Whilst this meant he was able 
to mitigate some of his losses for the riding  lessons, hes said that the small car wasnt suitable  for 
transporting hay bales or mucking out. Mr C points out that hes also had to pay extra to insure the 
small car as well as the truck. 
So I think it would be reasonably foreseeable that Mr C not having access  to a truck would  have some 
knock on impact to his business. I asked Mr C to provide  evidence to support  these losses.  Mr C has 
explained that his industry is predominately  cash based and he doesnt have receipts. I accept Mr Cs 
position that his records of the riding lessons are in his desk diaries. Mr C has provided extracts from 
his diaries to show that hes lost riding  lesson  clients. The dates on which the blocks of lessons are 
cancelled do coincide with the problems  with the truck, so it seems  more likely than not that these 
lessons were  cancelled because Mr C didnt  have  reliable transportation to be able to take them.  
Ref: DRN576131613Ive not seen  anything  that makes me think these clients decided not to continue lessons for any other 
reason. Ive looked carefully at the diaries and I can see that Mr C had five clients that used to take 
regular riding lessons disappear from his books. So Im currently  minded to think that Mr Cs estimation 
of the amount hes lost as a result of not being  able to teach his lessons  isnt unreasonable. 
I asked Mr C if he could provide invoices  for the costs of the hay and mucking out. I accept the 
principle that it would  cost more to have  hay delivered  and muck taken away compared to what  it 
would cost Mr C to arrange  these things himself. But Mr C hasnt been able to provide any receipts to 
show the extra hes paid or any confirmation of the increased costs  from the traders that have been 
doing this work for him. Without a clear audit trail that shows the increased costs as result of not 
having access  to a truck, its very difficult  for me to fairly quantify these losses or say that 
Blue Motor Finance should be responsible  for them. 
Ive also thought  about  the weddings that Mr C says he wasnt able to do. I asked Mr C if he had any 
emails or contracts to show what  the jobs wouldve  been, or if any of the couples  had paid him a deposit. 
I also asked Mr C more  about what the costs  to him wouldve been so that I could  understand how much 
potential profit he mightve made.  Whilst I do understand why Mr C ultimately couldnt take the jobs on, 
Im also mindful  that he hasnt been able to provide  any specific evidence to show specifically what had 
been arranged or that he turned the jobs down. So I cant be as sure about this potential  loss as I would 
need to be in order to say that it would  be fair for Blue Motor  Finance to cover it.
Mr C says that he spent £480 on solicitors  fees during  this dispute. Whilst Ive not seen any invoices to 
confirm this, Im not currently  persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable  for me to say that Blue Motor 
Finance needs to cover  these costs. This is because it was Mr Cs choice  to instruct a solicitor to try and 
move things forward to a resolution. It wasnt something that Blue Motor  Finance told him he needed to 
do and he has been able to pursue the dispute independently of using legal  assistance.  
Turning now to the small  car Mr C purchased, I understand his position that he probably wouldnt  
have needed to buy this car at all if the truck  had been of satisfactory quality.  But I dont think it would  
be fair for Blue Motor  Finance to refund the £275 Mr C says he paid for it. This is because  Mr C could 
potentially sell the car to recover  that money. In addition, Mr C has said that he intends to keep the 
car for his partner to drive, so its clear that hes still going to get some benefit  from it after this dispute 
has ended. 
Having said that, I can appreciate that Mr C has paid two lots of insurance simultaneously when  he 
wouldnt otherwise have done so. Hes said that the insurance for the car was around £730 a year and 
the insurance  for the truck was around £750 a year. Im mindful that it was a requirement of the finance 
agreement that the truck was insured. Im also mindful  that Mr C was always going  to have to pay to 
insure one vehicle if everything  had gone to plan. With this in mind, I currently think it would be fair for 
Blue Motor Finance to cover the cost of the insurance for the replacement car Mr C obtained from the 
date that he first insured it to the settlement  date of this dispute. In order for Blue Motor  Finance to work 
out what  this amount should  be, Mr C should provide the details of his cover.  
the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr C.
From what Ive read in this case, I think Blue Motor Finance were  aware  some time ago that Mr C had 
experienced more trouble than was fair for a truck of this age, cost and mileage. 
In an internal email dated 30 August 2017, Blue Motor Finance  says as the vehicle is faulty again  the 
customer is looking to reject  the vehicle. At this point we believe the customer  has this right as this is 
the third fault with the vehicle and also so sooner (sic) after having the last repair.
Mr C has repeatedly made it very clear  to Blue Motor Finance how worried he was about  this matter 
and how not having a truck  could impact his business. Mr C has had to do most of the running to 
move things forward, as well as explaining his concerns over and over again. A lot of the anxiety  and 
upset that Mr C has experienced over this past year couldve  been avoided  if Blue Motor  Finance had 
allowed Mr C to reject the vehicle sooner.  
Ref: DRN576131614Whilst I recognise that money cant make up for the impact things have had on Mr C, especially given 
what hes said about  his health, I do think it would be appropriate for Blue Motor Finance  to pay Mr C 
£350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.  Its clear  that Blue Motor  
Finances customer  service  has had a considerable impact on Mr C over the time this dispute has 
been running.  Blue Motor Finance wasnt very responsive  to his emails and calls when decisions 
about both the repairs and storage of the truck  needed  to be made. Its clear that Mr C had to send 
multiple emails and make  many  phone calls to chase matters up, which has caused him anxiety.  
To summarise, Im currently  minded  to think it would  be a fair and reasonable outcome  for 
Blue Motor Finance to:
collect the truck at no cost to Mr C
end the hire purchase agreement with Mr C with nothing  further owed by him
refund the £250 deposit  Mr C effectively  paid by part exchanging his previous vehicle when he 
entered into the hire purchase agreement. It must pay interest  on this refund at the rate of 8% 
simple per year. The interest  should be calculated from the date the deposit was paid until the 
date of settlement.  
Mr C has provided a bank statement to show he paid £50 directly to the dealership to hold the 
truck. As Ive not seen anything to show that this was refunded  to him or used to reduce the 
purchase price, I agree  that this is a consequential  loss that Blue Motor Finance  should  
reimburse Mr C for, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date it was paid until 
the date of settlement.  
If Mr C paid any acceptance fees or purchase activation fees, Blue Motor  Finance should refund  
them. It should add interest at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The interest should be calculated 
from the date Mr C paid the fees to the date of settlement.
reimburse Mr C for the £940 payment he made towards the repairs plus 8% simple interest from 
the date Mr C made the payment to the date of settlement.
refund all of the monthly repayments Mr C made. Blue Motor  Finance must  pay interest at the 
8% simple per year.  The interest should  be calculated  from the date each repayment was made 
until the date of settlement. 
remove  all mention of the agreement from Mr Cs credit file
pay Mr C £1925 for the riding  lessons  his diaries  show were lost as a result of not being  able to 
get there 
Refund the insurance for the small  car Mr C purchased from when Mr C first insured it to the date 
of settlement  of this dispute. It should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date 
Mr C made each payment to the date of settlement
pay Mr C £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Blue Motor Finance  Finances 
lack of correspondence  at pivotal times caused him
If Blue Motor  Finance considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest outlined 
above, it will need to send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so Mr C can reclaim the tax if 
he is able to.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further evidence  or representations I receive from either  party,  Im minded to uphold 
this complaint and say that Blue Motor Finance Ltd should sort things out in line with the instructions 
Ive set out above.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN576131615COPY OF MY SECOND  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that a pick-up  truck he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed by Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
The background  to this complaint is set out in my first provisional decision, a copy of which I attach 
and forms  part of this second provisional decision. 
In brief summary, I said that I intended  to uphold  this complaint.  I was minded to think there was 
enough information to persuade me that the truck wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  
to Mr C. I thought it was clear the truck hadnt performed  as it shouldve done  and that it was most  
likely supplied  with an inherent defect. 
I set out the steps that I thought  Blue Motor Finance should take to put things right, which included 
ending the hire purchase agreement and covering  the cost of repairs Mr C paid for. I also said that 
Blue Motor Finance should refund all of the monthly repayments hed made in addition  to covering 
some of the business losses incurred as a result of not being able to use the truck. I also suggested 
that Blue Motor Finance  should pay £350 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had 
caused Mr C. 
responses and developments
Mr Cs initial response 
Mr C broadly agreed with the outcome but submitted evidence of further losses. He explained that 
hes unable to move  any equipment without a truck and is having to pay extra  to have horse  muck 
removed and hay bales  delivered. He pointed  out that these additional  costs for muck and hay are 
ongoing week  on week until this matter is resolved. He also provided  an invoice to show the solicitors 
fees hed paid. 
Mr C accepted that he didnt have enough evidence  to be able to show how much his business had 
actually lost as a result of not being able to accept the two wedding  bookings. He added  that he would 
be willing to pay for the insurance  for the three months hed been able to use the truck. 
Blue Motor Finances initial response 
Blue Motor Finance disagreed that it had any responsibility to meet  Mr Cs business losses as a result 
of the faults  with the truck and referred to an exclusion  clause in the hire purchase agreement  that 
Mr C signed. 
It said it had been contractually agreed  that it wouldnt be responsible for the quality of the truck or 
whether it was fit for purpose. Blue Motor Finance said that Mr C, in his capacity as owner of his 
equestrian business, would have needed to use his own skill and judgment to determine whether the 
truck was of satisfactory quality. 
It also disagreed with the amount Id proposed  should be paid to Mr C to compensate for his business  
losses. It said that the cancellation of riding  lessons  could have been for varied reasons  and that 
Mr Cs diary entries only showed that lessons were booked and later cancelled.  It didnt consider that 
Mr C had provided enough evidence  from his ex-clients  to show that they cancelled the lessons as a 
result of his inability  to attend them at the requested times. 
Ref: DRN576131616Blue Motor Finance also felt that I shouldve  taken into account  that Mr C had been able to use the 
truck for at least some of the time hed had it. It pointed out that hed been  able to travel just over 
4,000 miles in the three months hed been able to drive  it. It suggested that this should  be taken into 
account at the rate of 0.25p per mile.  
Mr Cs further  comments 
Mr C looked at Blue Motor Finances comments. He said the broker that arranged the finance knew 
why he wanted this type of truck and that they were  made  fully aware he was purchasing for business 
use. He pointed  out that the truck is classified  as a commercial vehicle  and that it was insured under  
specialist commercial insurance. 
Mr C said that he was bewildered that Blue Motor Finance  wanted to charge  him for the use that 
hed had even though he had maintained that the truck needed to go back  just weeks after purchase 
as it was clear that something was seriously wrong. He felt that his losses had increased as a direct 
result of what he described as Blue Motor Finances intransigence and that it had made a situation 
that couldve quite easily have been  resolved amicably  much worse. He pointed out that the proof 
hed been able to provide of his losses is in line with how the equine business world works and that 
hes shown me everything that he has. 
Mr C expressed  concern  at how long matters  are taking  to be concluded.  He said it was unfair that 
Blue Motor Finance were making legal arguments when  they no doubt had access  to a legal team.  He 
said it cant be right for Blue Motor Finance to supply a truck that clearly isnt road worthy, whether 
hes a private  or a business  customer. He was concerned  that his business  may have to fold as it is 
being devastated by the continued uncertainty and mounting losses.  
my clarification with Blue Motor Finance  
I contacted Blue Motor  Finance directly to explore the new arguments it had raised  in response to my 
first provisional decision. I said that whilst  I accepted that it was legally possible to limit liability  for 
breach of implied conditions in some circumstances, I didnt think  those circumstances applied  here. 
I said that I thought the term in Blue Motor Finances hire purchase agreement that excluded its 
liability for problems with the goods was unreasonable  when taking the relevant  law in to account, 
including The Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 (UCTA).
I felt Mr C's bargaining position meant  he wasn't  in a position to individually  negotiate the term. I 
pointed out that Mr C had no knowledge  of the term or its potential  effect until I highlighted it to him. 
So I asked Blue Motor  Finance for its comments around why it thought excluding the implied 
conditions that the truck was fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality was fair or reasonable.
Blue Motor Finance responded to say the Supply of Goods (Implied  Terms) Act 1973 would  apply to 
the agreement but for the provisions of the exclusion clause in the hire purchase agreement. It 
thought that the exclusion clause  would be reasonable because:
Mr C had a choice of counter party. It said there was a wide choice  of contracting  parties 
because of the number of car finance companies  in the market,  but Mr C chose to contract with 
Blue Motor Finance and agreed to be bound by the terms of the agreement.
Blue Motor Finance said that Mr C had received  a compensating benefit  for agreeing  to the 
exclusion clause, as the charge of hire was equivalent to that of private use. It felt that it had 
provided valuable consideration and that Mr C would  benefit  unjustly  from the agreement  if the 
exclusion clause was considered to be void. 
Ref: DRN576131617It said there  was a clear  commercial reason  for the term and that it is to safeguard Blue Motor  
Finance from unforeseeable loss and damage in circumstances where an individual purports to 
enter into the agreement for personal  use and then uses it for the purposes of their business. It 
said that it was unaware of Mr Cs intention to use the truck for his business.
Blue Motor Finance said that Mr C was aware  of the exclusion clause. It felt that it is very 
prominent in the agreement  and clearly not hidden. It pointed out that by signing the agreement, 
Mr C was confirming that hed received an explanation  of its features and that hed been given  
the opportunity  to ask questions.  It highlighted  the signature  page of the agreement  to support  
this. It said that Mr Cs position that he didnt  know about  the exclusion clause and its effect is 
untenable and cannot  withstand  scrutiny.
It asked me to provide copies  of Mr Cs evidence  to support the additional  hay and mucking  out costs,  
which I did. Blue Motor  Finance hasnt  provided  any further comments or response about  these losses.  
Mr Cs updates  
Mr C stressed again  that his losses are ongoing  and asked  if Blue Motor Finance would  collect the 
truck from his driveway  as its been  sat there for a long time.  I explained that Blue Motor  Finance 
didnt agree  that it needed  to take the vehicle  back, but it might be possible for Mr C to end the hire 
purchase agreement early by voluntary termination or voluntary surrender, assuming that the 
agreement hasnt  defaulted.  
Blue Motor Finance said it disputed the validity of Mr Cs complaint in its entirety and didnt consider  it 
had any obligation  to accept  rejection  of the truck. It said that Mr C has the option to terminate the 
agreement pursuant to Section 99 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  
Mr C considered his options but decided not to terminate the agreement. 
Mr C provided further clarification around his circumstances at the time he entered into the finance 
agreement. He explained that it was the dealership that put Blue Motor  Finance on the table and there 
were no other finance providers approached.
Mr C explained that he declared the truck as being off the road in February  2018  and that hed 
cancelled the insurance for it in March  2018. He explained that he didnt think  it was economically 
viable to continue making the payments or to try and put the truck through an MOT due to the serious 
reoccurring fault. 
my provisional  findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I am not persuaded  that it would be fair for Blue 
Motor Finance to be able to rely on the clause in the hire purchase agreement  that allows it to exclude 
liability for breaches of satisfactory quality. So Ill explain  why. 
I think  that both sides broadly now accept that the truck was supplied to Mr C with faults.  Where the 
parties disagree is on the liability for those faults.  Mr Cs position is that Blue Motor  Finance is 
responsible. Blue Motor Finance disagrees. It says that the exclusion clause  in the hire purchase 
agreement has been validly executed and the effect  of the term makes  it not responsible for the quality of 
the truck provided or any of the problems  Mr C has encountered as a result of the issues with the truck. 
Ref: DRN576131618Clause 13 of the hire purchase agreement says:
If you are entering  into this Agreement  in the course of a business, or if you give us the impression 
that you are entering into this Agreement in the course of a business, or if the goods are not of a type 
ordinarily supplied for private  use or consumption,
 you must inspect  the goods  and use your own skill and judgment to decide  whether the goods are of 
satisfactory quality and fit for their intended purpose; and
 we will not be responsible for the quality of the goods or whether they are fit for their intended 
purpose, or whether they match any description  or specification.
Its not in dispute that Mr C entered into this hire purchase agreement to obtain a truck  which  was 
wholly or predominately  for his equestrian  business, which he runs as a sole trader. This means that 
he wasnt acting as a consumer when he entered into the agreement so the protections  in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 wouldnt apply  to him. 
But this doesnt  mean Mr C has no statutory rights at all. The Supply  of Goods  (Implied  Terms) Act 
1973 implies terms into hire purchase contracts. It says that the goods supplied must be of 
satisfactory quality and fit for their purpose.
A finance provider can exclude or restrict liability for breaches of the satisfactory  quality provisions  in 
the 1973  Act, but only if the exclusion clause  satisfies the reasonableness test in section 11 of the 
Unfair Contract Terms  Act 1977 (UCTA). Schedule  2 of UCTA provides guidelines for the application 
of the reasonableness  test which I have taken into account. Whether clause 13 is an unreasonable 
exclusion clause under  UCTA  is a matter that the courts  might  be asked to determine  in accordance 
with the relevant case law. But in assessing whether Blue Motor  Finance treated Mr C fairly and 
reasonably, Im not limited to the position a court might reach provided I take account of relevant law. 
To decide whether  it is fair and reasonable of Blue Motor Finance to rely on this exclusion clause in 
the contract, I have thought  about the circumstances  at the time Mr C entered  into the agreement. 
From what I have seen, Mr C isnt representing  a business that is likely to have  had an in-depth 
knowledge of how exclusion  clauses work. I accept  that he was most likely  unaware of the exclusion 
clause in the agreement  at the time that he entered into it. I say this because Mr C was very shocked 
and concerned when he understood what the implications of Blue Motors  response to my provisional 
decision were. It was apparent to me that he was hearing  this information for the very first time. 
Ive also thought  about  the strength of Mr Cs bargaining position when  he entered into the 
agreement. This wasnt an individually negotiated contract. Although Mr C is a business man, hes a 
sole trader. His operations are simple in structure and his turnover relatively modest.  I dont think  he 
wouldve been  familiar with sophisticated legal concepts or that he wouldve expected an exclusion 
clause of this nature to be in this agreement based on custom and practice. 
Blue Motor Finance has said that it was unaware  that Mr C was intending to use the truck for his 
business. Notwithstanding  the fact Mr C says that he explicitly told the credit broker this, I dont think 
its fair for Blue Motor  Finance to try to rely on the paperwork Mr C signed  to say that hed received an 
explanation of the key features and the opportunity  to ask questions. As Blue Motor Finance  has said 
it was unaware what Mr C was intending  on using the truck  for, I cant be as sure as I would need to 
be that he was told anything about different arrangements that could apply  when entering into an 
agreement for business use. It seems  more likely that no information was provided. This means  that 
Im not persuaded  that Mr C was given  fair opportunity  to take steps to mitigate that position. He may 
have decided  to obtain protection such as a warranty or other cover if hed realised  that responsibility 
for the quality of the truck was going to fall on him. 
Ref: DRN576131619And I dont think Mr C wouldve entered into the agreement expecting any major problems  to develop 
with the truck.  Although it wasnt brand new, its cash price of £16,750 was still a significant  amount of 
money and a mileage of 32,000 wasnt  excessive for a truck of this age. I think Mr C wouldve been 
expecting to be able to use the truck without any major problems for some time. It wouldnt have been 
at the forefront of his mind to be anticipating problems. 
Blue Motor Finance has said that Mr C had a choice  as to which provider he entered into a finance 
agreement with and points to the wide choice  of car finance companies in the market. But I think this 
is far too broad and open. Mr C says that he ended up entering into the agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance because it was the company put forward by the credit broking  dealer. He says that he wasnt 
given a choice of different finance providers.  I can see why Mr C wouldnt have thought to question it 
at the time.  He wasnt anticipating any restrictive  terms and most  likely wasnt made  aware of the 
possibility that they couldve  been included. So I dont think it wouldve occurred  to Mr C to ask any 
questions about how any other car finance companies  in the market wouldve  operated.  
Im also not persuaded  that Mr C understood that he was receiving any inducement or advantage  to 
the price by entering into the agreement. 
Having considered  Blue Motor Finances  comments carefully,  for the reasons Ive explained  above, 
Im minded to think  that in Mr Cs particular circumstances it is not fair or reasonable for Blue Motor  
Finance to rely on the term excluding the implied  condition that the goods under the agreement  were 
of satisfactory quality.
putting things right 
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional  decision, I think there is a fault with the truck which 
made it not of satisfactory  quality at the point it was supplied to Mr C. 
For the reasons  I have  explained above, I dont think that Blue Motor  Finance can fairly exclude 
responsibility for supplying Mr C with a truck of unsatisfactory  quality. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out what I thought would  be fair steps for Blue Motor  Finance to take 
to put things  right. 
Both Blue Motor  Finance and Mr C responded to my proposals to put things right.  Blue Motor Finance  
felt they went too far. It was concerned that Id not made any allowance for the mileage  Mr C had been 
able to do in the truck and felt that his business losses hadnt been sufficiently substantiated. Mr C didnt 
think the proposal covered all of his losses and provided further  details of costs hed incurred.
the mileage Mr C was able to do
Blue Motor Finance felt that it should be given  a credit for the mileage  that Mr C had been able to do in 
the time the truck was operational. But I dont agree that would be fair. I still dont think that Mr C had 
good, uninterrupted use of the truck, even for the three months  that Blue Motor Finance  has cited. 
Whilst Mr C was initially amicable to repairs because he wanted to get the truck back  on the road 
quickly, he also made it very clear that the truck was experiencing more  problems than anticipated. 
The truck was repaired shortly after supply in April 2017 and then underwent further and more 
significant repairs related to the same issue in June 2017. When  the symptoms  of the same problem  
appeared again in August  2017, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr C to think the truck wasnt  
performing in the way that he could fairly expect. 
Although its not disputed that Mr C was able to do just over 4,000 miles  in the limited time that he 
was able to drive  the truck, I dont agree  that it would  be fair and reasonable  for him to pay for that in 
these circumstances.  I consider this mileage was Mr C making the best of a bad situation because  
Blue Motor Finance had told him it wasnt possible to return  the truck. Blue Motor Finances proposal  
to charge Mr C 0.25p  per mile feels unfair in this particular case. 
Ref: DRN576131620Mr Cs business losses 
When considering awarding commercial losses, my starting point is that I need to see supporting 
evidence that clearly  demonstrates a close connection  between the losses being  claimed and the finance 
providers actions. In this case, I think its reasonable  to expect  that there wouldve been an impact on 
Mr Cs business as a direct  result of him being supplied  a truck that was of unsatisfactory quality. 
The difficulty  here is that Mr C hasnt been able to provide sufficient evidence  to support everything he 
says that hes lost out on. Mr C is aware that Im unable  to take into account business losses that 
cant fairly be substantiated. Hes accepted that I cant take into account  the weddings that hes turned 
down because he doesnt  have enough  to show what had been arranged. Im also not persuaded  that 
it would be fair for Blue Motor Finance to cover Mr Cs solicitors costs, as he didnt need professional 
legal advice to raise  his complaint. 
Blue Motor Finance disagree that Mr C has done enough  to show that the riding lessons were 
cancelled as a direct result  of him not having access to a truck.  It felt he needed to provide further 
evidence directly  from his ex-clients  that they cancelled the lessons as a result of his inability to attend 
them at the requested times.  It also felt that he couldve done more to mitigate the losses, either by 
rearranging the lessons or making alternative arrangements. When I spoke  to Mr C about  this, he 
explained that he was able to continue with some lessons  because he could get there in the smaller 
car hed bought. But he wasnt able to continue with lessons that required  him to bring specialised 
equipment, nor was he able to continue with the lessons that took place  in a field or on a farm rather 
than at stables.  Mr C says that the evidence from his appointment diaries is legitimate and in line with 
the way the equine business world works. As I highlighted in my provisional decision,  the dates  on 
which the blocks of lessons are cancelled do coincide  with the problems with the truck. So Im still 
minded to think that Mr Cs estimation that he lost approximately £1,925 as a result  of riding  lessons 
that he wasnt  able to get to isnt unreasonable. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr C provided two simple invoices to show hed paid 
increased costs  for the delivery of hay and for mucking out. I provided copies  of these  invoices to Blue 
Motor Finance for its consideration but it never specifically responded  to say whether  it felt they were 
sufficient. It maintained its position that it wasnt responsible for providing a truck of satisfactory 
quality at all, meaning that it didnt feel that it needed  to meet any of Mr Cs losses. 
I asked Mr C about the invoices. He said the people that these services are being  provided to him by 
small sole traders that operate in the same  industry as him and in a similar way. He explained that 
these invoices  were  the best that he could present  to evidence his ongoing weekly  costs. The sole 
traders have signed the invoices  and provided contact details, suggesting that they would be willing to 
verify the expense if required. Mr C re-iterated that his business is cash  based and he doesnt always  
receive receipts from all suppliers. He explains that he records these  costs and informs his 
accountant, which is standard practice. 
Looking at this in the round,  I dont  think Mr Cs losses in relation to the hay delivery  and the mucking 
out are overstated  or unreasonable. Hes provided  as much evidence  to support these specific costs 
as he can and his suppliers  are willing  to verify the expense.  
In my first provisional decision, I said that Blue Motor Finance should  refund the insurance for the 
small car Mr C purchased from when Mr C first insured it to the date of settlement  of this dispute. 
I thought this was fair and reasonable on the basis that Mr C was paying to insure  the truck  and the 
small car simultaneously  when he wouldnt have needed to do so if the truck  had been of satisfactory  
quality. However,  Mr C cancelled the insurance for the truck in March 2018. As Mr C acquired the 
small car in November 2017, the period where he was paying for two insurance policies  is much 
shorter than first thought.  With this in mind,  I think it would be fair for Blue Motor  Finance to cover the 
cost of the insurance Mr C paid for the small  car from when he first insured it to when he cancelled  
the insurance  for the truck. 
Ref: DRN576131621To summarise, I am currently minded to say that a fair way to put things  right would  be for Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd to:
collect the truck at no cost to Mr C
end the hire purchase agreement with Mr C with nothing  further owed by him
refund the £250 deposit  Mr C effectively  paid by part exchanging his previous vehicle when he 
entered into the hire purchase agreement. It must pay interest  on this refund at the rate of 8% 
simple per year. The interest  should be calculated from the date the deposit was paid until the 
date of settlement.  
Mr C has provided a bank statement to show he paid £50 directly to the dealership to hold the 
truck. As Ive not seen anything to show that this was refunded  to him or used to reduce the 
purchase price, I agree  that this is a consequential  loss that Blue Motor Finance  should  
reimburse Mr C for, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date it was paid until 
the date of settlement.  
If Mr C paid any acceptance fees or purchase activation fees, Blue Motor  Finance should refund  
them. It should add interest at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The interest should be calculated 
from the date Mr C paid the fees to the date of settlement.
reimburse Mr C for the £940 payment he made towards the repairs plus 8% simple interest from 
the date Mr C made the payment to the date of settlement.
refund all of the monthly repayments Mr C made. Blue Motor  Finance must  pay interest at the 
8% simple per year.  The interest should  be calculated  from the date each repayment was made 
until the date of settlement. 
remove  all mention of the agreement from Mr Cs credit file
pay Mr C £1925 for the riding  lessons  his diaries  show were lost as a result of him not being able 
to get there 
cover the weekly costs  Mr C has incurred for the delivery of the hay and the mucking  out. He has 
provided evidence to show that he has been  charged £20 per week to have two bales of hay 
delivered and £40 a week to have manure removed  from his yard. Mr C should provide Blue 
Motor Finance with a breakdown of the affected  weeks countersigned by the sole traders that 
provide these services  to him. 
cover the cost of the insurance for the small car Mr C purchased  from when  Mr C first insured it 
to the date when Mr C cancelled the insurance for the truck. It should  pay interest at the rate of 
8% simple per year from the date Mr C made each payment  to the date of settlement
pay Mr C £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Blue Motor Finance  Finances 
lack of correspondence  at pivotal times caused him
If Blue Motor  Finance considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest outlined 
above, it will need to send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so Mr C can reclaim the tax if 
he is able to.
my second  provisional decision
My second  provisional decision, subject to any final comments I receive from either party, is that Im 
intending to uphold this complaint. To put things right, I am minded to say that Blue Motor Finance  Ltd 
should follow  the instructions that Ive set out above.
Ive put a date for reply  of two weeks from 26 March to move the complaint forward. If either Mr C or 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd requires additional time, they can let me know and Ill consider any 
reasonable request.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5761316