K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from Close  
Brothers Limited (CB).
background
In November 2018 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was 8 years old and had 
covered 49,602 miles.
On the day he collected  the car Mr M noticed that the engine  management light had 
illuminated. He returned  the car to the dealership who carried out a reset  and said the light 
had illuminated  because the car had been  standing for a long time.
A short time later the engine management light illuminated again. The dealership  reset it 
again. However, it illuminated again  in December 2018.
In January 2019 the car was returned  to the dealership. Mr R has said he was told by a 
mechanic that the DPF filter was blocked  which had caused the engine management light to 
illuminate. The dealership also diagnosed a problem with the gearbox and arranged  for this 
to be replaced. The car was returned  to Mr R in mid January.
Mr R has said that the engine management  light remained illuminated and the also noticed  
the gearbox light flickering. Three days after the car was returned to him Mr R experienced a 
fault with the gearbox whilst driving and had to pull over. The car wouldnt change gear so it 
was recovered  to Mr Rs home.
Mr R complained to CB, who arranged  for an independent inspection  to be carried out. The 
inspection found  that the gearbox was stuck in park mode and that the key was difficult  to 
remove from the ignition. The report concluded  that the car couldnt have been in this 
condition at the point of supply.
In its final response to Mr Rs complaint, CB said that because the fault wasnt  present at the 
point of supply  it wasnt prepared to accept a rejection or pay for repairs.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought there was evidence to show  that the 
engine management  light had remained illuminated despite attempted  repairs  by the 
dealership. She also said the dealership had attempted to repair the gearbox in January 
2019 by replacing it but that the gearbox  was still faulty. She recommended that Mr R be 
allowed to reject the car.
CB didnt  agree. It said the complaint which had been made to them only related to the faulty 
gearbox and not the engine management light. It said the independent  inspection  had found 
no fault with the engine  management light and that this wasnt  a basis to reject the car. In 
relation to the gearbox CB said the independent  inspection had found that the fault would 
not have been present at the point of supply.
Since the investigator issue a her view Mr R has explained that he has been supplied with 
another car on finance as he needs  a car to get to work and his old car is till at the 
Ref: DRN54139272dealership awaiting  repair. He says that as a result  of paying for two cars hes experiencing 
financial difficulties .In November 2019  Mr Rs direct debit was returned and a notice of 
default was issued by CB.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because CB has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement  theres  an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable taking into account  all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst 
other things)  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second 
hand car, such as that supplied to Mr R, to have  a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent defect rather 
than issues caused  by general  wear  and tear. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault occurs within the first 6 months, theres  
a presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the 
business can show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If 
the repair isnt successful the consumer  can reject the car. After 6 months  the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present  at the point 
of supply. 
Mr R has said that he experienced issues with the engine management light as soon  as he 
collected the car. Hes also said that the dealership attempted to resolve this by resetting the 
car more  than once  but that the light continued to illuminate intermittently. But it was the 
gearbox issue which was the subject of Mr Rs initial complaint to CB and I think this is the 
issue to focus on. Thats  not to say Im ignoring  the issues with the engine management 
light. But theres no evidence to suggest  that an illuminated engine management light is of 
itself a fault and it wasnt  something which was addressed in the independent  inspection.
Mr R and CB disagree about whether  the car had an inherent fault. In order  to reach  a 
decision I need to look at all of the available  evidence  and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether  the car is of satisfactory  quality.  
The issue  with the gearbox light flickering  began in January 2019, which  is within the first 6 
months, so the presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply applies. CB has 
relied on the independent inspection report, which says the fault with the gearbox  (which is 
now stuck in park mode) couldnt  have been  present at the point of supply.
On one analysis  its self evident that a car which has covered 3,406 miles since  the point of 
supply couldnt  have been stuck  in park mode at the point of supply. So I understand why 
the engineer has said that the car wouldnt have been in this condition at the inception  of 
finance. But bearing in mind that the onus is on CB to rebut the presumption that the fault 
was present or developing  at the point of supply, I dont think  the engineer has provided a 
persuasive explanation as to why the fault with the gearbox couldnt  have  been  developing 
over time, leading to an eventual seizure of the gearbox.  This is important because Mr R 
previously reported  the gearbox light flickering  and difficulties in trying  to change  gear.
Ref: DRN54139273Ive also taken into account that the gearbox was repaired  in January 2019, which suggests 
that there  was a fault at that point. The business  is allowed one attempt at repair  but in this 
case its clear  that this didnt rectify the fault because the gearbox is still faulty.
Ive thought about whether the gearbox  issue could  be due to wear  and tear. The mileage on 
the car isnt very high and I dont think a reasonable person would expect to replace a 
gearbox or experience serious  issues  with a gearbox with a car of this mileage. So I have 
concerns about  the durability of the car because I wouldnt expect a gearbox to fail 
prematurely like this.
On balance Im not persuaded  by the engineers opinion. It overlooks  the fact the there has 
already been a repair to the gearbox  and that theres still a fault which is causing the car to 
be stuck in park. Taking everything  into consideration I think its more likely that there was an 
inherent fault with the gearbox  which hasnt  been resolved by the attempt at repair. Under 
the relevant legislation  Mr R is entitled to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Close Brothers Limited  mist:
Allow Mr R to reject  the car and unwind the finance  agreement
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr R
Refund any deposit paid together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Refund 20% of Mr Rs payments to reflect impaired use
Refund the costs  of recovery upon  providing receipt
Pay compensation of £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Rs credit  file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5413927