K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc will not refund  some disputed  transactions.
background
Mr Ms credit card was used to make some transactions in a bar whilst he was on holiday.   
He says he did not make these transactions and neither did he authorise them. However, he 
does recall being in the bar but says he arrived there after an evening of drinking  with his 
friends.  He does not recall making any payments whilst  there and the next thing  he does 
remember is being back at his hotel the next morning. 
Bank of Scotland have said it sent a text message to Mr M when his credit card was first 
used in the bar.  The transaction was declined but the text was responded to by Mr M saying 
he recognised  the transaction.   All four subsequent transactions  were then allowed.
So, Mr Ms complaint was not upheld.  Bank  of Scotland said his genuine card and PIN was 
used on each occasion. It is therefore holding  him liable.
When Mr M came to this service, our investigator did not uphold  his complaint  so Mr M 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be upholding this complaint.  My  reasons  for doing so are very much the same  as the 
investigators.
Generally speaking, Bank of Scotland can hold Mr M liable for these transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he made or authorised them.   But the 
relevant rules say that the use of his card and PIN alone is not sufficient to show authority  
Mr M needed to have consented to the transactions also.
So, as I am satisfied from the evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were  used, I need 
to decide whether he consented to the payments and therefore, whether it is reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to hold his liable.
I think the strongest  evidence of consent  comes  from the text message which  was sent back  
from Mr Ms phone in which he confirms  he recognised a blocked transaction.
Prior to his credit card being used,  Mr Ms debit card had been  used  to attempt two 
transactions  both of which had been  blocked.  The bank  is not able to now tell us why they 
were blocked but what they can say is that it was not due to insufficient funds.
I think its more likely that the debit card transactions were  blocked  because of the unusual  
activity  because  when Mr M switched to using his credit card, the first two transactions 
were blocked too. And it was only when Bank of Scotland  received a response to its 
message that the other transactions  were allowed to go through.
When Mr M first spoke  to the bank the next morning, he did not accept either  receiving or 
responding to the text  but during the call, he checks  his phone  and realises that the 
Ref: DRN51086202messages are there.   He then says he may have made the first one but not the subsequent 
ones.
Im satisfied that Mr M authorised these transactions.  He might not recall  doing so but I think 
he did.  Mr M thinks he was drugged by someone in the club  and he has referred this 
service to news articles which he has found  online about similar  cases.
My jurisdiction does not cover any criminal  investigation (if there is to be one).  My role is to 
decide whether  Bank of Scotland has done  anything wrong in holding  Mr M liable for the 
these transactions.   Based on what I have seen,  I dont think that it has done anything 
wrong.
In the circumstances, Mr Ms complaint is not upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5108620