K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc allowed  fraudsters  to access  his accounts and then made it 
difficult for him to gain access  himself.  He would like to be compensated for this.
background 
In October  2018, money was transferred from Mr Hs bank account into his credit card 
account leaving the credit  card account in credit.  An attempt was then made  to transfer  that 
credit balance elsewhere  but that was blocked.
Mr H contacted TSB on the same day and advised  that he did not recognise these 
transactions.  TSB  placed  a block  on the accounts  so that it could investigate.
The transactions were  reversed and Mr Hs account restored by 9th October 2018  a week  
after they were made.  TSB said it had lifted the blocks on the current  and credit  account.
Mr H then complained  about  the fraudulent access to his accounts and the service he 
subsequently received  from TSB.   TSB did not provide him with a final response   but did 
offer referral  rights for Mr H to bring his complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think TSB had done  anything wrong in relation to blocking the 
accounts  she thought  this was fair in the circumstances.  But  she did say it should pay Mr 
H £100 for saying  it had lifted  the block on his credit  card in October 2018 but in fact had not.  
Mr H reports he was unable to use his credit card in April 2019.
Mr H did not agree with the investigators  view and so the matter  was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says the blocking of his accounts led to him suffering from financial difficulties.  He said 
he wasnt able to access his account  for two weeks and had to borrow  money to provide for 
his family.  But I can see that TSB removed the block on his account so that he could 
withdraw £1000 on 6th October  so I dont  agree  Mr H was without money.
And I would expect TSB to place a block on the accounts until it had concluded  that Mr Hs 
accounts were no longer  susceptible to fraudsters  so I cant  see that it acted unreasonably 
here either.
Theres also nothing to suggest that direct  debits did not leave Mr Hs account during the 
period it was blocked and nothing to suggest  that Mr Hs address details had not been 
updated to his correct address.  Mr H says TSB was writing  to him at an old address.  From 
what I have seen, I cannot agree with him.
I accept that the block on the credit card should have been lifted in October 2018 and that 
this caused further unnecessary inconvenience  for Mr H in April 2019.  For this, I think  the 
award of £100  is a fair one.
Ref: DRN53167812my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  For the poor service  received by Mr H, TSB 
Bank plc should  pay him £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5316781