K820x#14complaint
Ms S1 and Ms S2 complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  their 
motor insurance policy  from the start (voided it) and declined a claim for the theft of Ms S2s 
car.
background
Ms S2 took out a policy with Advantage and Ms S1 was a named driver.  Ms S2s car was 
stolen. Advantage  voided the policy and declined  the claim as it said Ms S2s correct  
convictions and a previous claim hadnt been declared. It also said Ms S2 wasnt the cars 
main user. Advantage  refunded the policy premiums. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
previous claim wasnt in Ms S1s or Ms S2s names so they neednt  have declared it. But he 
thought incorrect  information had been  provided about Ms S2s speeding convictions. He 
thought that if this had been correctly  stated then Advantage wouldnt have offered cover. So 
he thought it was entitled to void the policy and decline the claim. He didnt consider the 
issue of who was the main user of the car. 
Ms S2 replied that she had disclosed her points but she thought  these had been  
summarised on the Statement of Insurance. She asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Advantage has accepted  that the previous  claim it thought was undisclosed 
wasnt made by either Ms S1 or Ms S2. So Ill not consider that further. Nor have I 
considered the issue of who the main driver was as Advantage hasnt relied  on that to void 
the policy and decline the claim. But I will consider the non-disclosure of Ms S2s previous 
motoring convictions.  
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
Ms S2 took out her policy through an online comparison  site. She was asked if she had any 
motoring convictions  within  the past five years. I can see that guidance was provided to help 
answer this question correctly. And she was then asked to give details of her convictions. 
These specified the type (obtainable from her driving licence or DVLA), date, fine and points. 
A prompt for points advises that this should be for each  conviction and not the total on the 
licence. So I think a clear  question was asked about  Ms S2s motoring convictions in the 
past five years. And I think it was for her to reasonably provide an accurate answer. 
Ms S2 had two SP30 convictions in 2017.  These were within the five years asked about,  so I 
think she should have  disclosed both of them. 
Ref: DRN59757042Ms S2 said she correctly  entered two SP30 convictions with 3 points each for two dates onto 
the online site. But she said these were then amalgamated on the Statement of Insurance  as 
one SP30 with 6 points dated  a month earlier  than they were awarded. 
But Advantage has shown evidence from the comparison site that Ms S2 entered one SP30 
with 6 points for the policy she purchased. So I think Ms S2s recollection  is incorrect.  I think 
the incorrect date for the conviction  on the Statement of Insurance  should also have alerted 
her to the error. But I cant see that she then corrected these mistakes.  
Advantage has provided us with evidence from its underwriters that it wouldnt have provided  
cover if the correct information,  that Ms S2 had two SP30 speeding convictions within the 
previous five years, had been provided.  
So I think Ms S2 was asked a clear question about previous motoring offences. I think  she 
didnt take reasonable care to answer this question correctly. I think if shed given  the correct  
answer then cover wouldnt have been provided.  So, under the relevant legislation, I think 
Advantage was entitled to void the policy  and decline  the claim.  I can see that Advantage 
has refunded Ms S2s premiums, which I think is fair and reasonable as I cant  see that its 
shown that her non-disclosure was deliberate.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S1 and Ms S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5975704