K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) lent to her without assessing affordability and that she was persuaded to 
break her old finance agreement.
background
In July 2017 Ms L took out a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF to fund a car purchase. 
The outstanding balance  on her finance agreement,  for the car she was trading in, was 
added to the sum being financed and her old agreement  was settled. But Ms L says that 
when BPF agreed  to advance her the credit they didnt make sure it was affordable for her. 
She said her income wasnt guaranteed  and was sporadic  in nature as she was a full time 
student.
BPF said they did make an assessment of affordability at the time. They  said theyd 
considered the information Ms L had provided about her income and noted she lived with her 
parents and had credit  outgoings of about  £18 a month on cards and £149  on an existing  
motor finance  agreement.  As this finance agreement was being settled the additional debt 
would be about  £22 a month.  They noted  that although it was clear  Ms L was a student at 
the time,  she was receiving some income  from employers  as well and occasional pocket 
money and additional credits  were being  paid to her account. They didnt think there was 
evidence to suggest the loan was provided  irresponsibly  and they thought their affordability 
checks had been  reasonable  and proportionate.  
But Ms L was dissatisfied  with their response  and she therefore referred her complaint to this 
service. Our adjudicator didnt think there was evidence that the loan was unaffordable or 
that the checks BPF had completed  were  inadequate. She made further  enquiries  with BPF 
and understood  that they would have used a credit  scoring algorithm to assess affordability.  
This algorithm reviewed several  factors including information from credit bureaus.  She 
thought the checks were  reasonable in the circumstances and she noted Ms Ls account 
was currently fully up to date and thought this supported the view that the credit had been 
affordable.
She went on to consider  whether it was fair for the balance of Ms Ls previous loan to be 
transferred and her old agreement cancelled. She explained that it was Ms Ls decision to 
trade in her old vehicle  and if she wanted  to keep  her existing vehicle with her existing  motor  
finance agreement  she was free to do so. She didnt think  BPF had done anything wrong in 
this regard.
But Ms L did and she therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms L but I agree with the adjudicators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN55358052Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed Ms Ls bank  statements in the period prior to her application and I dont think 
theres evidence  that she couldnt afford  the increased indebtedness  of £22 per month. She 
was generally not using  much, if any, of her overdraft facility and her repayments had been 
met on time,  each month, against  the car finance agreement she had. Her income stream, 
whilst varied, was regularly around  £900  per month and I think there was enough disposable 
income to afford the additional  outgoings.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether BPF carried out proportionate checks, 
and at what information they had been given about Ms Ls financial circumstances.
The methods BPF used  to establish  affordability  were for them to decide but the practices  
and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be 
proportionate to the amount of money  being  requested.
I can see that BPF used  an algorithm  to assess Ms Ls credit  worthiness. They  also 
considered that shed  told the garage  she earned  about £900 per month. Theyd assumed 
an income of £11,000 per annum and that seems  to have been about right and from a 
review of Ms Ls bank  statements it doesnt appear  likely  that anything  untoward would have 
been discovered from BPFs enquiries with the credit bureaus:  Ms Ls account was being 
managed well and payments  appear to have  been  made on time to her outstanding 
creditors.
So Im persuaded  that Ms L could afford  the repayments on the finance agreement  that was 
approved with BPF and that their affordability  assessment  had been  reasonable and 
effective. I note that Ms L has managed  to keep up with repayments and that supports this 
finding. 
Ms L was at liberty to retain  her original finance agreement but chose to terminate it and 
trade in her car. She could have kept it and maintained her old agreement  so I dont think  it 
would be fair to suggest BPF have been  unreasonable here.
Ref: DRN55358053my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5535805