K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the legal  fees associated with a remortgage to 
Nationwide Building  Society. They want Nationwide to reimburse the solicitors fees they had 
to pay for a transfer  of equity.
background 
Mr S owned  a property  in his sole name,  mortgaged  to another lender. In December 2018 an 
application was made via Nationwides  website for a new mortgage. The application was in 
the joint names of Mr and Mrs S, and I am told that the intention was that Mrs S would be 
added to the title to the property as well.
Nationwide offered an incentive  of either  £500  cashback or to cover  the cost of standard  
legal fees. 
Solicitors were  instructed to act for Nationwide and Mrs and Mrs S. They wrote to Mr and 
Mrs S explaining  that there would be extra fees for the transfer  of equity. Mr S queried  this 
with Nationwide  and was told (incorrectly)  that adding Mrs S to the legal title (transfer of 
equity) was included in basic  costs  and so should be included  in the free legals.
Mr and Mrs S had to pay the solicitors  costs and complained to Nationwide.  After listening to 
the call, Nationwide acknowledged that it had made an error and that these costs  werent  
included. It offered compensation of £150.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to us where it was considered  by an 
investigator. He noted that Nationwide  had acknowledged it had made an error when it had 
told Mr S on the telephone that the legal fees covered the transfer  of equity. 
Mr S, whos dealt with the complaint throughout, didnt agree with the investigators  findings. 
In summary,  he says that he was aware that there were  legal  costs,  which  is why he queried 
it over the phone.  He said that if hed known the transfer of equity wasnt  included  in the free 
legals incentive, he wouldnt have added his wife to the title to the property.. 
provisional decision
On 8 August  2019 I issued a provisional  decision in which I explained why I thought  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I was satisfied that, but for Nationwides  assurance to Mr S that 
the transfer of equity  was included in the free legals, he wouldnt have gone  ahead with it. 
So the only reason the fee was incurred was due to Nationwides incorrect  assurance that it 
would be covered in the free legals.
In addition to the £150  already  offered  by Nationwide for trouble and upset, I thought 
Nationwide should  reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the legal  fees of £294 for the transfer of 
equity.
Mr and Mrs S accepted the provisional decision. Nationwide  said it had nothing further to 
add.
Ref: DRN53997692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the file and revisited my 
provisional decision. Having done  so, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision.
Often its not possible to know  exactly what someone would have  done  differently had a 
mistaken not been made by the business. But here Im satisfied that, if Nationwide hadnt 
confirmed over the phone that the cost of the transfer of equity was included in the free 
legals, Mr S and Mrs S wouldnt have gone  ahead with it. Instead  Mr S would have applied  
for the mortgage  in his sole name.
Given this, Im satisfied that the complaint should  be upheld and that Nationwide  should  
reimburse the legal  fees of £294  and pay compensation of £150  for trouble and upset. In his 
response to the investigators findings Mr S made  some remarks about the Financial 
Ombudsman Service that were somewhat heated. I trust that my review  of this complaint 
assuages his concerns  about the impartiality of the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement,  Nationwide Building Society must reimburse  Mr and Mrs Ss legal 
fees for the transfer of equity in the sum of £294  and pay compensation of £150  for trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5399769