K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss W took out the policy with a loan in 1998.  The loan was secured against  Miss Ws 
home and she paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss W cant  remember how the policy  was sold. Halifax says the policy  was sold during a 
meeting and has provided a copy of its records which show it was sold in a branch so Ive 
treated it as a branch sale.  
However the policy was sold, Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps  to ensure that     
Miss W was made aware she had a choice in buying  the PPI. Miss W says the PPI was 
added without her consent. Halifax hasnt been  able to provide any of the paperwork Miss W 
completed at the time  which isnt surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. 
So Ive considered Miss W comments along with what  we know about how Halifax sold this 
type of PPI to decide whats most  likely to have  happened.  From what  we know,  I think  
Halifax normally made it clear to customers they had a choice about the PPI and got their 
agreement to it. What Miss W has told us in itself isnt enough to make  me think  Halifax 
didnt follow  its normal procedures here. 
So overall, I think its more likely  Halifax made Miss W aware she had a choice about  buying 
the policy. And she chose  to take it. 
Miss W says Halifax didnt  recommend  the policy to her. Halifax  says it did recommend the 
policy. I dont think it matters whether Halifax recommended the policy or not because I think 
it was right for Miss W  based on her circumstances. I say this because:
Miss W was eligible  for the policy
There was nothing  to stop Miss W claiming the full benefit of the policy if she needed to 
- such as any known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. 
Miss W says she wouldve got sick pay benefits  and redundancy pay from her employer 
as well some savings.  The PPI wouldve covered  her loan repayments for up to 12 
months if she was made redundant. And for up to 60 months if she was too unwell to 
Ref: DRN54194282work. This it wouldve allowed her to use any employer benefits and her savings  to 
cover other everyday living expenses.  
Ive noted Miss Ws comments about the fact her parents wouldve helped out if she was 
unable to make her repayments. I dont doubt  her parents would have wanted to help, 
but peoples circumstances change. So this help cant  be guaranteed. 
Miss W was taking on a significant  and long term financial commitment, which  was 
secured on her home,  on her own. So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been  serious for her.  And I think having  the security that her repayments  
couldve been  made if she was unable to work  wouldve  been important to Miss W. 
As we dont  have  any documents  from the time of sale, I dont know if Halifax  made the 
cost of the policy clear  to Miss W. But looking at the information I have about her 
circumstances, I havent seen anything to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for her. And 
she couldve cancelled it at any time, without further cost, if her situation  changed  or she 
no longer wanted to pay for it. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss W, Halifax  shouldve also taken  steps to give 
her clear  information about the policy so she could  decide  if she wanted it. I dont know  what  
steps Halifax took to do this and its possible some things werent explained as clearly  as they 
shouldve been.  But I dont think clearer information  wouldve  changed Miss Ws decision. I think 
shed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons  I think the PPI was suitable  for her.  
So I dont  think Miss W has lost out from anything Halifax mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5419428