K822xcomplaint
Mr C and Mrs S complain  that Interactive Investor  Services Limited wrongly advised them  to 
cancel a cash withdrawal  which  led to them selling shares they would not otherwise have 
done. They  also say there was a fundamental flaw in Interactives payment systems which 
displayed contradictory  information. 
background 
Mr C said that in November 2018  Interactive misled him about a £20,000  withdrawal request 
from his ISA account which led them to sell shares from their joint account to avoid a 
potential overdraft on their ISA, something  which is not permissible. Further,  that on 3 
December 2018  their ISA account showed  a £20,000  overdraft  which locked them  out of 
dealing, causing  considerable  distress. This contradicted the message on their manage 
payments page  which showed that the payment had been  cancelled. They had a car 
purchase due on 4 December 2018 and panicked as they didnt  know  if theyd have to 
cancel this.
He said that when they complained there was a lack of empathy, were stonewalled and their 
complaint initially  ignored.  He spent over five hours in dealing with this matter until a 
complaints handler  agreed to review everything.
Given this, they said that the £100 compensation offered was not adequate and didnt reflect 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the wrong  advice. Nor did it compensate them  for 
being forced to sell shares and then reinvest  the money at a different point in the market. 
This opportunity cost amounted  to in excess of £1,000. Mr C also said that he asked for 
transcripts of the calls but were sent encrypted CDs and it took time to unlock them and 
transcribe the contents.
Interactive rejected most  of Mr C and Mrs Ss complaint points but agreed that the initial call 
handler couldve dealt  with things better. Hence  its offer of just £100.
An adjudicator at this service  broadly  agreed  with Interactives assessment of what had 
happened. He said:
Mr C and Mrs S were  non-advised,  execution-only clients so the onus was on them to make 
their own decisions when  buying and selling shares.  When Mr C rang on 29 November 
2018, he told the representative that hed diarised two bank transfers,  one from his ISA and 
one from his trading  account for the following Monday. She was able to see that he had 
trades which would settle  on Monday. Mr C then told the representative that the transfer was 
predicated on the two trades settling on Monday and asked if that was a problem. She said: 
cash will be available by close of business  on Monday at the very latest...
Mr C wanted to know when the cash would hit his account. The representative confirmed 
she could see that a non-urgent cash transfer had been logged  at 9.30am but then said:
because the cash isnt available  Mr C youll probably receive  an email from our payments 
department to let you know  the payment has been rejected. She said hed have to wait for 
the cash to settle  before  funds could  be transferred  out. The representative said she could 
log a forward dated cash withdrawal for to future date it for Monday, but it would probably 
be Tuesday.
Ref: DRN53671212He then told the representative:  Ive also done  one (a non-urgent transfer request) on my 
trading account  so if you tell me thats  been rejected as well Im pretty unhappy.  She 
confirmed she could  see the other  request.  The representative put Mr C on hold to consult 
the payments  department and then said: Ive spoken to our payment department, what  they 
said (was) its all dependent on when it settles,  it could settle on time,  it may not settle  on 
time. If you like I can log another  request for Tuesday morning just in case  it doesnt settle 
until close of business
Mr C said no and asked her to check the trading account in joint names  for which hed 
diarised a £10,000 transfer.  She confirmed that the trades  on that account were also due to 
settle on Monday  and again cautioned  this could be up to the close  of business: We say itll 
settle at close of business, thats 5.30 at the very latest. Assuming they do settle before, they 
may do, they may not.
After hed asked  about the closing cash balance on his account, she said that one option 
would be to log an urgent  cash balance once  the trades had settled. She said that as long as 
this was done before 2pm, funds could hit his account on the same day. But thered be a £15 
charge for this.
The adjudicator noted that it was nine minutes into the call when  Mr C instructed her to move 
the payment to the 4th, to make that an urgent payment and that hed pay the £15 fee. Shed 
said this would come  to £30 across  both accounts and he responded: No I only want the 
£10,000... Ill let the rejection of the £20,000 go through at the moment because actually 
when I went to my bank this morning  I had more cash  in my bank than I thought I had. The 
representative then summarised that he wanted £10,000 from the joint trading account for 4 
December 2018.
He also noted  that the representative  didnt say that Mr Cs withdrawal requests had already 
been rejected  but instead said that hed probably  receive an email to that effect. As such, he 
felt the caveats shed given   having  consulted the payments department   were 
reasonable. Overall,  he felt she had made  Mr C aware of the risks and so it was up to him to 
decide what action  to take.
He said that when Mr C made the call hed already arranged for sales on the trading account 
along with a £10,000 bank transfer,  so he wasnt persuaded that Interactive was responsible 
for trading decisions hed otherwise not have made.
While Mr C said that he had a further  £10,000  withdrawal from the trading account for
6 December 2018, he noted  that during the call hed said hed decided  to draw on more 
funds for the scheduled car purchase from his bank account.  If that later changed,  that would 
be another personal decision and not something for which wed hold the business 
responsible. He said the second withdrawal of £10,000  occurred  after 4 December 2018 
which is when Mr C had said the car purchase  was scheduled for; also a decision of his 
choosing.
.
He acknowledged  that the representative had failed  to send through a cancellation of the 
£20,000 withdrawal  from Mr Cs ISA. But, overall, he felt Interactive had responded 
appropriately to Mr Cs subsequent query, confirmed his account had been updated and the 
£20,000 had been re-credited, as well as identifying the cash  balance on his ISA and 
offering to place trades over the phone at web rates.
Ref: DRN53671213The adjudicator noted that Interactive had explained that on the day a request is due to be 
processed, an account will be debited at around  07:40 but if there are insufficient funds, the 
payment would be held in rejected status.  An automated notification would be issued  to the 
customer either by email or letter once the system had automatically  updated  the account to 
reflect the rejected payment and that this was usually completed by 15:30  the same  day. 
During that period, the payment status on the manage payments  section would show as 
payment not sent.  He also said hes been  sent a copy of this message on Mr Cs account.
He also noted  that while there was an electronic system and manual spreadsheets, 
something Mr C was unhappy about,  this was something the business was entitled to do and 
was not something  the ombudsman service could  intervene in.
He felt that by the time Mr C spoke to the second  representative on 3 December 2018 he did 
get the right assurance that there hadnt  been a withdrawal from his ISA. He accepted that 
Mr Cs account had been frozen for a few hours  but said he couldnt have any certainty  
about what trading  decisions would have  been during that period  or if theyd have been 
profitable.
He noted that Interactive had offered £100  in compensation for not rejecting the withdrawal 
and was now offering  to refund the £15 urgent withdrawal fee for the £10,000  because  the 
original withdrawal request would  have been successful if it hadnt been cancelled.  He 
considered this additional offer to be reasonable. He said that this service  couldnt  oblige a 
business to produce  transcripts  of calls and encryption was standard practice now to 
preserve sensitive personalised data.
Mr C disagreed, and said:
It is clear from the first call that the share sales hed already made  werent 
guaranteed to clear; all his actions flowed from this
The advisor was wrong to say that he shouldnt have made  the ISA withdrawal 
request in case it did not settle in time; in five years hed never seen a withdrawal not 
go through in these  circumstances
So he was given  wrong information  as judged by the business Payments and 
Settlements procedure
If this was advice,  was the individual concerned  qualified to give advice?
The ISA withdrawal was not cancelled before December 3, and he did not receive an 
email to that effect
The adjudicator  had no evidence on which to conclude the cancellation  had occurred 
before this date
He was confronted  with a near £20,000  overdraft on December 3 because  the 
withdrawal had not been cancelled
Apart from the worry about  having to find this money, and cancel his car purchase,  
separate pages of his online ISA account were showing contradictory  information
He did not want to sell the various shares amounting  to £13k plus but he did this 
because he was told the earlier sales might not clear in time for the ISA withdrawal
This is the opportunity cost he is looking for compensation  in relation to
In essence  he was given incorrect advice which led him to cancel a diarised  
withdrawal; this meant he had to reinvest  money hed just obtain  from the sales
Ref: DRN53671214my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons. As such, I do not believe 
it is necessary to repeat his account of the various exchanges and his interpretation of what, 
if anything, Interactive could have done  better. I agree with Mr C that this complaint centres 
on the initial information he was given in the first phone call and I dont accept that this was 
clearly wrong. I think he was given an understandable warning that the timing of the share 
sales and ISA withdrawal  could, in theory,  create  a problem  with his ISA account. Although,  
as Interactive admits, it was very unlikely that the share money  wouldnt be available in time 
for the ISA withdrawal  to be processed, this was a possibility  and I think it was not 
unreasonable for the call handler to state this.
I also accept this was a complicated  picture  and that the call handler had to go and seek 
further advice  but, in my view, she provided  a reasonable response given her understanding 
of the situation.  While Mr C raises the question of whether this constitutes  advice, with all 
the regulatory implications of this term, I am satisfied that the call handler  simply gave him 
factual information  rather than advice.
I also share the adjudicators view about the calls overall and Interactives  efforts  to clarify  
things which, in my view, were generally  helpful and reasonable.  Ultimately I dont believe it 
was responsible for any losses Mr C may have suffered as a result of unnecessarily  selling 
shares to cover an overdraft on his ISA which did not materialise. I note that Mr C was given 
an opportunity to trade during a later call but did not take this offer up at the time.
Finally, I fully understand Mr Cs concern and worry at seeing an apparent negative balance  
on his account,  which turned  out to be wrong, but I am satisfied that Interactive responded to 
his query  promptly and satisfactorily. I accept that the information on its systems appeared 
somewhat confusing but I think  it clarified  things quickly and appropriately.
my final decision
I only uphold this complaint to the extent that Interactive did not offer the additional  £15 until 
this complaint was brought  to this service. I therefore instruct  Interactive Investor Services  
Limited to pay £115.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5367121