K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  a single-premium 
payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2000  around  the same  time as taking out a personal loan. 
The loan included an amount to pay for the policy.  Although  the loan was in their joint 
names, the policy only covered Mr W.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because:
Although Mr and Mrs W say that they werent aware that they had PPI with the loan, I 
think that they knew that it was optional and that they chose to take it. I say this because:
oIve seen their loan application  form. This has a section dealing  with PPI. And I can 
see that the box declining the insurance has been  ticked.  So I think  this makes it 
clear that Mr and Mrs W knew that they had the option whether to take the PPI at that 
stage. Nationwide  has a record showing  that it subsequently phoned  Mr and Mrs W 
and sold them PPI.
oFurther, Ive seen  Mr and Mrs Ws loan agreement. It has a table in it setting out, in 3 
columns, the amount of the principle loan, the loan for the PPI and the total loan. 
Under this in each  column it sets out the interest  charged, the total payable  and 
monthly payments  for each of the above elements.  The column dealing with the PPI 
loan is headed:  Optional Credit Insurance. (The italics and emboldening are mine.)
Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why Mr and Mrs W no longer 
remember this.
I dont think that Nationwide recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs W. This means that it 
was up to them to decide whether they wanted  it or not. But Nationwide still had to give 
them clear,  fair and not-misleading information about the PPI so that they could make an 
informed decision.  
Ref: DRN50001932As Ive explained, Mr and Mrs Ws loan agreement set out the premium  for the loan, the 
interest charged on, and the monthly amount payable, for it. But its possible that it didnt 
tell them  everything  that it ought to have done.  But knowing what I do about their 
circumstances at the time of the sale I find that Mr W was eligible for the policy.  And he 
wasnt caught by any of the policys main  limitations  and restrictions  such  as those 
affecting someone with a pre-existing  medical condition. Also when Mr and Mrs W 
cancelled the loan and policy early, they were entitled to a pro-rata refund of the PPI 
premium. So I dont  think that better information would have changed Mr and Mrs Ws 
mind and stopped  them  taking out the insurance. This means that theres  nothing  that I 
require Nationwide  to put right.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000193