K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time, they took out a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The plan included a PPI element, which included 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment. The plan also included life cover.  Ive only 
considered the PPI element of the plan here, as thats what  Mr and Mrs S have complained 
about. Mr and Mrs S paid a monthly  premium for the TMPP. The PPI element of the plan 
would have covered their monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months per successful 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Both the mortgage  and PPI were in Mr and Mrs Ss joint names. The monthly  benefit  would 
have covered their monthly mortgage  payments. It was split equally between  Mr and Mrs S. 
So if either of them  had made  a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid 50% of the monthly benefit. And it would have done this 
for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs S and to Halifax on 22 May 2019. I summarise my findings:
Our adjudicator had explained that Halifax hadnt got copies of all the paperwork from 
the sale, and that hed based his recommendation  on examples of documents Halifax 
used when selling PPI at the time.  He thought  it was likely from those that it had made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs S had a choice about taking out the PPI. But Id seen copies of 
several of the documents that Halifax actually provided to Mr and Mrs S at the time 
which were specific  to their mortgage.  So Id taken them into account in reaching my 
decision.
The Demands  and Needs Statement that Halifax prepared, following discussions with 
Mr and Mrs S, says that a need had been identified  to help Mr and Mrs S maintain their 
mortgage payments if they were unable to work  due to unemployment,  accident,  
sickness or disability.  And it said Halifax recommended that they take out PPI as part of 
a TMPP. I could see that it also recommended life cover and critical illness cover,  but it 
noted that Mr and Mrs S had decided not to take critical  illness cover.  That suggested to 
me that they knew  that they had a choice about the various  elements  of the plan. 
Halifaxs computer  records of the discussions also say that all elements of the PPI were 
discussed and Mr and Mrs S declined the critical illness  cover. This supported  my view 
that Mr and Mrs S realised at the time that the various different types of cover were 
optional.
Ref: DRN57515902Id also seen the mortgage illustration and the mortgage offer that Halifax gave  
Mr and Mrs S. Both include sections about insurance. They explain, reasonably clearly 
and prominently,  that Mr and Mrs S didnt need  to take out any insurance through 
Halifax. They explain  that they did have to take out buildings insurance, but it didnt need 
to be with Halifax. TMPP  Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI) is listed under a heading 
Optional insurance,  and the mortgage offer says Mr and Mrs S had chosen to take it 
out. Id also borne  in mind that when Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs S to confirm that their 
application for the TMPP had been accepted, it said, under a heading Important 
Information that This product is optional; it is not a condition of your mortgage .
Mr and Mrs S say there were  led to believe that they wouldnt be given the mortgage  
unless they took out the PPI. But they hadnt  told us about  anything specific  that Halifax  
did or said which I thought  could reasonably have led them to think  that. Taking 
everything into account, I was satisfied  that it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs S 
that the PPI was optional. And I thought they decided to take it, knowing that they had a 
choice  although I could understand why they may no longer remember  this, so many 
years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. This meant it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. Based on what Id seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I thought it provided useful cover  for them. I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S have 
told us that Mr S would  have been  entitled  to 12 months full pay from his employer  if 
hed been off sick. And I could see that when  he complained to Halifax he also told it that 
that hed be entitled  to four weeks full redundancy pay for every year that hed been with 
his employer at the time. He said hed been  with his employer  for two years and four 
months, so that equated to around eight weeks pay if Mr S had lost his job. Mrs S says 
she wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or redundancy  pay from her employer.
Based on what weve seen in other  cases,12 months full sick pay would have  been  
unusually generous  given the type of work that Mr S did. But the PPI would, in any event, 
have paid out in addition to any payments  Mr S was entitled to from his employer. So 
Mr and Mrs S could have  used those to meet  other day-to-day expenses.  And they 
wouldnt have  had to use their savings to make  their mortgage payments. Whats  more, if 
Mr S had lost his job, the PPI would potentially have paid out for considerably longer 
than hed have been entitled  to redundancy pay for.
I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S have  also mentioned  that relatives could have helped 
with their mortgage payments if need  be. But circumstances can change, and I couldnt  
be sure Mr and Mrs Ss relatives would have  been in a position to help if the need had 
arisen.
Taking everything into account,  I thought  the PPI cover  could have been  useful to 
Mr and Mrs S at what would have been a difficult time. And I thought the peace  of mind 
that it provided would  have  been important to them, given that the mortgage was a long-
term financial commitment, secured on their property.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage illustration and offer. So 
I thought Mr and Mrs S would have  understood how much  theyd  need  to pay for it.
Ref: DRN57515903I acknowledged that it was possible that Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy 
didnt cover  (for example, unusual  working  arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
But from what Id seen of their circumstances at the time, I thought it was unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have  been  affected  by any of these.
Id taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyd said about not 
having been told that the policy premiums would attract interest and would vary in 
amount, based  on their mortgage  payment date. But the policy  premiums  werent  added  
to Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage account, so they wouldnt have attracted interest. And 
I wasnt convinced that small  variations in the monthly premium due, for example, to the 
monthly payment  date would  have put Mr and Mrs S off taking the cover. So these  points 
didnt change my conclusion that based  on what Id seen so far, the complaint shouldnt  
be upheld.
further submissions
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor Halifax have provided any comments on my provisional  decision, 
and the time for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5751590