K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 9 loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr F between January 2015
and April 2017. The amounts Mr F borrowed  ranged between £200  and £575. The loans 
were repayable over three instalments. Loan  nine was the largest amount borrowed of 
£575.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Fs complaint  in part and thought loans five to nine shouldnt  
have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed. It said there was a gap between loans 4 and 5 of 
over three months. There was a gap between loan 5 and 6, Mr F withdrew from loans 7 
and 8. The credit  searches  showed  nothing of concern and it was reasonable to rely on 
what Mr F said about his finances.  It made robust checking of Mr Fs finances and did not 
agree that there was a spiral of unsustainable  borrowing  as Mr F repaid his loans  in full 
and on time.  It also said that removing  adverse  data from Mr Fs credit report  would give a 
misleading report to future lenders. It did offer to refund  the interest and charges incurred 
on loans 6, 7 and 8. Mr F didnt accept that offer and so the complaint was passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts  
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer.  These 
factors include:
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN51504212There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr F could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender  should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower wont be able to make  
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Uncle Buck asked Mr F for information about his income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. For loans one to four, given  the loan amounts, what  was apparent 
about Mr Fs circumstances at the time and his history with Uncle Buck, I dont think  it 
wouldve been  proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending  was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr F then 
provided or the information  Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware of, which  meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr F was saying. From Mr Fs stated 
disposable income and what Uncle Buck  saw in its credit checks,  I cant  say it was wrong 
to provide loans  one to four.
But I think Mr Fs borrowing history should  have prompted Uncle  Buck to make better 
checks for loan five. Mr F had been  borrowing  continuously for over a year leaving a very 
short gap after repaying one loan before taking out another. I agree that there was a gap of 
four months between  repaying loan 4 and taking out loan 5. But I dont think it was enough 
to say that any difficulty may have passed. Mr F essentially kept borrowing without making 
any real inroads into the amounts outstanding which suggests that the loans were 
unsustainable and Mr F was having  to borrow again  to cover the hole in his finances. The 
fact that Mr F repaid his loans on time isnt enough  for me to conclude  they were 
affordable.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Fs case,  I think  that the point at which Uncle  
Buck should  reasonably have seen  that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful was reached  by Loan 8. I say this because:
Uncle Buck had already been  extending credit to Mr F for nearly two years without 
any significant break.
I think that Mr F lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from 
Loan 8 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness  by 
allowing him to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
Ref: DRN51504213the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Fs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was likely  Mr Fs indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably given the amounts and frequency  of his borrowing; 
and;
Mr F was in effect paying large amounts of interest to service the debt over 
an extended period and it cannot  be ignored  that fresh  principal sums lent 
may well have been used to cover the hole in his finances  left by the 
repayments.
So I think if Uncle Buck  had made better checks on loan five and properly taken into 
account what it knew about Mr F it would have  seen that Mr F would be unlikely to 
sustainably repay loan five and any subsequent loans. The overall pattern of lending 
increased his indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and he 
lost out as a result.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans five to nine and Uncle  Buck should put things 
right.
I think that Mr F shouldnt have been given these loans so I dont think any negative  
information should be reflected on his credit file and it is fair to remove  this negative 
information. I dont  agree that this would  give a misleading picture to lenders.  I think it 
would more accurately  reflect the position if Uncle Buck had not given these  loans.
putting things right   what Uncle Buck needs to do
 refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans five  to  nine;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative information about loans four to seven from Mr Fs credit 
file. The number of loans  taken from loan 8 means  any information recorded 
about them is adverse.  So all entries about  Loans  8 and 9 should be removed 
from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle 
Buck must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 February 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51504214
Ref: DRN5150421