K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the increases on her premiums on her home insurance policies, held 
with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
background
In 2003, Mrs M took out home insurance  through Bank A. At that time, the policy  was 
underwritten by a different  insurer. In 2006,  Aviva  became the underwriter.
Mrs Ms policy ran from March 2006 until March 2012. Mrs M moved  property around this 
time and took out another home insurance, also through Bank A, which  ran from December 
2014 until March  2019.
As Aviva underwrote the first policy from 2006 until 2012 and also underwrote  the second 
policy from 2014 until 2019 it was responsible for setting  the price  of the insurance alongside 
the risk it associated with insuring Mrs M. 
This means  Aviva are responsible for answering  Mrs Ms complaint about the increases in 
her premiums.
In 2019, Mrs M cancelled her home insurance  as she had managed  to get insurance with an 
alternative provider  for cheaper. 
Because of this Mrs M says she thinks she was charged too much over the years. Mrs M 
says she should  be reimbursed for the extra she considered she had paid over the years. 
Unhappy, Mrs M referred the complaint to our service.
Aviva reviewed Mrs Ms concerns.  It said the premiums charged  over the years were correct  
and were in line with the type of policy Mrs M held and the cover she had selected.
 
Our investigator thought Aviva hadnt  treated Mrs M unfairly. As Mrs M disagreed, the matter 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Within my role I can look at whether Aviva has treated Mrs M fairly  during the time she held 
her policies. 
When looking at whether Aviva has treated Mrs M unfairly - I would need to satisfy  myself 
that Aviva  had unfairly increased the cost over the years - and this was due to Mrs M not 
engaging with the renewal  of the policy  and not for any other reasons. 
the policy held from 2006 until 2012
Ref: DRN55321142Aviva became the underwriter of Mrs Ms policy in 2006. It says the increases were in line 
with risk associated in insuring Mrs M each  year and alongside the increases each year due 
to Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). 
Having looked  at this I agree. Mrs Ms policy cost around £380 in 2006. By 2011 the 
premium cost around £500. So the policys cost increased by around £120 in five years. This 
doesnt seem unfair and having looked  at the increases they are fairly static.  
Insurers reassess the risks its consumer  present each  year.  So it isnt uncommon for the 
price to change in accordance with the reassessed  risk.
I also note that in 2008 Mrs M had a successful claim for accidental  damage to a computer 
with Aviva paying out around £1,400.
So all things  considered, the increases in Mrs Ms premiums seem  to be in line with what I 
would expect. Importantly  the increases werent simply because  Mrs M wasnt  engaging with 
the cost. 
the policy held from 2014 until 2019
The first policy was cancelled in March 2012  due to the direct debit mandate being  
cancelled. But a second new policy was set up in December 2014.
In 2014, Mrs Ms premium was around £475.  By 2018, the premium  cost around £565.  So 
Mrs Ms premium  had increased by around  £90 in four years. Again, the increases are fairly 
steady. And I note Mrs Ms premium  in 2018 was only £6.00 higher than what she had paid 
in 2017. So I think the increases were due to the risk of providing insurance  which, as 
explained above Aviva  reassessed  each year. Aviva reassessed  the risk of all of its 
customers presented each year, so I dont think Aviva were treating Mrs M unfairly. And 
given the level of increases, I cant fairly  say the increases  were  simply because Mrs M 
wasnt engaging  with Aviva about  her renewal cost.
Im also mindful that when  Mrs M took out her insurance policy in 2014 it likely included  an 
introductory discount. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially be priced  lower  to 
attract new customers. And I dont think its unfair for an insurer  to seek  to recoup that cost 
over the subsequent years  which is likely a part of what happened  here also. 
the alternative home insurance Mrs M obtained
Mrs M thinks  because  she got a policy with another insurer for a lot less, this shows  she was 
overcharged by Aviva. I do understand why Mrs M thinks this and why she thinks she may 
have been overcharged over the years she held her policies.
 
The alternative home insurance  Mrs M obtained through an alternative provider may be 
cheaper, and there could be a number  of reasons for that. Its not uncommon for insurers to 
use different pricing  and risk models  over time. For example Mr Ms new insurance provider 
may not place the same  risk on the policy as Aviva  did. But importantly that doesnt mean 
Avivas perceptions of the risks were  incorrect or that it treated Mrs M unfairly. 
Ref: DRN55321143Also, the new insurance Mrs M took out was likely to have included a discount. The 
insurance market has become increasingly  ever more competitive. As explained above, it 
isnt uncommon  for insurers  to initially  price  a policy at a lower  cost than it would charge 
existing customers for the same  risk. This is to attract new customers. Insurers  aim to keep 
the consumer  and recoup that cost over the subsequent years.  I dont think  this unfair and I 
dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain  that discount for the duration someone  
has their policy.  The new policy Mrs M obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is likely to 
increase in price  as well.
So, for those reasons,  I dont think it would be fair to compare the difference in cost between 
the policies Mrs M had and the policy Mrs M subsequently obtained.  While  Mrs M, when she 
decided to shop  around in 2019,  obtained  cheaper  insurance  it doesnt automatically  mean  
that Aviva  had treated Mrs M unfairly during the years she had the policy. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest  that Aviva  increased Mrs Ms premiums  unfairly  
in the years she held her policies with Aviva.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5532114