K822xcomplaint
Mr Js unhappy that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  removed his temporary 
overdraft leaving him without access to money  over a holiday period.
background 
Bank of Scotland removed Mr Js temporary  overdraft  facility in error  on 13 December  2018.  
It reinstated  the facility and offered him £100 compensation which  he accepted. 
The temporary overdraft  was removed again  on 24 December  2018 and Mr J says,  due to 
work commitments and the holidays,  he wasnt able to rectify this until 27 December 2018. 
Bank of Scotland upheld Mr Js complaint about this and offered him £200  compensation.
Mr J said this wasnt enough and that he wanted £3,600 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld as Bank of Scotland has acted fairly 
and reasonably. He understands this was a difficult time for Mr J as he couldnt  access  
money and he was embarrassed  having to borrow money from friends  and family. This was 
also the second time this error  had happened. But Bank of Scotland  reinstated  the overdraft 
facility as soon  as it became aware of the problem. And its offer of a further  £200  
compensation for the second error  is fair and in line with what  wed recommend.
Mr J responded that he understands £3,600 compensation would be excessive. But he feels 
£200 isnt enough as he was without access to his money for three  days. He was distressed 
being without  money  over the holiday period regardless of how close he was to his overdraft 
limit. He thinks £200 a day for three days is appropriate  that is £600 compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt Mr J was caused  some distress  and inconvenience when Bank of Scotland  
removed his temporary overdraft for a second  time on 24 December 2018. I also understand 
his embarrassment  at having  to borrow money from friends and family  over the next couple  
of days. But the problem  was rectified  by Bank  of Scotland as soon  as it became aware of it. 
And it says it has taken steps to ensure it doesnt happen again.
Mr J now says he thinks he should  be paid £600 compensation for this  that is £200 for 
each of the three days until the problem was resolved. 
Bank of Scotland says this would be far too much high and I agree. Taking  everything  into 
account, including the level of awards we make, I think Bank of Scotlands  offer of £200 is 
fair and reasonable for the three days of distress sand inconvenience Mr J suffered.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Js strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.  I simply leave it to him to now decide if he wants  
to accept Bank of Scotlands offer of £200  compensation.
Ref: DRN53126152my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5312615