K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he sent a request to Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma Loans) to withdraw from his loan but this wasnt actioned and he was charged an 
additional amount when  his loan was settled. 
background
Mr M entered into a loan agreement with Satsuma Loans on 11 June 2018.  He says the 
terms of the agreement set out that if notification  was received within 14 days of the loan 
being taken out and funds  repaid  within  30 days no charges would be applied.  
Mr M applied  for the loan through the mobile  app and says he also used this to notify 
Satsuma Loans  of his cancellation  as he couldnt get though  by telephone. He says that 
because the message was sent through the mobile app he hasnt got an email or other 
evidence he can provide to show what was sent. 
Mr M says that Satsuma Loans  said it didnt receive his notification  and charged  him a large 
amount of interest  when he settled the loan. He says this has left him out of pocket and 
caused a great deal of stress.  
Satsuma Loans  says that Mr M raised  a complaint regarding a number of issues.  In regard 
to the issues raised in his complaint to this service  it says that when a customer  contacts it 
through the mobile app it connects to an email app on their device and sends an email  from 
an email address within the app. It says it has no evidence that Mr M sent an email  on the 20 
June 2018 (as he had said) asking to withdraw from his agreement. Therefore it didnt 
accept it had done anything wrong by charging the early settlement amount.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said he hadnt seen evidence  of the 
notification sent asking to withdraw from the agreement and so he didnt find he had enough 
evidence to say Satsuma Loans  had done  anything wrong.
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He felt that all his concerns hadnt been 
addressed. He reiterated that he sent notification by the mobile  app and so he had no email  
evidence. He said he has multiple email accounts  set up on his mobile phone  and had asked 
all of these to be checked but this hadnt happened. He said he wouldnt have paid back  the 
funds within  30 days had he not withdrawn from the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr Ms complaint is that he sent notification to withdraw from his loan agreement  but despite  
this he was charged an amount relating to an early settlement.  
From the information provided I can see that the loan Mr M is complaining  about  was 
entered into on 11 June 2018 and was settled early  on 20 July 2018. The terms of the loan 
did include  a 14 day withdrawal period and having looked through Mr Ms borrowing history  it 
Ref: DRN50338082appears that he had withdrawn from previous  loans.  So, it is reasonable to accept that Mr M 
was aware of what action  to take to withdraw from his loan.  
Unfortunately for me to uphold this complaint, I need  to be satisfied that Satsuma Loans has 
done something wrong. Mr M has explained how he tried to withdraw  from the agreement  
but without further  evidence  I do not find I have enough to uphold this complaint. 
Satsuma Loans  has explained how the mobile  app works and that it results in an email  being 
sent. I appreciate  the comments Mr M has made about having  multiple  email  addresses but I 
also note that Satsuma Loans  says a record of the sent email  will be in the customers email 
box, therefore Mr M may wish to check his email accounts to see if he has any further 
evidence of this notification.
The system notes show  that Mr M raised his complaint  on 29 June 2018,  and was told no 
notification had been received within the 14 day period and an early  settlement amount was 
generated. Mr M says he wouldnt  have  paid the money back within 30 days had he not 
withdrawn from the loan. I can however see that he was provided with the information 
regarding the lack of notification before the early settlement amount was generated and 
payments made.  
Overall, I can understand why Mr M is upset that he was required to pay the early settlement 
amount but without  further evidence of him notifying  Satsuma  Loans within  the 14 day period 
I do not find I have enough  to uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033808