K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  
dealing with his policy. He wants an apology and compensation.
background
Mr M had a number of HomeCare policies with British  Gas for various properties, which were 
paid by direct debit. The direct debit  was moved  to another bank account and Mr M said that 
the premium was taken  when it shouldnt have been. The bank got the money  back from 
British Gas, but two policies  were also cancelled. 
Mr M complained to British Gas.  It said that Mr M contacted  it to change his bank  account  
details, but its system  had failed to save the new information. This was why the direct debit 
was taken from the wrong account. British Gas explained that when Mr Ms bank  claimed the 
money back, it automatically  led to the cancellation of two policies. It paid a total of £200 
compensation and reinstated  the two cancelled policies.
Mr M complained to us. The investigators  view was that British Gas had admitted  that it 
made a mistake and paid fair and reasonable  compensation in the circumstances.
Mr M disagreed and said that hed had other issues with British Gas. The investigator said 
such issues werent part of this complaint and it was open  to Mr M to raise a new complaint 
about those problems with British Gas.  Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making mistakes, but to ensure that consumers are put back into the position that they 
shouldve been  in if the mistake hadnt  been  made.
Theres no dispute that British Gas made a mistake  and failed to save the new bank account 
details for the direct  debit. But Mr M hasnt suffered any financial  loss and the cancelled 
policies have been reinstated. So all thats left for me to consider is compensation for trouble 
and upset.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered. We award such  
compensation on the basis of the trouble and upset  suffered by the customer, and having  
considered what  Mr M has said, I think £200  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr M was forced to contact British Gas more than once  to put matters right, but British  Gas 
accepted that it made a mistake in a timely way. Theres no evidence  justifying  a larger  sum.
Ref: DRN57482592my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5748259