K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has refused to remove  him from a business account  
and has blocked  the account.
background
Mr U says he sold his business  in November 2018 and factored into the sale the £50,000  
overdraft the business  had. He says Lloyds blocked  the business  account and wouldnt 
transfer it to the new business owners  whom  have suffered a loss as a result. Mr U also 
complains about  how he was treated by Lloyds staff and that it refused to change  his 
relationship manager.
Lloyds says the overdraft was secured with a personal guarantee from Mr U and that he will 
need to repay the overdraft. It says the overdraft agreement expired on 22 January  2019  and 
it discovered Mr U was no longer  a director of the business. Lloyds says it received an 
application to remove Mr U from the account  but it says it doesnt  have a relationship with 
the new owners and the borrowing was secured by Mr U personally. It doesnt  accept  that Mr 
U was treated inappropriately by its staff.
Mr U brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. She thought  it was up 
to Lloyds to decide with whom it entered into a business relationship with. And she didnt 
think it unfair that Lloyds  reviewed the account  and wished to discuss repayment  of the 
overdraft with Mr U personally. The investigator didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake by 
refusing to change  his relationship manager.
Mr U doesnt accept  that view and says Lloyds has effectively closed the account as he cant 
deposit money into the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mr U will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I also make  it clear  to Mr U that I am only looking at his complaint about  Lloyds actions  that 
relate to him personally and not at how they may relate to his former  business. I understand 
that the business has made a separate complaint.
Ive looked at Lloyds records and can see that agreed overdraft arrangements  have been in 
place since at least 2011, and that the last agreement ended in January  2019. I can also see 
that Mr U has given  Lloyds a personal  guarantee  for the overdraft. Mr U hasnt told me that 
he doesnt accept  thats the position  and I can see that he accepts  that the overdraft needs 
repaying. I dont think that Mr U told Lloyds that he had sold the business until January 2019 
which was at the time the overdraft agreement  expired. In those circumstances  I dont think  
Lloyds made  a mistake  by reviewing the position  and concluding that, as Mr U had sold the 
business, then the overdraft should be repaid.
I appreciate Mr U says he had factored the overdraft  into the sale of the business. But I think  
he should reasonably have been  aware  that he was still responsible for that overdraft as he 
gave a personal guarantee on it. If Mr U wished to include the overdraft  position  in the sale 
of the business then I wouldve expected him to include  provisions  for it within  the sale terms 
Ref: DRN54411862and conditions. So I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for that if he didnt do so as its not 
privy to the sale of the business and it doesnt  appear Mr U discussed the sale of the 
business with Lloyds in any event.
I can see that Mr U says that Lloyds has effectively closed  the account  and that he cant  pay 
money into it. Mr U hasnt  explained why he would need to do that as he sold the business  in 
November 2018.  But in any event those are matters that his former business  will need  to 
raise with Lloyds.
I agree  with the investigator that its up to Lloyds to decide with whom it enters into a 
business relationship and how it runs its business. So for that reason I cant  fairly order  
Lloyds to replace  Mr Us relationship manager or order  it to enter into a new business 
relationship with the new owners.
Overall Im satisfied that as Mr U gave  a personal guarantee for the repayment of an 
overdraft, Lloyds hasnt  made a mistake by asking him in his personal  capacity to repay  it. 
As firstly, the agreement  had ended and secondly,  as he was no longer the owner of the 
business. If Mr U wishes  to repay the overdraft or discuss how its repaid then he needs to 
contact Lloyds as soon as possible as its fairly said it will not send his account  to its 
recoveries department whilst we are looking at the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5441186