K820x#14complaint
Mr B says that a new car hed acquired under a hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) isnt of satisfactory quality and he wants to 
reject it.
background 
In June 2018 Mr B acquired a new car via a four year hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. Mr B says he noticed fairly shortly afterwards that the wax oil was leaking from 
inside the car doors and staining  the car sills by leaving a waxy  residue. 
Mr B took the car back to the dealership who wiped the residue off and advised Mr B to 
clean the wax oil off the sill using  a solvent. Mr B was unhappy  at this advice as he was 
concerned repeated use of solvents would affect  the cars  paintwork. 
The leak continued  from the door so in October  2018 Mr B complained  to the dealership.   
Mr B asked whether  the wax oil could be removed and then replaced. The dealership 
contacted the manufacturer for advice. The manufacturer responded that this was not an 
uncommon problem  as the wax was applied in production  and would settle over time. It also 
said that removal of the wax oil would invalidate  the corrosion warranty  as it would leave the 
doors vulnerable to corrosion. The manufacturer said the leaking would stop over time. The 
dealership told Mr B if he was unhappy  at this response to raise it with BMWFS.
The dealership also offered Mr B decals, a full valet and paint  protection  as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr B declined  this offer.
Mr B also had an issue with the cars tailgate struts. The dealership  offered to repair  this 
under the warranty.  But Mr B says he declined this offer as he wanted to have the wax oil 
leak and the tailgate struts repaired together as that would be easier  and more  convenient.
In November 2018 Mr B complained to BMWFS and requested  to reject the car. BMWFS 
didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It said that it had been confirmed  by the manufacturer  that 
the wax oil leak wasnt a fault but characteristic of the car that would eventually stop 
happening. 
Mr B was unhappy at BMWFSs response and complained to this service.  He provided a 
number of photos of the leaking from the doors and the residue left on the sills. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  She said under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 a vehicle should be of satisfactory condition at the point of 
sale and although  she was satisfied that the car had wax oil leaks  it didnt  have any 
mechanical issues and was fit for purpose. She said the leaking was a minor  inconvenience 
and the evidence was that this leaking would come to an end naturally. The adjudicator said 
it wasnt proportionate for Mr B to reject the car for this defect.
The adjudicator said this problem wouldnt be expected with a new car but the offer by the 
dealership to provide decals, a full valet and paint protection  was fair and she wouldnt ask 
BMWFS to do more.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said the leaking was still happening and the 
exterior of his car was affected by it which wasnt acceptable for a new car.
Ref: DRN58149542As the parties couldnt  agree the case has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says the cars  doors have suffered  from wax oil leaks  since he acquired it. The leaks  
leave waxy residue  on the car sills which requires  a solvent  to remove them. He has 
provided a number of photographs showing  the marks the leaks  have left on the sills and 
door. He says it isnt acceptable for a new car to have this problem.
BMWFS says this isnt a fault as it is a common characteristic arising from excess  wax oil, 
thats applied  during  the cars production,  leaking out but which settles over time. There  is no 
repair that can be carried out to fix the leakage.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) goods should be of satisfactory  quality. 
This means  goods  should meet the standard that a reasonable  person would consider 
satisfactory and takes into account its fitness for purpose, appearance  and finish, lack of 
minor defects, safety and durability.
The Act also sets out remedies for goods  that arent of satisfactory quality, and these include 
the right for the retailer to have  one opportunity to repair, to reject  the goods or have them  
replaced. However there are circumstances where  its fair and reasonable to look at other 
remedies if that is more appropriate and I think thats the case  here.
Its not disputed  Mr Bs car has a wax oil leak that marks the cars sills. The photos  provided 
show this but I dont think its a significant  problem, for instance in some  of the photos where 
the car is dirty the marks are difficult to pick out. I appreciate its frustrating and Mr B is 
disappointed that he has this residue on the sills. Ive also seen that the manufacturer  says 
this issue will resolve itself over time as it is the excess wax oil leaking.  There  are no repairs 
that can be carried out to stop the leaks.
I appreciate that Mr B had an issue with the tailgate  struts but this has been repaired.  I dont 
have any evidence that the car has had any other issues and it appears  to be fully usable 
without any mechanical  faults.
So although  I appreciate Mr B is disappointed in the car having  these  marks on the sills I 
agree with our adjudicator that this is a minor inconvenience which will settle  over time. I 
dont think this fault or the fact that it cant be fixed by the wax oil being removed means that 
rejection of the car is fair and reasonable. I think rejection is disproportionate when taking 
into account the impact  of the marks the leaking wax oil would have on Mr B and his use of 
the car.
The dealership made a goodwill gesture of paint protection, a full valet  and decals. I think 
this offer is fair and reasonable as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused 
to Mr B so Im not asking BMWFS to do more and Im not upholding his complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN58149543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814954