K822xcomplaint
Mr L feels that Nationwide Building Society  (NBS) has treated him unfairly in relation to 
some transactions totalling well over ten thousand pounds he made on his debit  card from 
his current account  to a trading company abroad.
background
Mr L accepts he made  these transactions on his card to the trading company in order to 
trade with that company on the markets it said it provided access  to. These payments left his 
account in October, November and December  2017.  Sometime later Mr L became 
concerned that the trading  company wasnt  reputable and sought the return of his money by 
raising a chargeback through NBS. NBS raised  the chargeback and it was defended by the 
merchant (the trading company). Based on the evidence the merchant provided NBS chose 
not to pursue the chargeback process further. 
Mr L complained to NBS and it felt it hadnt done anything  significantly wrong.  But it paid him 
£50 for some service  issues  he suffered. But Mr L remained  unhappy. so he complained 
here. The investigator thought £150  better reflected what  happened but also felt that NBS 
didnt have to refund the transactions made to the trading company. Mr L doesnt  agree. So 
this complaint comes  to me to decide on the matter.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint .
Having considered all of what Mr L says I shall now address the key issues  of this matter  as 
I see them.
Firstly I must make very clear that this decision  is solely  about  the behaviour of NBS in 
relation to these  transactions. It is not and cannot  be a decision on the behaviours  or actions  
of the trading company.  Mr L has pointed  to various sources of evidence  regarding the 
legitimacy and integrity of the trading company. Mr L says the trading company is a scam 
and have stolen  from him. This may be so. However this doesnt detract from the fact that I 
can only decide on how NBS has acted in this decision as it is NBS and its actions which fall 
within this services remit. I urge Mr L to remember this.
As Mr L made  the transactions on his debit card from his current account to the trading 
company there are two issues to consider. Firstly were the transactions themselves properly 
made and secondly  when  Mr L approached NBS seeking  the return  of his payments  did NBS 
fulfil its obligations.
Ref: DRN57968082The transactions
Mr L accepts he made  the transactions. NBS has debited  them  from his account  and 
showed them on his statements and in the evidence  the trading company provided shows 
the details of the transactions. And its clear  that Mr L didnt challenge the transactions at the 
time he made them. So I think he made the transactions to the trading  firm when he wanted 
to and didnt have concerns until sometime after they had cleared.
Mr L has suggested that NBS didnt do enough  to look into the legitimacy  of the trading 
company when he made the transactions. The onus is on the account holder to consent and 
authorise the transaction. NBS does  have a duty to prevent fraud broadly. It doesnt have an 
obligation to stop all fraud in all cases. So I dont think it did anything  wrong in processing Mr 
Ls authorised transactions.
The chargeback
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider (not NBS) and provides a 
process for bank account providers to recover funds  for its account holders in certain  
situations. This is a voluntary scheme  and I should  stress that this process is not a right for 
consumers to go through. 
This service considers it to be good  practice  for firms such as NBS to consider the particular 
circumstances (such as Mr Ls) when considering whether or not to go through  the 
chargeback process-  but this is at their discretion. And if it fairly decides there is no realistic  
prospect of success of a chargeback being  successful (before or during the process) then it 
is entitled to decide to not go through or to stop the process of a chargeback. And in the 
event a complaint  about this comes to this service then we will consider whether  NBS used 
its discretion fairly.
I should make clear that there is no obligation  on the firm (NBS here) to challenge  the 
evidence the merchant provides or to perform some sort of investigation into the merchant. 
NBS duty here is to consider the merchants position and then apply its discretion as to 
whether it should  proceed or not with the chargeback process. I should also make clear that 
the final stage  of the chargeback sits with the card provider. So even in the situation where 
the bank pursues the chargeback to the end of the process in support of its account holder 
the final decision doesnt sit with it.
In this case NBS used its discretion and raised the chargeback at Mr Ls request. The 
merchant (the trading company) responded explaining the transactions, providing  details of 
the relationship  it said it had with Mr L and showing what purported to be trading accounts of 
Mr Ls purported trading with it including dates  and amounts. Also it provided  evidence of 
how Mr L identified himself to it.
NBS considered this alongside what it knew, specifically that Mr L accepted  hed made the 
transactions and that hed accepted hed entered into a financial relationship  with the trading 
company with the aim of trading. The evidence the trading company provided supported 
what Mr L had said about the relationship. It was at this point  that NBS decided not to 
continue with the chargeback process.
Bearing in mind the situation and the obligations  already explained Im satisfied there was no 
reasonable prospect of success in continuing the chargeback  process. It was clear  Mr L 
Ref: DRN57968083entered into the transactions knowingly and accepted the terms the trading company set. So 
I dont think NBS used  its discretion  unfairly  or unreasonably. 
And considering the matter in the round it is clear that NBS can only be held accountable  for 
things it has done  wrong.  The trading company is the subject of a warning on the FCA 
website and as such is outside the scope of this service or indeed the regulator in this 
jurisdiction.
Mr L has argued that NBS should have done  more about the transaction  at the time. But the 
onus is on the account holder to use their money  as they see fit. Furthermore when the 
transaction was made all that is required of NBS is to send  Mr Ls money to where it has 
been instructed  to. And furthermore just because there was such  a warning at the FCA, NBS 
is under  no duty to check that warning list on every  transaction it processes. And even if it 
had been the transaction  could still have been  legitimate  for services or goods not covered 
by the warning. So with regard the transaction  and the chargeback  Im satisfied that NBS 
didnt do anything unfair or unreasonable.
Mr L also points to other successful chargebacks hes raised. This maybe so. However NBS 
is not responsible  for the actions of the trading  company  if it accepted earlier chargebacks  or 
indeed other  financial  firms who may have made a commercial decision to cover  those  
transactions. It is only responsible for its actions.
Mr L has also questioned  whether NBS investigated  the trading company to prove it 
invested my money . But NBS is under no obligation to do so. In the chargeback process it is 
only required  to consider the representations of the merchant and then use its discretion to 
either continue with the chargeback process  or not. It chose not to, and I think  fairly and 
reasonably.
 
So did NBS do anything  wrong in its dealing with Mr L that needs to be put right?
NBS has accepted our Investigators  position  of paying Mr L a further  £150  considering  the 
service it provided. Its clear it could have  dealt with Mr L better and quicker, but I do not 
consider the distress and inconvenience  to be substantial. Consequently considering the 
circumstances I think NBS paying a further £150  a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint.
Ive considered everything that Mr L has said. I appreciate how Mr L feels  about the whole  
matter and why hes particularly vexed at the situation he finds himself  in. However all in all I 
dont think it fair for NBS to have to cover the value  of the transactions to the trading 
company to Mr L. I dont  think it did anything  wrong  in relation to making the transactions  or 
in its position regarding the chargeback.
But I do think NBS should pay Mr L £150 for how it treated him in the issues  surrounding  this 
issue. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
Mr L has repeatedly said he will take the matter further.  He is at liberty  to do so. But this 
decision brings to an end our complaint process.  If he chooses not to accept this decision, 
then neither he nor NBS are bound by it.
Ref: DRN57968084My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that the suggested settlement of NBS 
paying Mr L a further £150 is a fair and reasonable settlement to the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  26 April 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5796808