K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains about the amount that shes been charged by PSA Finance UK Limited,  
trading as Citroen Financial Services, for damage to a car that had been  supplied to her 
under a hire purchase agreement. She also complains about some service  issues.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs K under a hire purchase agreement with Citroen  Financial 
Services that she signed in August 2015.  She retuned the car when the agreement  ended 
and it was inspected  on behalf of Citroen  Financial Services in September 2018. The 
inspection report identified seven  items  of damage to the car and recommended  a charge of 
£463 for that damage.  Mrs K complained to Citroen Financial Services and it agreed  to 
remove two of the items which  reduced the charge to £348. But Mrs K wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service about  the charges,  Citroen Financial Services  
delay in collecting the car and that shed been told that she had to arrange an MOT  test for 
the car before it was returned.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He was satisfied 
that Citroen Financial  Services was entitled  to charge for the following damage:
scuffed front left alloy wheel - £65;
corroded front right alloy wheel - £65;
scratched front left door - £122; and
dented right quarter  panel - £48;
but he was unable to determine  that there was any dent to the right front door so he didnt 
think that Citroen Financial Services should  charge for that. And he said that the car was 
more then three years old when  the agreement ended so Mrs K did need to have  an MOT 
test on the car. And he said that Citroen Financial Services had sent a final response letter 
to Mrs K around eight  weeks after the car was inspected which was in line with what this 
service would expect.
Mrs K has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that after looking at the images  she agrees with all of the charges other  than the 
excessive charge for the scratched front left door. She says that the scratch is 25mm at most  
and that the car was fully cared for before being  returned. And she says that she wasnt 
present when the car was collected  so the scratch couldve happened  after collection.
Citroen Financial Services has agreed with the removal of the charge for the dent to the right 
front door.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K returned the car to Citroen Financial Services when her hire purchase agreement  
ended and the car was inspected by a third party on behalf of Citroen  Financial Services.  
The inspection report identified seven items of damage and recommended  a charge  of £463. 
But when Mrs K complained to Citroen Financial Services it removed two of the charges and 
reduced the total charge  to £348.  
Ref: DRN55056792Citroen Financial Services has now accepted  the investigators recommendation that it 
should remove the £48 charge for a dent to the cars right front door. And Mrs K says that 
she now accepts all of the charges that the investigator has said that Citroen  Financial 
Services was entitled to charge her for  other than the £122 charge for the scratch to the 
front left door (which she says is excessive).  As Mrs K has accepted that Citroen Financial 
Services is entitled to charge  her for the other damage, I wont  consider it any further.
The inspection report included a photo  of the cars  scratched left front door.  It shows  two 
scratches that are each  more then 25mm long.  I consider that those scratches are more than 
would be considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association guidelines on fair wear and tear. And Im not persuaded that a 
charge of £122 is excessive for that damage. Nor am I persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the damage was caused  after the car was collected  from Mrs K. 
I consider it to be more  likely than not that there was a scratch  on the cars left front door 
when Mrs K returned the car. So I consider that Citroen Financial Services  is entitled  to 
charge for that damage.
The hire purchase agreement had a term of 37 months which ended in September  2018  so 
the car was more  then three  years old when it was returned by Mrs K. And I consider  that 
the car was required to pass an MOT  test when it was three years old so that it could  be 
driven on public roads.  The agreement ended  in September 2018 and the car was collected  
from Mrs K and inspected during that month.  So Im not persuaded that there was an 
unacceptable delay  in Citroen  Financial  Services arranging for the car to be collected from 
Mrs K.
Im not persuaded that the service that Mrs K has received  from Citroen Financial Services  
has fallen below an acceptable standard. And in particular I consider that Citroen Financial  
Services sent its final response letter to Mrs K within an acceptable period after the car had 
been inspected  and Mrs K had complained  to it.
So other than removing the £48 charge for a dent to the cars right front door (as its agreed 
to do), I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Citroen  Financial Services  
to remove any of the other damage  charges, to pay any compensation to Mrs K or to take 
any other action in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part. And I order PSA 
Finance UK Limited, trading as Citroen Financial Services,  to remove  the £48 charge that its 
made for a dent to the right front door.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5505679