K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Sainsburys Bank  Plc failed to make  it clear it would only increase the 
interest rate on his variable rate cash ISA if he requested it.
background
Mr F took out a variable  rate cash ISA with Sainsburys in 2016.  He contacted the bank in 
July 2017 to ask about  the interest rate as hed noticed the published rate was higher than 
the rate on his account. Sainsburys then increased  the rate on his account. A few months  
later he noticed the published rate had gone  up again. So he got in touch with Sainsburys 
and they increased  the rate again.  Mr F was unhappy that his rate hadnt increased 
automatically so he complained. 
Sainsburys rejected  his complaint. It told him it would notify customers if the interest rate 
was going down but it didnt notify customers of higher rates.  It said it had different rates  
available to attract new customers  but would only apply those rates for existing customers  
on request. Mr F didnt feel this was fair so he came to this service.  Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld so Mr F asked  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand why Mr F feels hes 
been treated unfairly but based on the information  Ive seen, I dont think  the complaint 
should be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Sainsburys offers different interest  rates for existing and new customers. This is a common  
practice across the industry so that businesses can attract new customers.  While many  
businesses require a customer to open a new account to benefit  from the preferential  rate, 
Sainsburys will increase the rate on their variable rate ISA when an existing customer 
requests it. Its not an automatic increase to the rate applicable to Mr Fs account but rather 
Sainsburys allows existing customers to access the new customer  rates  if they request it. 
It does inform customers if theres  a drop in the interest rate applying to their account so they 
can decide if they want to take action to find a better  rate elsewhere.  Taking  account  of 
industry wide practices and standards, I dont think Sainsburys  has treated Mr F unfairly  in 
the way its informed him about rate changes and responded to his request. The way they 
manage requests  for interest rate increases  from existing customers  is a legitimate business 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr F to accept or reject  
my decision  before 18 March 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5456419