K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains on behalf of company C, about the failure of Advanced  Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus)  to identify and repay returned funds. 
background 
Mr C, acting on behalf of C, accidentally entered the wrong sort code when making an online 
payment to a third party of £5,000 in February 2018. He contacted Cashplus to retrieve  the 
funds. Initially Cashplus used the wrong details  and on later attempts they informed Mr C 
that they had been unable to locate the £5,000, despite C having been informed by the third 
party that the funds had been returned.
Upon investigation  by our service,  it was discovered  that the funds had been returned to 
Cashplus from the receiving bank in March 2018.  
Cashplus say they would  have been able to return the funds earlier  if Mr C had given the 
correct information.  The funds were returned  to C in April 2019, over a year later.  Cashplus 
offered to compensate C £50 for the inconvenience.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Cashplus had let C down as they 
had failed to identify the funds sitting in a holding account. She thought they hadnt done 
enough to search  for the funds. Cashplus had repeatedly asked Mr C, acting on behalf of C, 
to contact third parties to chase the funds whereabouts, the time spent doing this caused C 
inconvenience. Our investigator  thought  that Cashplus should pay C 8% interest on £5,000 
from the date the funds  were in the account until the date they were repaid. She 
recommended a further payment of £150  to compensate  for the inconvenience  caused to the 
business.
Cashplus have agreed to pay £150  in additional  compensation, but not 8% interest as they 
maintain that the funds could have  been  located sooner if Mr C had cooperated with 
providing information.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54143822Its not disputed  there  was a significant delay  in paying the retrieved funds to C, despite  Mr C 
having provided information to Cashplus at an early stage. He shared the information  he was 
given by third parties such as the date of repayment,  payment reference  number from the 
third party bank, the amount and date of receipt.  Even when Mr C provided more information 
later on, Cashplus were still unable to locate the funds. It was only with the involvement of 
our investigator that the funds were  found.
On balance, Im not satisfied that Cashplus have shown they did enough to trace the 
returned funds.  Ive taken into account that there was some internal confusion  as Cashplus 
put the wrong details on the first retrieval attempt, which they assumed had failed. They  then 
raised a second  attempt  much later October, by which time they already held the funds. The 
correspondence around these attempts was misleading.
Ive also seen that Mr C, on behalf of C, was in regular contact with Cashplus chasing the 
whereabouts of the funds over the course  of the year,  which I accept caused inconvenience. 
So taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that Cashplus handled  this matter as well 
as they should have  done.
putting things  right
The funds have now been transferred to C and Cashplus have agreed  to pay compensation 
of £150 for the inconvenience caused to C. 
I appreciate that Cashplus considers an award  of 8% interest is unfair. But the payment of 
interest is to compensate  C for being deprived  of its funds  for a period of time. It was a 
significant period  of time over which  C was without £5,000. Had things been handled better, I 
think its likely that C would have  received  the funds back in March 2018. On balance, I 
consider that it is fair and reasonable for Cashplus to pay C 8% interest on £5,000 from the 
date the funds were  in the account until the date they were repaid.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Advanced  Payment Solutions 
Limited to put things  right as follows:
a.Pay C simple interest  at 8% on £5, 000, calculated from the date the funds were 
in the Cashplus  reserve account until the date they were repaid;
b.Pay C £150 in compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
company C to accept  or reject my decision before  21 September 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5414382