K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the charges that have been made by FirstRand Bank Limited,  trading 
as MotoNovo Finance, when he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr T under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he signed in March  2015. The cars  mileage  at that time was shown on the agreement 
as being 14,132 miles. Mr T voluntarily terminated the agreement and returned the car in 
October 2018. It was inspected by a third party on behalf of MotoNovo  Finance and its 
mileage was recorded as being 123,805 miles.  
The inspection report identified damage to the car with a total cost of £1,783.28, a missing 
MOT and an incomplete service history. MotoNovo Finance charged  Mr T £1,783.28 for the 
damage, £75 for the missing MOT and £300  for the incomplete service  history.  There were 
also arrears on his account of £192.77.
Mr T complained to MotoNovo Finance and it waived the damage charges and the charge 
for the missing MOT. Mr T paid the £192.77 arrears. But it said that the charge of £300 was 
applied correctly as it didnt receive a complete service  history. Mr T wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that keeping  
the car in good and substantial order would include servicing the car in line with the 
manufacturers guidelines. So he thought that the charge of £300 for the incomplete service 
history was correct and that Mr T should  pay it.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes provided  some 
guidelines for what determines a cars  condition  and says that 'good condition'  requires 
partial, documented service history. And he says,  in summary, that:
legislation states that the car should be returned in reasonable condition;
it wasnt stated on his original contract that he should adhere  to the manufacturers 
guidelines;
he took reasonable care of the car - it had a yearly service  with additional oil change; 
and
he doesnt agree that taking reasonable care of the car should be adhering  exactly  to 
manufacturers guidelines.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T requested a voluntary termination  of his hire purchase agreement in October 2018. 
MotoNovo Finance discussed it with him and said, amongst  other things, that there  was a 
charge of £300 for an incomplete  service history. And it confirmed in a letter  to him that he 
would need to provide proof  of regular servicing  in line with manufacturers 
recommendations and that there  would  be a charge of £300 if he didnt do so (which it says 
reflects average loss at auction). 
Ref: DRN52276882Mr T then voluntarily  terminated his agreement. The car was inspected by a third party on 
behalf of MotoNovo Finance. The cars mileage was recorded as being  123,805  miles.  So in 
the three and a half years that Mr T had had the car it had been  driven  for about  110,000  
miles  and in that time it had been  serviced  three times (and the car had been driven for 
40,319 miles and 62,255  miles between services).
Mr T says that he had the car serviced  every year. But where a car is being  used  to drive 
high mileage (and I consider 110,000  miles in three  and a half years to be high mileage) I 
consider that its reasonable to expect that a car would be serviced  more  frequently. Mr T 
says on his complaint  form that hes a private  hire driver. The manufacturer  recommends 
that the car should be serviced at the earlier  of every year or every 10,000 miles  and that 
recommendation was also in the cars owners manual.
I dont consider that the car has been  serviced as frequently as it shouldve  been or in 
accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. So I consider  that the car has been 
returned with an incomplete service  history.  And I consider that its fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  for MotoNovo Finance to charge Mr T £300 for the incomplete service  
history.
The inspection report also identified damage  to the car and a missing  MOT  certificate. 
MotoNovo Finance has waived the charges for those issues  as it says the damage  is fair 
wear and tear and that its received evidence to show that the car did have an MOT 
certificate. Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show that MotoNovo  Finance 
has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr T. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  it to waive the charge  for the incomplete service  history  or to take any 
other action  in response to Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5227688