K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about a default  that Vanquis  Bank Limited placed on his credit file. 
background 
Mr R told us that hed taken out a credit card account with Vanquis  in or around 2014.  He 
said that hed been subject to a bankruptcy order in February 2015. After  that, Vanquis  had 
registered a default on his credit  file. But he said that was wrong, and Vanquis shouldnt be 
allowed to do that once a bankruptcy order was in place.  
Mr R said that when  the bankruptcy order was made, his debt to Vanquis was included with 
all his other debts at the time. So he said that Vanquis couldnt single itself out and continue 
to enforce this debt separately after that. He also said that Vanquis  hadnt issued any letters 
about this default in 2015. 
Vanquis wrote to Mr R and said it had sent him a notice of default  in September  2014.  That 
said he had to pay just over £100 or the account would be defaulted, and the default noted 
on his credit file. No payment was made then, so the default was registered. Vanquis didnt 
think it had made a mistake, and it said that it wouldnt take this default  off Mr Rs credit file. 
At first our adjudicator didnt uphold  this complaint. He said that the default on Mr Rs credit  
file had been applied well before his bankruptcy. Hed been told in late September 2014 that 
he needed to make a payment before 11 October  if he wanted to avoid a default. He hadnt 
paid anything until 19 November. So the default was applied  correctly.  
But Mr R wrote back, to say that although  the default date on his credit  record  did now say 
October 2014, that had been amended. And the status history of this account still showed 
that it didnt default until May 2015, which was after his bankruptcy.  Our adjudicator checked 
with the credit reference agency, and it said that the date had been changed by Vanquis. 
Our adjudicator then upheld this complaint in part. He said that the default date on Mr Rs 
credit file was in October 2014, but the default had originally been recorded as May 2015. 
That date had been supplied by Vanquis. But a bankruptcy order  was issued before that, so 
our adjudicator thought that the impact of this mistake on Mr R wouldve been minimal. Our 
adjudicator said that Vanquis had now corrected the date of default  to October 2014, which  
was the right date.  He said that Vanquis should  pay £100 for its mistake. 
Mr R said that wasnt  right. He said that Vanquis shouldnt change  the date, it should remove 
it completely. It wasnt allowed to register a default after the date of the bankruptcy order. 
Vanquis said it would usually register a default  when someone is bankrupt. But it said that in 
view of Mr Rs bankruptcy,  it would be willing to amend the default to show  as settled. Mr R 
has since told us that he doesnt want to take up this offer.
Mr R said that, in his view, Vanquis was prevented by law from registering a default once he 
had been declared bankrupt. He sent us guidance from the Information Commissioners 
Office, an extract from a legal textbook, and caselaw, which  he said supported his argument. 
Mr R wanted an ombudsman to consider  his complaint, so it was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN54173202my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Before reaching my decision, I asked for some information in this case.  Vanquis  sent us 
a copy of Mr Rs bankruptcy  order. The order is dated February 2015, but the covering 
letter that Vanquis received from Mr Rs trustee in bankruptcy  was dated November 
2015. That letter says Mr R has recently  informed  me that he holds or held  a credit card 
with Vanquis.  So it doesnt look as if Vanquis  knew  about  Mr Rs bankruptcy until very 
late in 2015.
-Mr R has run a legal argument that a default  should not be registered by a creditor  after 
someone is declared bankrupt. Im afraid  I just dont  think  that these arguments are 
relevant to this complaint. Thats because I think that all that has happened  in this case 
is that Vanquis just made a mistake  with the default date. Ill explain why I think  that.
-Vanquis says that the default  happened  in October 2014. That was well before Mr Rs 
bankruptcy. Vanquis has shown us its internal notes, and Mr Rs account usage from the 
time. I think both of these are consistent  with what Vanquis  has said about when the 
default happened. Mr Rs last payment onto his card, before the default,  was made in 
June 2014. 
-I think that its most likely that Mr Rs credit card account with Vanquis was defaulted in 
October 2014, as Vanquis has said. I think its more  likely  than not that the required 
letters were issued  before then,  and I can see that Mr R failed to make  the required 
payment to avoid  a default at that time. 
-But Mr Rs credit file initially showed  a default  date after February  2015.  I think that the 
default date was just recorded wrong. I think this was probably a mistake by Vanquis.
-Whilst lenders dont routinely make mistakes  about default dates, its not unheard  of for 
this to happen from time to time. When a default  date is wrongly recorded, our service 
would usually expect  a lender to amend it, so the right date shows  on Mr Rs credit 
record. Thats what Vanquis has done  in this case.
-Unfortunately, Mr Rs credit file hasnt been fully corrected. His file shows a default date 
in October 2014. But the status  history  on Mr Rs credit file isnt consistent with this. I 
think that Vanquis should complete the amendments to Mr Rs credit file, so that its fully 
consistent with a default date of 11 October  2014.
-Mr R doesnt want Vanquis  to amend his default  date.  He wants it to be removed, 
because he thinks its wrong for Vanquis  to register a default after his bankruptcy. But 
Mr R hasnt suggested that it would be wrong for a default to be registered before he was 
made bankrupt. And Im not aware of any reason why it would be. So I dont  think that 
Vanquis has to remove the amended default, which  shows as registered on 11 October 
2014. 
-Ive thought about what went wrong here, and whether Vanquis mightve been trying to 
avoid the effect of the bankruptcy order, as Mr R suggested. And I dont think that is what 
Vanquis has done. I think this is a simple mistake. I note that the date that Vanquis,  
wrongly, initially registered as the date of default was about six months  before  Vanquis 
Ref: DRN54173203was actually notified of Mr Rs bankruptcy. I dont think  Vanquis  has sought to avoid the 
effect of the order.  
-Vanquis has told us that it will now mark Mr Rs account as settled, because it knows  
that he has been made  bankrupt.  It also agreed to pay Mr R £100  in compensation. 
-Ive thought hard about whether compensation is required in this case. On one hand, I 
think that Vanquis made a simple mistake, which it has taken some  steps  to put right.  I 
dont think that mistake is likely to be linked in any way to Mr Rs bankruptcy. I wouldnt 
necessarily say that Vanquis should  pay compensation, just because  it had made  a 
mistake, if it had already apologised and put that mistake right. 
-But in this case, it doesnt  seem  as if this mistake has been put completely right. The 
amendments to Mr Rs credit  file mean  this entry doesnt make sense. The default date 
is registered as 11 October 2014, but on the status history, his default doesnt show  until 
May 2015. Ive said I think Vanquis should  make  sure the status  history  is also amended.
-I also note that Vanquis  hasnt  explained to Mr R what  went  wrong either.  It did make a 
mistake, but it doesnt seem to have told him that. I dont think that Mr R shouldve  had to 
complain to our service, just to get this explanation. So I also think that Vanquis should  
pay Mr R £100  to make up for the trouble and upset its mistake,  and then its failure  to 
fully correct that and explain  it to Mr R, has caused to him. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Vanquis said it had nothing to add to my provisional  decision. Mr R sent further detailed 
submissions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr Rs argues that Vanquis  didnt actually default  his account in October  2014.  Mr R further 
argues that, having failed to default  his account then, Vanquis is prevented from changing 
this date now, so that Mr Rs credit file shows a default date in October  2014.  
Mr R has set out very detailed legal  arguments as to why he believes that Vanquis  shouldnt 
be permitted to retrospectively change his default date to October 2014, if it didnt actually 
take action to default his account then. I have read these carefully, but I wont  attempt to set 
them out in full here. 
Broadly speaking, I would agree  with Mr R that it wouldnt be fair to allow Vanquis to change  
the default date retrospectively to October 2014,  if I thought that Vanquis hadnt taken any 
steps to default  Mr Rs account at that time. 
But I wouldnt agree  with Mr R that it would be wrong for Vanquis to change  the default  date 
now to October 2014, if I thought that it had taken steps to default his account then. 
I know that Mr R says Vanquis told him that the default date was more  recent  than this. He 
says that, having  told him that, Vanquis cant change its mind now. But Ive explained  I think 
that Vanquis just made a mistake  about this. I dont  think that means that Vanquis cant  
correct that mistake.  Our service wouldnt usually prevent a business from correcting a 
Ref: DRN54173204mistake like that. And I havent seen anything in this case  to make me think  that I should 
depart from our services  usual approach. 
So the key issue  is whether I think  that Vanquis  did take steps to default Mr Rs account in 
October 2014. I explained in my provisional decision that I thought it had. Mr R asserts that it 
didnt, and has sent us some  further  documentation that he says supports that view.  Ive 
considered that carefully. But I still think that its more likely than not that Vanquis did take 
steps to default  his account in October 2014.  Ill explain why I think that.
Mr R said that a letter issued to him in September 2014 wasnt a Default Notice under 
section 87 of the Consumer Credit  Act, because it doesnt have  the wording of that section of 
the Act. Ive looked at the letter  Mr R received, and I dont think  that this default  notice  fails to 
meet the requirements of the Act, or that its unfair  or unreasonable  for Vanquis to rely on 
this as a default  notice.
Mr R says that this cant be a default  notice, partly because it only says that his account  is 
temporarily restricted. But a default  notice warns of an upcoming default. The account 
doesnt have to be closed at the time the default notice is sent out. Rather,  the default notice 
is generally there to warn  account holders that their accounts will be closed,  if they dont 
make the payment required in the notice,  within the deadline set out in the notice. 
Mr R didnt make the required payment within the deadline. He paid a bit less, a bit later.  
Thats not enough to avoid the default.  
We dont have the letter that Vanquis sent Mr R when his account then defaulted. But I said 
in my provisional decision that I thought  it was more likely than not that the appropriate 
correspondence was sent. I still think that.
Mr R has told us that he received a statement  dated 16 November  2014,  and he says that 
this must mean that his account hadnt been defaulted by then. I disagree. I think  that the 
information shown  on that statement suggests  very strongly that his account had been 
defaulted by then. The statement shows no transactions, and no interest accruing. It makes  
a demand for immediate  payment which  is larger than the amount requested in the default 
notice. The statement also says that Your details have been passed  to [a debt recovery 
company] to recover the outstanding debt. 
All of this suggests  to me that the account  had been  defaulted by this point. I think  that its 
likely that this statement  was issued as part of the process of notifying Mr R of that. 
For the above reasons, I still dont think that its unfair or unreasonable for Vanquis to amend 
Mr Rs credit record to show  a default in October 2014. And I still think  that Vanquis should  
complete the amendments to Mr Rs credit record, so its consistent  with this default  date. 
Mr R said that he also thought I should ask Vanquis  to pay more  compensation, because of 
the continued efforts and trouble that hed gone through,  asserting Vanquis  mistakes and 
researching the law. But Ive not agreed  with the points that Mr R has now made.  I still think 
that an amendment  to Mr Rs credit file as set out below, and £100 in compensation, 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
Ref: DRN54173205my final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis  Bank Limited  must  amend the entry  on Mr Rs credit  file, so 
that it is fully consistent  with his default  date of 11 October 2014. It must note this debt as 
settled, as a result of Mr Rs bankruptcy. And Vanquis Bank Limited must pay Mr R £100 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417320