K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) turned down his cancellation claim 
under his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr G was due to go on holiday  in mid-November  2018. Sadly  his brother passed away and 
the funeral took place during the planned holiday dates. Mr G cancelled his holiday and 
made a claim to IPA.
IPA turned  down the claim.  It said Mr Gs brother had been in hospital at the time Mr G took 
out the travel insurance policy, and under its policy terms this meant it wouldnt pay a claim. 
Mr G said his brothers death  wasnt connected to the hospital admission and came to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said IPA had fairly been  able to turn down 
the claim.  Mr G didnt agree so the complaints come to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear about Mr Gs loss. 
It feels rather cold to discuss the circumstances that led to Mr Gs claim. I need  to be 
impartial in weighing  up the evidence, despite  my natural sympathy for him. I must decide  
whether IPA made  a fair decision  to turn down his claim for the cancellation costs of his 
holiday. And that means I must refer to his brothers medical conditions.  Im sorry  for any 
additional distress  this causes Mr G. 
Like our adjudicator I think IPAs decision to turn down the claim was fair. Ill explain why.
Mr G bought his travel  insurance in October 2018.  At that time his brother was an in-patient 
in hospital, having had an operation to amputate  part of his leg. Mr G has explained  that he 
had no reason to believe  that hed need to cancel his holiday.  He says his brothers sad 
death in early November was due to an unrelated breathing issue, and wasnt  due to the 
surgery. Mr G adds that he cancelled the holiday to attend the funeral.
The policy clearly said that IPA would not pay a claim arising  directly  or indirectly  from any 
medical condition  affecting a third party that the policy holder was aware of that could 
reasonably be expected  to result in a claim on the policy. IPA included  some examples of 
this in the policy including where a third party was receiving in-patient treatment. 
Theres no dispute that Mr G knew his brother had a medical  condition  and that he was an 
in-patient in hospital at the time Mr G took out the travel insurance.  But Mr G says that his 
brothers death  wasnt directly or indirectly caused by the condition  hed been in hospital  for. 
I understand Mr Gs point but I dont agree. The medical conditions  including  the amputation 
were set out under part II of the death  certificate. As Mr G says those conditions  and the 
amputation didnt directly  cause his brothers death, which was due to a respiratory  
condition. But as our adjudicator explained the medical conditions listed  under  part II of a 
Ref: DRN54119842death certificate are ones  which  did contribute to the death. So I think it was fair for IPA to 
decide the claim did indirectly arise from a medical  condition that Mr G was aware  of; in 
other words, the amputation surgery.
I appreciate Mr G didnt expect his brother  to pass away,  and he cancelled the holiday to 
attend the funeral. But his brother had been an in-patient in hospital following major  surgery  
at the time Mr G bought the insurance.  I think the nature of the surgery  could reasonably be 
expected to result in a claim under the policy, even if Mr G didnt anticipate it himself. 
I think IPA made the exclusion  clear  in its policy. And most travel  insurance policies include 
this type of exclusion for non-travelling relatives. Its not much comfort  to him now but I dont 
think Mr G could have got cover elsewhere for the cancellation of his holiday under these 
circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5411984