K820x#14complaint
Mr W is complaining  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) has found  him at fault for an accident  
after he made a claim  on his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr W was involved  in an accident in a car park where there  was a collision between his car 
and another car. Liability for the accident  was in dispute. Mr W says that he had reversed out 
of a parking space and was about to move forward when the other driver came round the 
corner at speed  and collided with his car. He holds the other driver fully at fault.  
UKI ultimately decided  to not pursue the claim against the other drivers insurer  because it 
thought he would be found at fault. It had obtained  a witness  statement from an independent 
witness who said that she thought the other  driver was at fault.  But it said that the witness 
also said Mr W was either  stationary or moving  backwards  slowly.  It said the other driver  had 
said Mr W was reversing at the time.  And it didnt think it could use the witnesss statement 
to dispute this. It also said that it couldnt prove the other driver was speeding.
Mr W complained  to UKI about  its decision which he feels  was rushed. Hes unhappy he 
wasnt given the opportunity to provide further evidence. In particular hes unhappy with 
UKIs decision for the following  reasons:
1.The independent witness said that the other  driver was at fault. He says she was an 
army officer so her statement should  have been  taken  with high credibility.
2.UKI didnt get a witness  statement  from the other driver.
3.He wasnt given  the opportunity to provide further evidence.  He said he had photos and 
dash cam footage  which  he could have provided. He subsequently provided  them,  but is 
unhappy they werent taken into account. He says that these photos clearly  set out the 
speed limit of 10mph in a variety of places, so the other driver should have known this. 
He says the witness also said the other driver was speeding.
4.The severity of the damage to his car could only have happened  if the other driver was 
driving more than 10mph.
5.The damage to his car could only have been  caused by the other  driver driving in to him 
 as it was a scrape alongside the car  rather than him reversing into the other car.
6.UKI rushed into the decision and didnt tell him it was going  to do so before it settled the 
claim.
UKI still thought Mr W would be held responsible for the accident. It said it had reviewed  the 
further evidence  Mr W had provided  and it said that this wouldnt have made a difference. So 
Mr W raised a complaint. Hes unhappy  with the way that UKI handled this complaint. So he 
asked this service to step in. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that this service cant decide whos  at 
fault for an accident.  She said we can only look at whether UKI has handled a claim fairly 
and reasonably. She was satisfied that UKI had taken everything into account and she didnt  
think UKI had acted unreasonably.  She said that she thought the claims handler  could have 
called Mr W before she conceded liability. But she didnt think Mr W had lost out as a result  
of this.
The investigator also said that this service doesnt  have the jurisdiction to review  complaint 
handling. So she said she cant comment on the way that UKI had handled his complaint.
Ref: DRN56902252Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He maintained that UKI had not reviewed the matter 
fairly. He said he would expect his insurer to look to support him and he doesnt feel its done 
so. He raised a number  of points, but in particular he said the following:
1.He thinks its unfair  that UKI says it cant evidence that the other driver was speeding 
when he feels hes provided  enough  to show this.
2.UKI has not shown  that it contacted the other driver to get her statement. He said a 
decision cannot be made on this complaint without listening  to the call with the other  
drivers insurer.  
3.UKI shouldnt have conceded  liability without  giving  him the opportunity  to provide  more 
information. He said that in conceding this so early it has prejudiced  its position  to get an 
admission of liability from the other drivers  insurer.
4.The independent witness clearly  says that the other driver was at fault and he cant  
understand why UKI wont use this.
5.He says UKI should have spoken  to him before it decided to concede liability.
6.Hes unhappy that the investigator  said UKI should have  contacted him but she also 
acknowledged that he found this matter stressful. He says the investigator should have 
denounced this as poor customer service.
7.He disagrees that we cant look at complaint handling. He said hes been  through  the 
process with UKI and he thinks  we should look at this. He said his complaint was part of 
the claims process he went through. He thinks the fact that the claims handler  was 
replaced by the complaints handler  shouldnt mean  we cant look at what happened after 
this point.
The investigator still didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. So the complaints been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why. 
Mr W has raised a number of points that he wants this service to take into account. Ive 
taken them all into consideration. But Ive not commented on each and every  point  hes 
raised. No discourtesy is meant by this. But it simply reflects the informal  nature of this 
service. In this decision Ive focussed  on what  I think  are the key issues.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  UKI has carried out a 
fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mr Ws policy, like all other  car insurance policies, allows UKI to take over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim. So its entitled  to settle the claim, on the 
best terms it thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it 
must exercise this right fairly  and reasonably.
First of all, I think  there is some confusion about  precisely whats  happened with the claim. 
The other driver hasnt  made a claim for their damage. So UKI hasnt specifically conceded 
liability, but the other drivers insurer hasnt admitted liability.  UKI has said that to recover the 
Ref: DRN56902253amount its paid to settle the claim it would  have to take the other partys insurer  to court. 
And, based on the reasons I set out above,  it didnt think the prospects of success  in doing 
so were enough to pursue the claim.  It said the best scenario it was likely to get was a 50/50  
split liability resolution.  But this would still be a fault claim  on Mr Ws record.  It still thought  
the most  likely scenario  was that Mr W would be found fully at fault.
Ive looked at everything Mr W has said and reviewed UKIs explanation  of why it settled the 
claim. As I said,  I cant say whether  UKIs decision was correct  in law or whether  Mr W would 
have succeeded  with his claim in court. All I can look at is whether UKI has taken everything 
into account in coming  to the conclusion it did. And Im satisfied it has in this case.  In 
particular, I note the following:
Mr W says that a decision on this cant be made  without a statement from the other 
driver. But UKI has said that her insurer said that Mr W was reversing.  And UKI said a 
witness statement would just say the same, so there  was no reason  to request one. I 
cant disagree with that.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for UKI to say that the witness  wasnt  sure if Mr W was 
reversing or not. Its entitled to rely on its experience  on how statements such as these 
will be interpreted  in the courts. And, while I appreciate Mr Ws comments  that the 
witness said the other driver was at fault, I cant say that UKI has reviewed this 
statement unfairly.
I cant say that it was unfair that UKI said it cant evidence that the other driver was 
speeding. It also said that, irrespective of this, the onus was on Mr W as the party that 
was reversing to ensure the path was clear. I appreciate Mr W feels strongly that he 
wasnt reversing. But UKI has taken all this into account and I dont think its explanation 
about why it cant  use this to show the other  driver was at fault was unreasonable.
I think UKI was always clear from the outset that Mr W was likely to be found at fault for 
the accident. Mr W says that UKI should have  called him to discuss the claim before 
conceding liability. But it wasnt required to do so and I dont  think it acted unfairly in not 
doing so. The claims handler explained on the phone that UKI would wait to see whether 
the other insurer would concede liability. But it didnt do so. At this point, UKI had to 
decide whether  to litigate or not. And it ultimately it decided to not do so. I dont think  this 
decision was unfair at the time it made it.
Mr W provided further information which he says shows he wasnt at fault. Im satisfied 
that UKI did consider this, but it decided that it didnt change the outcome. I also dont 
think this was unfair.
I note Mr W says UKI should have acted  on his behalf. But it was entitled to make  the 
commercial decision whether to pursue a claim through the courts or not. And Im satisfied 
its not acted unreasonably in this case. This hasnt prejudiced Mr Ws rights to pursue the 
claim privately should he wish to do so.
I appreciate that Mr W has found  this whole matter very stressful.  But I dont think the 
customer service  the claims handler provided was unreasonable. I think the majority of the 
distress that Mr W has suffered from is down to UKIs decision to not pursue  the claim 
against the other drivers  insurer.  And, as I said above, I cant say that decision was unfair.
Mr W is also unhappy with the way that UKI handled  his complaint. But we dont have the 
power to look at every complaint that we receive. And we cant  consider a complaint about  
the way a business has handled a complaint.
Ref: DRN56902254Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives  from FSMA.  These form part of the FCA 
Handbook.
DISP 2.3.1 sets what complaints this service can and cant  look at, which  are as follows:
regulated activities
payment services
lending money  secured  by a charge on land 
lending money
paying money by a plastic card
providing ancillary banking services  
or any ancillary activities carried on by UKI in connection with the activities  listed  above.
The handling  of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the FCA 
requires banks and others to do. But that isnt enough to make  it a regulated activity  within  
the meaning of the rule  that is, one of the list of activities  in DISP 2.3.1, which  I set out 
above.
So Im unable to comment on the way that UKI handled Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5690225