K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC,  trading as TSB  mis-sold them   a regular  monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when  they took out a mortgage in 
January 1995.  They  say PPI wasnt discussed  and they werent aware  it had been  added to 
their account. Mr W says he had no need  of the policy. 
background
In January 1995, Mr and Mrs W purchased a PPI policy  when they took out a mortgage. The 
policy covered Mr W only in the event he wasnt working due to an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The PPI cost £12.60 each month  and wouldve provided a monthly benefit of 
£337.71 for up to 12 months following a successful claim. The policy was cancelled when 
the mortgage was redeemed in June 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree,  so the complaint 
comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
complaint. And having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were  taken more than 25 years ago and the policy  was cancelled 
more than 20 years ago when the mortgage was redeemed. So unsurprisingly neither party  
has been able to provide  much detailed information about the sale. And in these situations, I 
have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.  
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs W have given her honest recollections from that meeting in 
January 1995,  but I have to accept  that after all this time memories  can and do fade. And I 
just dont have  any evidence whatsoever  to suggest that the policy wasnt optional   that Mr 
and Mrs W didnt have a choice in taking it out. So with the very limited information  I do have 
and from what I know about Lloyds PPI sales around this time, I cant fairly say that they 
didnt have a choice about taking  it. And I dont think  it was added to their account without 
their knowledge  or consent.
Lloyds wouldve recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, I say this because  this is how it 
conducted its PPI sales  through its TSB brand  at this time. So, it had to take adequate steps 
to make sure it was suitable  for Mr W. I dont know what the adviser  said to him about  PPI or 
whether Lloyds did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. 
Because even  if the bank didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable  for him for 
the following  reasons:
Mr W met the PPIs eligibility requirements,  so was eligible for the policy. And Ive set 
out the PPIs costs  and main benefits  above.
Mr W was working at the time and says he had a good level of occupational benefits 
from his employer if he were  off work sick. He also says he couldve relied on state  
benefits. But if Mr W couldnt  work, nothing Ive seen suggests its likely  he couldve 
Ref: DRN59622562paid the monthly  mortgage and all their other living costs  once  any work benefits he 
may have  had expired. 
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years  and the PPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs  for up to 12 months  for each successful claim  and on top 
of any other cover  he had. So I dont  think Mr Ws other  means wouldve made the 
PPI unsuitable.  And the policy wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs W to use the savings  
they say they had for other important things at what wouldve undoubtedly  been a 
particularly stressful time.
There wasnt anything in the PPI that wouldve made it difficult for Mr W to claim. He 
told us he was employed and in good  health  so he wouldnt have been affected by 
any restrictions or limitations in the policy relating  to unusual work  or known health 
issues. 
I dont know that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr and Mrs W 
before they agreed to purchase  it. I dont know if they were told it would  cost £around  
£12 each month until after the mortgage  had started. For this reason Ive considered 
whether clearer information about the cost wouldve  affected  their decision to 
purchase the policy. But they had chosen to take out the policy,  knowing they would 
have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. So, I think  it unlikely they wouldve made a different decision  if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
Lloyds needed  to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations.  It 
hasnt told us anything  that shows what was actually  said to Mr and Mrs W about this. So I 
cant say its likely Lloyds did give them everything they needed to know before deciding  to 
take PPI.
But did Mr and Mrs W lose out as a result  - would they have  taken the PPI if Lloyds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained  why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
they wouldve  thought the PPI gave important cover  to protect the repayments  on their home 
and that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace  of mind. So I dont think  Mr 
and Mrs W lost out  I think they wouldve taken the PPI if theyd been given enough proper 
information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium  policy,  if they decided that 
the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted the policy, they couldve cancelled  
it without penalty.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5962256