K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (BOS),  mis-sold them two 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out two linked  personal loans 
Loan account ending 0253 (taken  out in April 2000); and
Loan number  ending 7234 (taken out in March 2001).
For both loans, PPI was taken for which Mr and Mrs T paid a monthly amount - £20.15  for 
loan account ending 0253 and £21.82  for loan account ending 7234. 
Both policies  were in the name  of Mrs T only. In the event of a successful claim on either 
policy, if Mrs T wasnt able to work  because of accident or sickness the policy would have 
paid the monthly  repayment for up to 60 months. And in the event of involuntary redundancy 
it would  have paid out for up to 12 months.  
Mr and Mrs T complained they were  mis-sold  the policies. Our adjudicator  didn't uphold  the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts case.
After doing so, Ive decided  that Mr and Mrs Ts PPI policies werent  mis-sold   Ill explain 
why. 
I think that BOS made Mr and Mrs T aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it. I say this because BOS  has given  us copies of both the Personal Loan 
Agreement  SECURED  credit agreements. I appreciate the agreements  are pre-printed but 
I think this is a reflection  of what was said during the discussion Mr and Mrs T had with the 
adviser.
In both cases, the agreements ask Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance?  
The yes boxes have  been marked to say Mr and Mrs T wanted to take PPI. If they hadnt 
wanted it at the times it was discussed, I would have expected the no box to have been 
marked to show they didn't  want it. Mr and Mrs T signed both loan agreements which have  
clear sections showing the PPI separately, including  the monthly cost. I think this shows  
Mr and Mrs T would  have  been aware  they had a choice  about buying the policy, and they 
chose to take it. 
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T and in doing so it had to make  sure it was right 
for their circumstances at the time. In both cases,  the policy was for the benefit of Mrs T 
only. 
Ref: DRN51480792Mr T was self-employed and had been  for many years.  I have looked at the terms of both of 
the policies and see it would have been more difficult for a self-employed  person to have 
made a claim on the policies, than an employed person. So its understandable why both 
policies were in the name of Mrs T only as she was employed at the time of the sales.  
Mrs T has told us she would have received some pay from her employer if she wasnt able to 
work or was made redundant. Both policies would have made the monthly repayments for up 
to 60 months in the event of illness and 12 months  in the case  of unemployment,  and further 
claims could have been made subject to certain  terms. Also,  the policies would have paid 
out over and above any employee benefits Mrs T may have received so they could have 
been used for other essential  outgoings. 
Both loans  were secured against  Mr and Mrs Ts home so I think  the policies  would have 
given them a financial benefit they wouldnt otherwise have had. Particularly  bearing  in mind 
the consequences of them not keeping up repayments on a loan secured against their 
home. 
The cost of the policies was shown.  So I think Mr and Mrs T would have understood how 
much they would need to pay for them. 
Its possible that BOS didnt point out the main  things  the policy wouldnt cover  a pre-
existing medical condition as an example. But Mrs T doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of those  things. So I dont think it would have  made  a difference  to Mr and Mrs Ts 
decision to take the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ts comments,  but because  of what  Ive said, they dont 
change my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5148079