K820x#14complaint
Miss D and Miss A complain that St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Halifax  Insurance Ireland  Limited  sold 
this policy, but St Andrews has accepted responsibly for the sale.  To keep things simple 
Ive referred to St Andrews in the rest of this decision.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  PPI policy taken out in 2010 on 
the phone  shortly after Miss D and Miss A took out their mortgage. The payment 
protection insurance part of their policy provided  Miss D and Miss A with accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  They took out life insurance and critical illness 
cover at the same time. But, Im just dealing with the PPI part of their policy  here.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld. Miss D and Miss A 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
Miss D and Miss A say they were told that PPI was compulsory. They also said they thought  
they took out PPI at the same time as they took out their mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss D and Miss As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss D and Miss As complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss D and Miss A were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time
of sale. 
Looking at St Andrews records from the time of sale, I can see the PPI was added a few 
months after Miss D and Miss A took out their mortgage. So, I think  Miss D and Miss A 
probably wouldve  understood  by then that they didnt need  to have PPI to get the mortgage.  
I can understand  why Miss D and Miss A may not remember that now given how much time 
has passed.
St Andrews no longer has a copy of Miss D and Miss As mortgage and PPI paperwork.  
Businesses often only keep records for six years. St Andrews has provided  copies  of the 
documents that likely wouldve been  used  to sell the PPI to Miss D and Miss A. I havent 
seen anything to show that St Andrews wasnt following its usual sales process in Miss D 
and Miss As case. I think it likely that St Andrews used paperwork like this in Miss D and 
Miss As case and that they chose to buy PPI. And during the sales process, I think  its likely 
that it was made clear  that PPI was an optional extra. 
Ref: DRN59002752St Andrews recommended the policy  to Miss D and Miss A. So, it had to consider whether  
the policy was suitable for them as well as giving them enough clear information about  the 
PPI to decide if it was right for them and they wanted to buy it. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I cant see that the policy was unsuitable for Miss D and 
Miss A. Miss D said she wouldve  got no less than three months worth of sick pay from 
work. Miss A couldnt remember her level of sick pay. The policy wouldve paid out on top 
of their work benefits for up to 12 months per successful claim,  so probably for longer than 
their work benefits wouldve covered them for. Miss D and Miss A couldve made  repeated 
claims under the policy. Given what Miss D and Miss A were  protecting  their home,  I still 
think PPI couldve been useful to them.
Miss D said she also had some savings; worth around three months  worth  of pay. 
However, I cant see that her other resources made this policy unsuitable for them.  Having 
PPI wouldve  allowed them to keep hold of these savings to meet  their other  household 
expenses if one or both of them  wasnt working.
I cant see that Miss D and Miss A were  affected  by any of the main  things  the policy
didnt cover. So, as they couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered.  I think  it
unlikely they needed better advice or information  about the policys  exclusions and
limitations.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Miss D and Miss A about the PPI wasnt
as clear as it should have  been, particularly about  the costs  of the policy.  But, even if
theyd been given clearer information, I dont think it wouldve changed  their mind about
taking out the policy.  Ive also seen  nothing to suggest it was unaffordable at around  £50
per month, or that the benefit was insufficient to cover their monthly mortgage
repayments. 
Overall, it seems likely to me that Miss D and Miss A wouldve understood what they were  
paying for, it was suitable for their needs  and I think it unlikely they wouldve made a 
different decision about  whether to take out PPI if better information had been provided. I 
cant see that Miss D and Miss A have lost out because of anything that 
St Andrews may have done wrong.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Miss D and Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D and 
Miss A to accept or reject  my decision before 17 January  2020.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5900275