K820x#14Complaint
Miss H took out a PPI policy to cover  her mortgage in 2005. Miss H has complained  that 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund any of the commission  it received 
from her PPI premiums.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will disappoint Miss H, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  set out 
some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules  and the Supreme Court  judgment   relate  to the unfair  relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.  The unfair relationship provisions  were  added 
to the Consumer Credit  Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these 
provisions to apply  to credit agreements  taken out before then, the credit agreement still 
needs to be running on 6 April 2008  and still needs to be covered by the Consumer Credit 
Act on that date.
To be clear, the rules around  unfair commission are based on the dates the credit was taken 
out, even though were looking at commission on the PPI policy. I realise  this is not intuitive. 
But even though Miss H complained about the commission on her PPI policy, for the rules 
the important  dates are the ones relating to the mortgage that her PPI policy was protecting. 
This is still the case even  though she applied for the PPI with a separate  form and paid for it 
with a different  direct  debit.
On 31st October  2004, the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. Miss H took out this mortgage in 2005,  so it 
was a regulated  mortgage. Because Miss Hs mortgage became regulated before 6 April 
2008, it was not covered by the Consumer Credit Act.
This means  that the FCAs  rules  and guidance  about commission  dont apply to the PPI 
policy for that mortgage. So NatWest doesnt need to refund  any of the commission Miss H 
paid for this particular  PPI policy.
Ref: DRN56540592My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about the commission  on this PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5654059