K820x#14complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  with a new 
credit card he got from Barclays Bank UK PLC in 2003.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr S 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S said he couldnt remember much about the sale but is sure he never agreed to have 
any PPI with his new credit card. He says he wasnt even aware  he had PPI.
I dont doubt this is Mr Ss genuine recollection  now. But these events are from over 15 
years ago and we now know he bought the PPI whilst applying, by post,  to have a credit 
card. I was sent a copy of his credit  card application  and I can see the form gave an 
obvious choice  to either have, or not have, the PPI. Mr S ticked  the box to add the PPI 
policy and he signed the form.
So I think its clear he agreed to the policy.
I also note that Mr S was sent a letter explaining he had PPI. This was sent a few months  
after the sale and Barclays cant really explain why this took so long or whether the letter  
was a duplicate  - or follow up - from one that was sent to Mr S earlier. But again, its not 
really unreasonable  that Barclays cant now clarify  this issue  after so long and business 
arent required to keep records indefinitely. What this does mean  though is that Mr S would 
have been able to see he had PPI.
Finally, its my experience  that Barclays included PPI charges within  the monthly statements 
it sent to consumers. I think Mr S would  have received these. So all these things point to him 
asking for the PPI, being told he had it set up on his account and also probably being able to 
see he was being  regularly charged for it over quite  a long period.
This was a postal application and not an advised sale.  So Barclays didnt need  to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for him. The decision about buying  the cover  was for Mr S to 
make and he would have made his way through the postal form without any intervention 
from Barclays. As such, I think he would have  been  able to take his time to think  about what 
he wanted to do. 
I can certainly see some ways in which the postal application form could have been set out 
more clearly, but overall this doesnt change  what I think.
Ref: DRN58003812This is because I think Mr S was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking at the work he did, I agree he 
may have  had some sickness protection. But this doesnt mean the cover wasnt  of value to 
him. The PPI he bought  would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit  card balance for 
up to a year if hed needed to claim.  This wouldve been in addition to any other means  he 
had at that time. So I think this policy was of use.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800381