K820x#14complaint
Mrs C and Mr O (the complainants) as executors of the estate of Mrs O and as beneficiaries  
of one of her pension  policies,  say that Willow  Financial Planning Limited  (Willow) failed to 
advise Mrs O that her pension didnt allow flexibility in how death benefits would be paid. 
Mrs C and Mr O say Willow should  have advised  their late mother  to move  her pension  to an 
alternative product  when  legislation  changed  in 2015. As this didnt  happen the complainants 
say they had to pay more  tax than they would have if an alternative policy  had been 
recommended that allowed death  benefits to be taken as income.
background
Mrs O was a customer of Willow, receiving ongoing financial advice from them  in relation to 
her investments and pension products.
Amongst the pensions that Mrs O had was a policy that shed taken out in 2008 to pay her a 
drawdown income. The policy had a guaranteed  minimum  income  of around £16,600 a year 
that would  pay out for the rest of her life. And as long as her pension fund wasnt exhausted 
it allowed  for any residual lump sum to be payable as death benefits. The beneficiaries  for 
these death benefits were  her two children, Mrs C and Mr O.
Mrs O signed a client agreement with Willow in August 2012 appointing them as her financial  
advisers.
Mrs O passed away  in December 2018. Willow  informed  the complainants that her 
drawdown pension  had residual cash that was available to them  as beneficiaries. As this 
was in a pension this wasnt part of her estate.
In 2015 the rules related  to death  benefits  from pensions changed. Providers could  allow 
beneficiaries to choose to take death  benefits in the form of an income as well as a lump 
sum. But there was no obligation for providers  to change existing policy  terms. And Mrs Os 
pension terms and conditions werent  changed. So, the complainants had to take the death 
benefit of this policy as a single lump sum payment. 
Willow contacted the pension provider to request that Mrs C and Mr O be allowed the option 
to take the benefits as a drawdown income instead. That way reducing their exposure to 
income tax. The pension provider refused, explaining that the terms of this policy didnt  allow 
them to do that.
Mrs C and Mr O complained to Willow that it failed to address the impact of legislation 
changes on their mothers pension.  They believed that Willow were sent information from the 
pension provider that it should  have  acted upon.  They say it should  have  advised  Mrs O of 
the impact on the beneficiaries of her policy not being changed to allow the new freedoms. 
They complained that Willow  should have advised Mrs O to move her pension to a different 
product that would have allowed them the option to take the residual pension benefits  as a 
drawdown income. The complainants said that Willows lack of suitable advice to Mrs O 
caused them  to pay more income tax than they needed to have.
Willow didnt  uphold their complaint. It said that the advice it provided  Mrs O remained 
suitable for her throughout  her retirement. And that her pension offered a lifetime  income  
guarantee that would  have been lost if the pension had been transferred. Which  they said 
would have been at odds  with their requirement to ensure their advice was suitable  for 
Ref: DRN52238392Mrs O. They  said that they didnt think it would have been appropriate  to put the needs of the 
beneficiaries ahead of Mrs Os needs.
The complainants  didnt accept Willows  answer  and brought their case to our service.  They  
said that Willow should have reviewed Mrs Os pension arrangement ahead of her 75th 
birthday and identified the tax implications of remaining in her existing policy.  
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  But Willow  disagreed with our investigators view and 
raised the following objections:
They didnt agree that they should  have  advised  her to move her pension because  it 
would have meant losing the guaranteed drawdown  income  shed wanted.  And any 
annuity would have reduced  the potential death  benefits that were available  to 
Mrs Os family.
They said they reviewed the plan in 2013 and considered  it to be a suitable policy  for 
Mrs Os need to provide  a risk free income and death benefits.
They said they arent aware of a product that would have provided the same 
guaranteed draw  down income  in 2016.
They say that they were  never  informed by Mrs O that death benefits  had become  a 
more important consideration  than an income  for this pension.
They werent advised that Mrs Os health had materially  worsened, and they werent 
asked to review the advice because of any change in her health.
So this case  passed  to me for an ombudsman decision. I issued a provisional decision to 
both parties setting out my views, giving them the opportunity to respond.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ill start out by explaining how this complaint was initially raised with us. Mrs C and Mr O 
were both executors  of their mothers estate and have clearly shown that theyre eligible to 
bring their complaint  in that way. But I dont think this complaint is made in that capacity.
I refer to this because the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) handbook glossary defines a 
complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person  about the provision of, or failure to provide,  a financial service, claims 
management service  or a redress determination, which:
(a)alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience;  and
(a)relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom 
that respondent has some connection  in marketing  or providing financial services 
or products, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service
Mrs C and Mr O complain about an issue that impacted on the way, as beneficiaries of their 
mothers pension, they could draw the death benefits from her policy.  So neither Mrs O or 
her estate suffered  financial  loss. 
Ref: DRN52238393The set of rules under  which  the Financial Ombudsman Service  operates, are known as the 
DISP Rules. And DISP 2.7.6(4) says:
To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent: a 
complainant is an eligible  complainant if:
(4) The complainant  is a beneficiary of or has a beneficial  interest  in, a personal pension  
scheme or a stakeholder  pension  scheme.
This was a point more  clearly defined in the DISP rules prior to 6 April 2008 when the rules 
were simplified. Prior to that simplification, DISP 2.4.12R included beneficiaries of personal 
pensions amongst other persons entitled  to bring  complaints. And an FSA consultation 
paper from 2008  (CPO7/14) confirmed that the simplification of eligible complainants wasnt 
intended as a substantive  change to the categories. So beneficiaries  of personal pension 
schemes were always intended  to be eligible  complainants about advice given to members  
of a pension scheme.  Either  as customers or as direct complainants.
Mrs C and Mr O are beneficiaries of their late mothers pension. They believe that mistakes 
made by Willow  denied  them the opportunity to take the death benefits  as an income and 
therefore avoid  the income  tax burden all coming due in a single year.  The advice that 
Willow provided Mrs O directly affected the beneficiaries.  There  is a relevant  relationship  
with Willow, even though the complainants  werent Willows clients. So I think that theyre 
entitled to complain in their own right as beneficiaries.
Having concluded  this case is within the jurisdiction  of this Service,  Ive gone  on to consider  
the merits of Mrs C and Mr Os complaint.
The pension in question  was set up in 2008  by a different  financial advice business.  But the 
complainants have shared the original  suitability report. And it was clear that Mrs O had 
objectives to achieve an income that was guaranteed  for her life as well as wanting  to leave 
as much to her dependants in death  benefits as she could.  And Ive no reason to suppose 
that the importance of either  of those objectives  changed materially  during her lifetime. I say 
this because this pension had a drawdown income, which  afforded  Mrs O the option to vary 
the amount of income she drew  from this pension fund if she wished. It appears that the 
income she took remained constant.  Had the need for income become more important she 
could have increased the income she took because she wasnt withdrawing the maximum 
possible drawdown income. Similarly had death benefits become more  important than 
income she could  have reduced the drawdown to minimise the erosion  of her remaining 
fund. 
I can only consider Willow  to be responsible for any advice that they provided,  or should 
have provided, after becoming her financial  advisers in 2012.  And by 2012 the policy  in 
question was already in place. Mrs C and Mr O have  said that Willow should have reviewed 
Mrs Os drawdown  policy  ahead of her 75th birthday as that was recommended  in the 
suitability report by her previous adviser. But I think that Willow  did. In 2013  they made 
contact to discuss the option of Mrs O taking an annuity. Which  was 22 months  ahead  of her 
75th birthday. The drawdown income  that she was taking was still at the previously 
guaranteed level,  although the maximum possible drawdown income  was still higher. Which 
was an indication that her residual pension fund was still at an adequate level. Willow 
provided an illustration for an enhanced annuity  that would have provided a guaranteed 
income for Mrs O of £23,765 a year. But the decision was made to retain her existing 
Ref: DRN52238394pension benefits  which effectively meant  a smaller  income but retaining lump sum death 
benefits.
Having taken that decision I dont think it was fair to say that Willow needed to revisit it again 
when Mrs O turned 75 unless there was a change in Mrs Os financial circumstances. Which 
there wasnt. She didnt  need to increase her income and wasnt facing any drop in the 
drawdown income available to her. I can see that her pension  provider wrote to her closer to 
her 75th birthday  about the decision on how to take her pension benefits.  But in Mrs Os case 
that decision was already  made.
After the decision  was made not to take an annuity with this pension fund Willow continued  
to send Mrs O annual  reviews. Willow have shown  us what  these consisted of - an 
examination of the performance of all of Mrs Os investments  and pensions.  The 
complainants say this wasnt enough  of a review.  But in the absence  of these reviews 
highlighting any concerns with the performance of a particular  product, I dont  think I can 
criticise Willow for this. Where products are suitable  and performing, I wouldnt expect an 
adviser to recommend switching products without reason.
It is also clear  from the correspondence shared by both sides that Willows reviews  included 
an invitation to meet to discuss the content  of the review. Which I think was fair. It seems  
that the option was always there  for Mrs O to receive further advice if she wished. But I 
wouldnt expect Willow to be insistent about  that. And I can see that correspondence was 
sent to Mrs C and her husband  because they were  providing Mrs O with the help she wanted 
to manage her financial affairs. So I cant see anything obviously  wrong  with the way Willow 
provided ongoing advice.
Mrs C and Mr O have provided us with the copy of a letter that Mrs O was sent by her 
pension provider in March 2015.  It referred to legal changes that came  into effect on 6 April 
2015 which provided greater flexibility in how pension benefits could be taken. It explained 
that some  of the changes wouldnt be available under her pension plan. It provided 
additional information in the form of a guide, as well as a link to a retirement planner on their 
website. It also suggested speaking to her financial adviser. The letter  also had a section 
headed death benefits. And whilst it didnt provide details, it did say that the rules  covering 
death benefits were  changing, and where to access further information.
I think that letter made it fairly clear that there  were changes that might impact  Mrs Os 
benefits. I understand that the pension provider have now told Mrs C and Mr O that Willow 
were sent a copy of that letter too. But the letter doesnt say that. So on receiving  that letter, 
Mrs O and whoever was helping her with her finances wouldnt have known Willow  may 
receive it. So couldnt have assumed that Willow would contact them  to discuss the ongoing 
suitability of her drawdown pension in light of the changes. And Willow  would likewise  have 
known that Mrs O had been  sent that letter advising her to seek  advice if she needed to. 
Which she never did. 
Had Willow  been contacted by Mrs O or her family,  Id have expected it to have considered 
the new options around death benefits  and explained them.  And at that point I think Willow  
could have explained to Mrs O that her pension terms and conditions werent being 
changed. But her pension was still providing  the guaranteed income  they believed  Mrs O 
needed and its residual fund size remained healthy. So it still provided the death benefits 
that Mrs O wanted. Irrespective of the limitation  in the way that theyd  have to be taken.
For the above reasons, I dont think its reasonable to suggest that Willow should have been 
reviewing a pension  that appeared to be suitable  without being  asked to do so. But even if 
Ref: DRN52238395they had done, I dont  think  that theyd have recommended Mrs O switch from the pension  
she was on for the following reasons. 
Mrs Os pension provided a guaranteed minimum income level. And this was a valuable 
thing which  Willow say they couldnt  replicate by switching to another provider in 2016. And I 
havent seen any evidence of an alternative product  that allowed the death benefit flexibility 
Mrs C and Mr O want  with the same level of minimum guaranteed income for Mrs O. The 
guaranteed drawdown income  from this pension had remained relatively static since she 
started taking it, so had already reduced in real terms because of inflation. And whilst Mrs O 
hadnt needed to take the higher enhanced annuity  income available  in 2013, she also 
chose not to reduce her income either.  It was always  acknowledged that death benefits were  
important to Mrs O and this pension did provide those. So, I cant  say that its more  likely 
than not that a switch to a pension  with a smaller income, or taking a drawdown  with no 
guarantees at that time, would have been  a suitable recommendation. Willow had to 
consider the longer term and didnt  know how long Mrs O would need income from that 
pension. 
the response to my provisional  decision
Im grateful  for the detailed and considered response that Mrs C and Mr O provided. I have 
considered their response carefully and summarise  the main points raised in response to my 
provisional decision as follows:
Willow were  aware  that Mrs Os health  had deteriorated and that knowledge should 
have prompted  them to review the advice to enhance death benefits.
In January 2017 Willow were asked  to help locate a copy  of Mrs Os lasting Power of 
Attorney document  as Mrs O was in hospital.  Which should  have led Willow to 
assume that Mrs O was in a poor state  of health.
Mrs C and Mr O have shared copies of an email  sharing the quoted enhanced annuity in 
2013 and an email from 2017  showing that Willow had helped provide a copy of Mrs Os 
Power of Attorney document. They  argue  that Willow should  have understood  the 
deterioration of Mrs Os health. And understanding that should have led them  to make 
contact to amend  Mrs Os pension.
Willow had no further response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
decision in the light of Mrs C and Mr Os response  to it.
I would like to again offer my condolences to Mrs C and Mr O for their loss. I recognise the 
additional strain  that the issue complained about must have had. So I understand that theyll 
be disappointed  that Im not upholding their complaint.
I was already aware that the option of an enhanced annuity had been explored  in 2013. The 
information and email had already been shared.  But I dont agree that Willow should have 
assumed that Mrs O would have  as short a period to live as she did. In fact, if that were the 
case, I wouldve  expected them to have  more clearly explained why any form of annuity was 
unsuitable. I think that at that point they still had to ensure that Mrs Os pension  was able to 
Ref: DRN52238396continue to pay her an income for as long as she needed it. And I dont  think  they could have 
known how short that would be.
Ive considered the significance of the email chain relating to the request for the Power  of 
Attorney documentation.  But I dont think that anything in it suggests that Mrs O was so ill 
that she may only have  a short time to live at that point. A Lasting Power of Attorney allows  
appointed persons to act for the subject should they not have  mental capacity. That could  be 
short term or permanent.  But isnt by itself indicative of a serious or terminal health condition.
I can see that Mrs C and Mr O have ended up paying more tax on the death benefits of 
Mrs Os pension than may have been  the case if theyd been  able to take the benefits  in a 
more flexible way. And I can see the lengths  that Willow went  to on their behalf to try to get 
the pension provider to change their position  on that. But for the same reasons  that I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think that means  that Mrs Os pension was 
unsuitable for her. So I dont think that Willow have done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5223839