complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is against Barclays Bank UK PLC. In substantially  summarised bullet 
points, the complaint is, in essence,  that the bank:
 made lending  decisions that impacted adversely on her business, causing her financial 
hardship;
 marked adverse information on her credit file that forced  her to obtain expensive  finance 
elsewhere to operate  her business;
 later delayed removing the information  and paying her redress  agreed in settlement of an 
earlier complaint; and
 went back on a promise from one of its staff members to pay her further  compensation 
and approve new credit facilities.
Mrs G wants all adverse  information removed, additional compensation for personal  and 
business losses, and for the bank  to provide new credit facilities so that she can re-grow her 
business.
background
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and involve several  
different financial arrangements that Mrs G holds (or has held) with Barclays; including  a 
personal mortgage and various business  banking facilities.  Some of those arrangements 
were (or are) held jointly  with Mr G, other by Mrs G only. Mr G has been made aware of the 
complaint Mrs G has made, and has told us hes happy for us to deal with it.
The evidence in the case is immensely detailed, running to around 1,000 pages  of 
documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less 
relevant to the underlying case than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents 
and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in 
rather less detail than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt  think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me.
It allows  me to focus on the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which,  although presented as material,  are, in my opinion  peripheral  
or, in some  instances,  have little or no impact  on the broader outcome. Another reason  I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs G when my decision is 
published.
K821x#15
Ref: DRN5231130Mrs G has been  a customer of Barclays  for many years. For the purposes of this narrative, 
Ill confine myself to events since 2009,  as thats  broadly  consistent  with the time-line  of 
events Mrs G has given  us.
Mrs G and her husband  ran a business  together, with banking  services provided by 
Barclays that included  a £200,000 overdraft  facility. The overdraft  had been  used to finance 
a bond issue to facilitate  a refund of VAT owed to the business  overseas. In April 2009, 
Barclays wrote to tell them it was reducing  the overdraft limit to £50,000. They  managed to 
repay the £150,000 using retained  funds that were meant to grow the business. Later that 
year, the bank  called  in the remaining  £50,000 overdraft, leaving the business further 
deprived of money to develop new orders.
To counteract  this, Mr and Mrs G increased their mortgage by £125,000; of this, £55,000 
was used to clear the overdraft, and the rest went on new orders for the business. A second 
business account, held in euros, was left open  with a debit balance  of about €13,000. The 
reduced funding,  combined with the global  financial  crisis, impacted on the business  and 
over the next two to three years profit declined sharply.
As Mr and Mrs Gs financial situation deteriorated,  they approached Barclays  in 2011  for a 
better deal on the mortgage. This was turned down, leaving them  on a much higher  rate than 
they thought they should  be paying. This eventually resulted in a complaint to this service  in
2015, which was settled in early 2016. Ill return to this in due course. In between  times, 
however, they continued to struggle to run the business, and asked for a loan in late 2011. 
Mrs G says they were  told theyd need  to repay  the euro account debt first, and then the 
bank might look at things  again in about  six to nine months.
Some mortgage payments were  missed and these were recorded on Mr and Mrs Gs 
respective credit files. Mrs G says this made it harder  still for them  to obtain credit to operate  
the business. Barclays told them it couldnt lend at present, but put them in touch with a firm 
of loan brokers whom Ill call F. Mr and Mrs G contacted  F, and F arranged  a loan with a 
company Ill call BF.
The loan from BF was for £60,000, plus fees,  and was paid directly to Barclays, who used it 
to clear mortgage arrears and the euro account  balance, leaving about £32,000 to spend  on 
new orders for the business. But the BF loan was very expensive; about £900 per month.  
Mrs G says that with interest and charges, the balance is still about  £70,000  now.  In 2012, 
Mr G left the business, since when Mrs G has operated as a sole trader.
Mrs G complained to Barclays  about how shed been treated. She said the main problems 
were the withdrawal of the business overdraft and the mortgage still being on too high a rate. 
She was contacted by a Mr S, who initially seemed to be optimistic about being  able to help, 
but after several months, said the matter was out of his hands because  of the credit file 
entries. This was in 2013, and Mrs G says she then spent the next two years in a cycle of 
hardship caused by a combination of limited business performance due to lack of funding
and the high costs of the mortgage and BF loan.
In late 2015, she raised the complaint  about the mortgage, and that came to us. The gist of it 
was that Barclays hadnt offered a lower rate or possible term extension  to deal with financial 
hardship. The adjudicator who dealt with it said Barclays should revisit  the account  from
2010 onwards,  and if appropriate apply forbearance  measures  (including potentially a lower 
rate and refund of fees and charges)  retrospectively  and pay £1,000 compensation.
Ref: DRN5231130At Barclays, the job of implementing the settlement was picked  up by a member of staff Ill 
call Mr T. Mrs G says that the offer Mr T made  in order to implement the settlement brokered 
by our adjudicator  was that the bank would do the following:
 clear all arrears  from the mortgage;
 remove all adverse  entries from her credit  file; and
 provide a term extension and new rate.
The arrears  were just over £50,000;  about £30,000  were cleared by the bank, with the 
remaining £20,000 of the settlement being paid directly to Mrs G to provide a cash resource. 
But the credit file entries werent  cleared and the mortgage term and rate werent changed.
Separately Mr T also considered, and then agreed  to settle,  a claim from Mrs G for personal 
losses caused by the impact  of the banks actions on her trading situation. In respect of 
personal losses, Mrs G says Mr T agreed  to do the following:
 reimburse the extra interest  cost of the BF loan;
 reimburse the extra interest  cost of a loan taken out with a company  called  MB so that 
Mrs G could pay the balloon payment on her personal car (she had a second car through 
the business);
 a goodwill payment for stress caused  by threats of legal action by Barclays  and the car 
finance company;
 writing off the historic balances of a Barclayloan and Select Loan;
 provide Mrs G help and advice  on how to remove alleged irregularities from the BF loan 
contract, which would  save her money
Mr T set out his proposed actions in a letter  in October 2016.  These  were:
 an award of £42,741.64 in respect of the BF loan;
 an award of £38,706.36 in respect of the MB loan;
 an award of £21,552 in respect of assorted costs relating to the Barclayloan and Select
Loan; and
 an award of £35,000 for distress.
The combined total award would be £138,000,  of which  Mr T said the bank  would keep
£20,000 to offset  the amount from the mortgage  complaint settlement that had been paid 
directly in cash rather than into the mortgage account to clear arrears.
The awards in respect  of the BF and MB loans  each included  an amount for interest on
funds wrongly deprived of, calculated at 8% simple  per annum. Those  interest amounts were 
then subject to a tax deduction before payment,  for which Mr T said hed provide tax 
certificates. Mrs G has said the certificates  never  arrived.
Mrs G says Mr T had also promised her compensation for consequential losses and missed  
opportunities on the business side; she put this at £150,000. Shed sent him details of 
unfulfilled orders, due to her failed  attempts to borrow from other financial businesses,
peer-to-peer lenders or even the governments  start-up initiative.
In the latter case, Mr T had written  a letter  to say the entries on Mrs Gs credit file were due 
to be removed and could  be disregarded,  but apparently the government department 
couldnt do that so Mrs G was still refused a loan. Mrs G says Mr T told her he would  talk to
Ref: DRN5231130the lending department in the bank and make sure shed received a new business overdraft 
facility.
Soon after this, Mr T left the bank,  and a Mr Y took over dealing with Mrs Gs affairs, which 
still werent settled to her satisfaction.  The credit  file entries remained a problem, so Mrs G 
continued to have  difficulties getting business  funding, including  from Barclays itself. The 
mortgage rate and term hadnt been changed, and nothing had been done  to try and help 
her with the BF loan contract.
Mrs G spent 2017 and early 2018 in correspondence with Mr Y, who thought the bank  had 
done all it could to help her and wasnt obliged to do some  of the things Mr T had apparently 
promised her. He also, she says,  expressed  deep  reservations about the award for personal 
loss that Mr T had already made. Eventually, Mrs G made a new complaint, which  Barclays  
addressed in a final response dated  23 March  2018.  The main points of this were:
 The mortgage remained in arrears after the 2016  complaint settlement because £20,000 
was paid in cash  to Mrs G and no payments had been made since.  There  was some  
confusion over whether this was because Mr T had told her not to make  payments whilst 
he dealt with the personal (and business) loss claim.
Giving Mrs G the benefit of the doubt, Barclays had amended the mortgage account 
balance to reflect what it would have been  if payments had been made up to
January 2018.  In effect, this was writing  off close to £60,000. This meant the mortgage 
was now up to date, and the bank would amend Mrs Gs credit file to show  that, but she 
should now resume monthly payments with effect from April 2018.
If Mrs G wanted, she could apply for a new rate; it would be wise to wait for the credit file 
amendments to go through before doing  so, but she shouldnt  wait for any new rate to be 
agreed before resuming  monthly payments.
 Redress to the value of £138,000 had been made in the October 2016 settlement for 
personal losses, but on revisiting the basis for it, there was an argument to suggest it 
wasnt necessary; it had nonetheless been honoured.
 There was no basis for a payment of £150,000 minus tax to cover business  
consequential losses, nor was there anything to suggest it was ever offered. The bank 
had paid some of Mrs Gs costs in pursuing the complaint but wouldnt be covering any 
more.
 New funding for the business had been discussed and considered, but nothing had been 
promised. The lending department had considered an application  submitted in
January 2018,  but it had been declined. If Mrs G wanted to make a new application back  
by fresh  business  proposals, it would be considered, but again there was no guarantee
of it being approved.
 Whatever Mr T did or didnt say, it wasnt Barclays role to advise on or help with Mrs G
in resolving any dispute she had with BF over the loan contract.
 Mrs Gs accountant had provided  an estimate  of over £0.5m in business  losses  since
2012 (albeit Mrs G was willing to accept £150,000) because of the problems with the 
mortgage; the bank considered this unjustified. The bank had already paid over
Ref: DRN5231130£187,000 in compensation in 2016, and was about  to pay a lot more as part of the 
current response.
 Lastly, returning to the starting  point of the withdrawal of the business overdraft in 2009  
just as the economy was on a downturn - the bank  expressed  sympathy  but reminded 
Mrs G it could withdraw facilities if it wished to.
Mrs G brought  the complaint to us. She was very anxious that we deal with it swiftly, as she 
needed a favourable settlement in time for her next round of orders.  However,  her complaint 
was complex and required a lot of detailed consideration. Unfortunately, the investigator to 
whom the complaint was initially allocated went on long-term sick leave, and it had to be 
reassigned.
The new investigator, and her line manager,  had extensive discussions with Mrs G over the 
scope and reach of our investigation. The investigator issued  her findings, which didnt  cover  
everything Mrs G wanted us to look into, in October 2018. The main points were, in 
summary:
 The original mortgage complaint  had been dealt with by us in 2016,  so she wouldnt be 
looking into that again.
 Mr T had said in a letter in September 2016  that the bank would  be clearing Mrs Gs 
credit file. That had given  Mrs G the impression  that every part of her credit  file would be 
cleared. So far, the bank  had only cleared the main mortgage account  entries.  The 
investigator thought  it right that the bank also clear the entries  for the current account 
linked to the mortgage. It didnt have  to clear  the entries for the Barclayloan  and Select  
Loan, but it shouldnt have let her think it would do. It should pay Mrs G £250 
compensation for this.
 Barclays should have  cleared the mortgage credit file entries in 2016, not in 2018. The 
additional two years delay had caused  Mrs G a lot more unnecessary distress,  for which  
the bank should pay her £750 compensation.
 The bank  hadnt promised to pay Mrs G £150,000 for personal consequential  losses;  it 
had offered her £138,000, with a detailed explanation of how it had been  calculated. All 
of the £138,000 had been paid, albeit £20,000 had been used to offset the sum that had 
been paid in cash rather than used to pay off mortgage arrears  earlier  in 2016. The tax 
deductions had been explained,  but the bank should provide new copies of the tax 
certificates.
 Wed already received and dealt with complaints  about the BF loan (against BF itself and 
against F as the broker that arranged it). All she could consider against Barclays  was 
whether it was bound  by a promise allegedly made  by Mr T to help Mrs G get out of the 
contract with BF. Whatever Mr T may or may not have said,  she didnt think  it fair or 
reasonable to say Barclays must do this.
 Barclays had agreed to cover  some of Mrs Gs costs  in making the complaint. But it 
hadnt agreed to cover all of them, and wasnt obliged  to do so in any event.
 Notwithstanding the effect  it had, Barclays original decision to call in the business  
overdraft in 2009 wasnt unfair. It was a commercial decision that the bank could 
legitimately make. More recently,  she noted  that promises had been made to consider
Ref: DRN5231130making new facilities available, but that didnt mean  the bank  had promised to lend or 
was now obliged to lend.
The investigator concluded with a general  comment about Mrs Gs claim for consequential  
business losses. She noted  how Mrs G felt that but for the withdrawal of the overdraft and 
the application of adverse  credit  file entries, shed have been able to get the credit her 
business needed from time to time at reasonable rates. Barclays had paid out a lot of 
compensation already and having considered  Mrs Gs evidence,  she didnt think  more was 
justified. Bearing  in mind that whatever  else happened, the credit file entries  for the 
Barclayloan and Select loan would always have  been there, it was reasonable to conclude 
Mrs Gs ability to get credit would still have  been  impacted.
Two other matters that had been  mentioned in Barclays final response were covered off 
briefly; disputes over a life insurance policy and an investment had been dealt with 
separately by the bank  in 2017, seemingly  to Mrs Gs satisfaction.  There was nothing further 
for the investigator  to say on these.
Barclays was in broad agreement  with the investigators view, albeit with one caveat; it 
remained of the view that the credit file entries  in respect of the mortgage current account  
should remain as they are. Mrs G wasnt happy  with any of the investigators  conclusions, 
and so the case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  paying  particular  attention to
Mrs Gs 11-page response to the investigators  view - to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ive a number  of general observations to make
about my approach to the complaint before dealing with the substance of it.
I dont doubt that Mrs G is unhappy that two different  investigators have dealt with her case.  
Its sometimes necessary  that cases are reassigned. Its also appropriate that when a case 
is reassigned, the new case-handler should review the case  in its entirety rather  than 
assume that whats gone before is right. Nonetheless, Im sorry that Mrs Gs case has taken 
so long to get to where it is.
Mrs G has raised  additional concerns about how the investigator dealt with the complaint; 
amongst other things,  shes said she could have dealt with the BF loan herself without 
involving her solicitor  if wed handled things better. We have a process for dealing with 
consumers concerns about how weve handled things, so thats something that will be
picked up and dealt  with separately by the investigators manager. Here,  though,  my focus is 
on the subject  matter of the underlying complaint against Barclays.
Mrs G is upset that the proposed outcome isnt what she hoped  for; and thats 
understandable. Shes told us she intends to instruct a barrister  to mediate with Barclays  and 
go to the press, which is her prerogative.  But shes also said we havent taken all of her 
arguments properly  into account, but have instead shown bias in favour  of Barclays. I assure 
her thats  not the case.
Our rules require us to determine a complaint  by considering all of the evidence  from both 
parties in order to decide whats fair in all the circumstances. Weve had this case  since  
April 2018, and the current investigator issued  her informal  view on the complaint in
Ref: DRN5231130October 2018. Im satisfied Mrs G has had ample opportunity to argue her case and supply 
any evidence that she thinks  we should take into account.
Where the available evidence is contradictory, incomplete, or even  missing  altogether,  we 
reach our conclusions on the basis of what is most likely to have happened  on the balance 
of probabilities. Thats the same approach that the courts use in civil cases.  Im satisfied 
thats what the investigator did, and Ive adopted the same  approach  myself.  That said,  my 
findings are my own, and based on my assessment of all the evidence from both sides. 
Having read what  the parties have sent in, Im satisfied I have everything I need to reach  a 
fair decision.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police  their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides  instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint.
Im aware theres been a lot of discussion on both sides about  how much of Mrs Gs 
complaint we would or wouldnt be dealing with. To be clear, its for us alone to decide  that. 
We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone 
else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman service, which are 
known as the DISP  Rules,  and the remit those rules  give us. The relevance  here is that the 
rules prevent  us from looking into some  of what Mrs G is complaining  about.
One example  of this is that the rules allow us to decide not to look again at a complaint if 
weve looked at it before. Mrs G brought the complaint about the mortgage account to us in
2015. As this was dealt  with in 2016,  we havent looked at it again  here.  Also, she brought a 
complaint to us in 2010 about the VAT refund and bond issue  that she says is linked to the 
withdrawal of the overdraft in 2009.  That was determined by an ombudsman,  and so wont 
be revisited here. Theres also been an extensive debate about whether and to what extent  
wed be dealing with BF loan. Ill come to that in due course.
Much of Mrs Gs argument  relates to certain things Mr T apparently  offered to do, which the 
bank is now saying its not obliged and/or required to do. Mrs G says the legal advice shes 
received is that Barclays must do everything Mr T apparently said it would. Its always 
possible a court might take that view,  but were an informal alternative to the courts,  and my 
role is to decide whats fair and reasonable.
The starting point  here is that a business isnt automatically required to honour everything a 
staff member has said; a business can, after all, change  its mind. Everything has a context, 
and I have to take account  of the individual circumstances and whether  the alleged  promise 
relates to an activity a bank might be expected to carry  out in the normal course of its 
business. Its for me to decide whether or not Mr Ts comments  mean Barclays is now 
obligated to do something for Mrs G that normally it wouldnt have to do.
Lastly, before addressing the merits of the underlying complaint, its worth reiterating that, 
generally speaking,  its not the role of the ombudsman to interfere with or otherwise
second-guess the decisions that banks make on how much theyll lend, and to whom theyll  
lend it. Thats a matter for banks commercial judgement. Borrowing money isnt a right, and 
even where  credit has been provided before, a bank isnt obliged to continue  providing  it if to 
do so no longer meets the banks  commercial objectives.
Ref: DRN5231130I make this point here because, when  I turn to the merits of the underlying complaint, it 
seems to me that this complaint is, to all intents  and purposes, book-ended by two lending 
decisions on Barclays part. These  are the decision to withdraw the business overdraft 
facility in 2009 and the refusal, at least to date, to make  new overdraft facilities available.
A large proportion  of Mrs Gs response  to the investigators view is devoted to disputing the
2009 lending  decision, and the impact of it on her business, and her more  recent  efforts to 
get new funding. So I do understand  how deeply she feels about this. But it would be entirely 
wrong for me to adopt Mrs Gs commercial  judgement and impose it on Barclays,  by telling it 
that it was wrong and should have made different lending  decisions. Thats  not what an 
ombudsman is meant  to do.
The same applies with the requests Mrs G has made for a new business overdraft. Im very 
aware she feels the banks unwillingness to lend again is down to her credit file entries; but 
thats not the banks position.  It says that, credit file entries aside, it doesnt have confidence 
in Mrs Gs business plans, however cogently-argued  they are. That may be unwelcome for 
Mrs G to hear, but its not unfair; its an exercise  of commercial judgement that Barclays  can 
legitimately make without interference from me.
Regarding the loan from BF, Mrs G says she now intends to take this to court,  as shes 
concerned by delays  caused by the bank misleading  her legal team  on whether were 
dealing with it. I cant get involved  in whats being  said between the bank and Mrs Gs legal
team; however, insofar as its part of what was presented to me to review,  Ill still address the 
point, as far as our rules  allow  me to, if only for completeness. My doing so wont prejudice 
any court  action Mrs G now intends to take against  BF.
Mrs G has characterised Barclays role in this as recommending she take it out. I appreciate  
Mrs G sees it in those terms,  but it isnt actually what happened.  The bank had an affiliation  
with F and introduced Mrs G to it. Mrs G did speak  to F, and it arranged the secured loan
with BF. In other words,  Barclays  referred Mrs G to another business, which in turn arranged 
a loan for her. The activity of referring a person to another business isnt an activity  covered 
by our rules. Thats why we havent  looked at the role Barclays  played in the taking out of the 
BF loan.
Its worth also mentioning  that Mrs G must have understood that the loan with BF was 
arranged by F, and not by Barclays, as she and Mr G complained to us in 2017 that F had 
mis-sold the loan by charging excessive fees that werent brought to their attention. We 
werent able to look at that complaint because it was referred  to us outside  the time limits 
allowed in our rules. But its reasonable to infer from the fact the complaint was made that 
Mrs G knows that the recommendation to take out the loan came  from F, not from Barclays.
All I can consider regarding the BF loan is whether Barclays has an obligation to help Mrs G 
identify and alter alleged irregularities in the contract with BF. Thats  not a service  a bank 
normally provides, and notwithstanding any inferences Mrs G has drawn from comments
Mr T made, its not something I can fairly require Barclays to do. Its actually something
Mrs G would  need to pursue with BF directly,  in court if need be, and her most recent emails 
confirm thats what  shes  now planning  to do.
By contrast, the provision of information  to credit reference agencies  is something that 
Barclays does do in the normal course  of business.  That allows  me to view Mr Ts comments  
on this issue differently. Mr T agreed  to clear the credit file entries on the mortgage  and
Ref: DRN5231130current account, as part of implementing the settlement recommended  by our adjudicator in 
respect of the 2016 mortgage complaint.
Interestingly, clearing  the credit file entries  wasnt part of what  the adjudicator 
recommended, and to be clear, Im not saying it should have been. But insofar as Mr T 
chose to include that in the package of measures to implement the adjudicators  
recommended settlement,  Im persuaded entries on both the mortgage  and the linked 
current account should have been cleared.  They should also have been cleared in 
November 2016  when Mr T expedited  the other measures.
The investigator in the current complaint assessed compensation for the confusion over 
clearing the mortgage  current  account  entries  at £250, and for the overall  delay in clearing 
the entries for both parts of the mortgage  at £750. Thats  £1,000 in total, and in all the 
circumstances, I find that to be fair.
I now turn to the point  about consequential business losses. Underpinning this is the belief 
on Mrs Gs part that her business earnings were  diminished over many years by the 
withdrawal of the original  business overdraft, and the obstacles  put in her way by the various  
adverse credit file entries that meant she couldnt  get competitively-priced finance from 
alternative sources. Shes provided a spreadsheet listing the profit she did make alongside 
figures for the profit  her accountant thinks she would have made.
I should say that my consideration of this is not based on what  Mr T may or may not have 
said; its based on whether theres a genuine case  for Barclays to answer. Mrs G didnt just 
try to borrow from Barclays; she applied  successfully to BF and MB (albeit the latter wasnt  
for her business)  but shes also mentioned her unsuccessful attempts to borrow from other  
financial institutions, peer-to-peer lenders,  and through the government start-up initiative. In 
her response to the investigators  view, Mrs G argues with some force that her
credit-worthiness would have been  viewed  differently by all potential creditors if only the
Barclayloan and Select Loan  had been  reported  on her credit file.
Its quite possible that some credit file entries  are viewed  more severely than others. But I 
cant know that for sure,  and nor can I safely judge how likely it is; ultimately, each potential  
creditor will have  its own view of these things. Its important to remember that Barclays own 
refusal to fund Mrs Gs business was to do with reservations over her business plans rather  
than her credit history.
Its equally possible that other  potential  lenders,  even those relatively  untroubled by adverse 
credit file entries, would  still made an evaluation  of the business prospects  before deciding 
whether to lend or not. It cant be assumed that any such  evaluations would have been 
positive.
The lender  that was willing to provide business-related finance, BF, is one that is less risk 
averse in its commercial judgement, but thats  reflected in the pricing  of its finance. Even if 
Mrs G hadnt got the adverse  entries on her credit  file (or indeed,  if shed only had the 
Barclayloan and Select Loan  entries), potential  lenders may still have viewed her business 
as a high risk to lend to.
These things cant be known for sure, nor can they be guessed or assumed. But the very 
fact that these  broad-ranging uncertainties exist is enough for me to conclude that when  it 
comes to a claim  for consequential business losses, theres no case for Barclays  to answer.
Ref: DRN5231130I make one further  point;  similar arguments  could  be used in respect of .the claim for 
consequential personal losses, and I suspect  thats what happened  after Mr Y took the case 
over from Mr T and looked  at it with fresh eyes. The bank,  it seems,  came to the view that it 
had agreed a redress payment for which it might not ultimately have been liable. I dont 
express a view either way; insofar as Barclays paid the personal claim in any event,  I dont 
need to. But I can understand why the bank would have been keen to avoid a similar 
situation regarding  the business  claim.
To summarise; the findings  Ive made  are that:
 The withdrawal of overdraft funding in 2009  that Mrs G says severely  damaged her 
business was a commercial decision for the bank  that I shouldnt  interfere  with;
 The banks failure to help with the mortgage  in 2011 was dealt with by us in 2016. I 
havent revisited what the bank agreed  to do to settle that complaint, but Ive awarded  
Mrs G compensation because some  of the things the bank agreed to do werent done or 
werent done quickly enough;
 The award the bank made for personal consequential  losses  has (with one exception,  
the tax certificates, which Ive said the business  needs to do again) been  applied as 
promised to Mrs G.
 Theres no case for Barclays to answer  regarding the consequential  business loss claim,  
regardless of what Mr T may have said;
 Barclays isnt responsible for Mrs G taking  out the BF loan, and doesnt have to help her 
renegotiate it, regardless of what Mr T may have said; and
 Whether or not Barclays approves  new business finance for Mrs G is matter  for its 
commercial judgement, not mine.
I said at the outset  that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those  matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome.  I can see from her submissions the intensity with which Mrs G has brought  the 
complaint. She sees error or wrong-doing in almost  everything the bank has done (or not 
done). Indeed, thats encapsulated  in a single sentence, where Mrs G says the bank is the 
catalyst of all of my financial problems.
Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements  or comments that appear to support a particular  view point, 
whilst at the same  time paying less attention  to those that support the opposite viewpoint.
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may, I have to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes  taking a step back 
and focussing  on the broader  picture.  Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I cant  find in 
Mrs Gs favour to the extent that shes seeking, however much  shed like me to.
Mrs G doesnt  have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Mrs Gs right to take legal action against Barclays  over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of the complaint.
Ref: DRN5231130K821x#15my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above,  is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  
In full and final settlement,  I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
 pay Mrs G £1,000;
 remove adverse entries  from her and Mrs Gs respective credit  files in respect of 
the mortgage current account; and
 if it hasnt already, issue fresh tax certificates  in respect of the tax deductions made  
from the October 2016 personal losses settlement.  I make no other  order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means  
Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5231130