K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a credit card. Mr V says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think Capital One made it clear that Mr V didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand if he cant  
remember this. I say this having seen a copy of Mr Vs postal application form for the credit  
card. This shows there were equally prominent  yes and no options for PPI, and theres 
nothing to suggest Mr V had to tick yes for PPI in order to get the credit. And this 
application was completed by Mr V in his own space  and time, so he made  this decision 
freely and without any involvement from Capital One, other than the provision of the form 
itself. Mr V signed and returned the application form, so I think  this reflected what  he wanted  
at the time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V so it didnt have to check  if the policy  was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr V got the information he needed  to decide if the 
PPI was right for him. 
Mr V says he wasnt given any information about the terms and condition of the policy. And I 
agree the information Capital One gave Mr V about  the PPI wasnt clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr V says he doesnt believe he needed  the cover and he wouldve had some sick pay and 
savings at the time. But upon a successful  claim the policy  wouldve  paid 10% of Mr Vs 
outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 months.  And this wouldve paid out in addition to 
his sick pay and savings.  So these funds couldve been used for other expenses. I also think  
Mr V wouldve  found this policy particularly useful when his sick pay reduced to half pay. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ref: DRN50064622Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5006462