K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds decision to turn 
down her claim following  a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS).
Mrs P is being represented by her husband  Mr P. 
background
Mrs and Mr P joined his employers scheme,  provided through L&G, in December 2017. In 
July 2018, Mrs P was sadly  diagnosed with MS, and submitted a claim.
L&G considered her claim form. It noted  that when asked if shed had any history  of similar 
or related conditions,  Mrs P had answered  that shed experienced partial loss of limb control  
for a period  of time in 2006 and occasional feelings  of numbness in 2013.  It therefore turned 
down the claim, explaining that the policy excluded claims in the first two years  of cover if the 
insured person has suffered an associated  condition in the past. It also set out that both 
numbness of the extremities and weakness or clumsiness of a limb are considered 
associated with MS.
Mrs and Mr P disagreed, and asked  L&G to reconsider. It obtained more evidence about  
Mrs Ps medical history  and from the consultant whod diagnosed her. But this didnt change 
its decision.
Mrs P referred the complaint to our service, arguing  that her previous symptoms werent 
persistent and hadnt been diagnosed as MS. She also noted shed been  successfully 
treated on both occasions with acupuncture, and didnt think the symptoms were  related to 
MS. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt the policy terms were typical of this kind 
of cover,  set out clearly,  and didnt require that the associated symptoms be persistent  
only that Mrs P was aware of them before joining the scheme. He thought it was reasonable 
for L&G to consider them connected to Mrs Ps MS.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They argued  that the earlier symptoms could be anything   and 
suggested they would also be consistent  with a hernia of the neck. They didnt  think it was 
reasonable for L&G to conclude the earlier  symptoms were more  likely than not to be 
connected to the diagnosis  of MS. They felt the terms as written would make it almost  
impossible to claim for any neurological  conditions.
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I was sorry to read of Mrs Ps condition and I realise this will be very 
disappointing for her and Mr P. Id like to assure them that I havent  taken this decision 
lightly. Ill explain why below. 
Ref: DRN53442882Ive looked at the related  condition definition in the terms and conditions of the policy. Having 
done so, Im satisfied its clear. And because the scheme isnt underwritten, Mrs P wasnt 
required to provide details of her medical history  when she joined. So, its understandable 
that L&G will include terms in the policy  to consider claims for undiagnosed conditions that 
members of the scheme might already have when they join. And this service doesnt 
consider these terms to be unreasonable in policies such as this. 
The policy goes on to list Multiple Sclerosis  with persisting symptoms under associated 
conditions. And this description appears elsewhere in the policy wording. So Im satisfied 
this doesnt mean that the associated  conditions only apply if there are persisting symptoms.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Mrs P had episodes of these symptoms in 2006 and 
2013, before  she joined  the scheme  in 2017. And theyre listed in the policy specifically  
because they are common early signs of MS. Mrs P sadly went on to be diagnosed  with the 
disease. And the consultant who diagnosed her wrote in a report to L&G that, whilst Mrs Ps 
2006 symptoms  were not investigated, they were likely to be consistent . So, Im satisfied 
L&G has fairly decided  her symptoms and diagnosis are linked. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said the acupuncture which treated the earlier  symptoms  isnt an 
approved treatment for MS. However,  Mrs Ps condition  can cause symptoms that appear 
and disappear over time. And while Ive carefully  considered their argument  that some  other  
condition may have caused her symptoms, I havent  seen any medical evidence thats 
persuaded me that was actually the case,  or which suggest the earlier symptoms werent 
related to her later MS diagnosis. 
So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to apply the exclusion and decline this claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5344288