K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent 
money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Based on the information, Satsuma Loans  provided Mr K with three instalment loans 
between March and September 2018.  
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 12/03/2018 01/07/2018 3 £100
2 04/05/2018 08/10/2018 9 £1,500
3 09/09/2018 08/10/2018 3 £300
Mr K says that at the time of the loans  he was not able to access other  credit. He says that 
he had a number  of other loans outstanding  and his credit file showed he was missing 
payments and had defaults recorded.  He also says that he was gambling at the time.
Satsuma Loans  says that before loans  are provided it gathers a range of information from 
both the customer  and other sources.  It says before lending to Mr K it carried out sufficient 
affordability and credit  checks and that based on these the loans appeared affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  to say that loans one and two shouldnt have 
been provided. However she thought  that the checks  carried out suggested  the repayments 
on loan three, when combined with the repayments  on loan two, werent affordable. She 
thought that had proportionate checks been carried out before  loan three was provided  then 
these would have  shown Mr K was having problems managing his money. 
Mr K didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that all the loans were  provided 
irresponsibly. He said that at the time of the loans he was in a debt management plan, was 
gambling, and had several  outstanding  short term loans with other  providers.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN57683332the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr K could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans one and two shouldnt  
have been provided. As these were the first two loans  in the lending chain and given the size 
of the repayments  compared to Mr Ks income  I find that the checks  carried out before the 
loans were provided were  sufficient.  As these  didnt raise concerns to suggest  the lending  
was unsustainable,  I agree with our adjudicator that there  isnt enough evidence to say these 
loans shouldnt have  been provided.
Loan three was provided while loan two was still outstanding. The combined  monthly  
repayments totalled around £481. Mr Ks declared income at the time of this loan was 
£2,350. He had recorded expenses of £1,465. Additional to this, Satsuma Loans had 
assessed that safeguards of a further £462  should  be applied  and an expenses buffer of 
£33. This gave a revised disposable income  of £390. As this was below the combined 
repayment amount  for loans two and three,  I find that Satsuma  Loans  should have been 
concerned that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable. Therefore I do not find that loan three  
should have been provided.
Ref: DRN57683333My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan three. Provident Personal  
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans)  should:
A.add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr K towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loan three, including payments made  to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything  that has already been refunded;
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr K which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr K originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C.pay Mr K the total of A plus B;
D.remove any adverse information  that has been recorded on Mr Ks credit  file in 
relation to loan three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma 
Loans) to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr K a certificate showing how much  
tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5768333