K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Mi Vehicle Finance Limited  have  refused to let her reject a car.
background
In May 2017  Mrs M bought a second  hand car with some 14,000  miles on the clock, 
although the sales and finance agreement says it had done only 8,000 miles. She funded  
this by means of a part exchange and a hire purchase agreement  with Mi. 
She says the car had numerous issues and she called the garage frequently.  It kept fobbing 
her off and eventually agreed to look at the car at its next service.  After the annual service,  
the problems with the car werent  fixed and she contacted Mi and said the car had the 
following issues with it:
Automatic wipers  unreliable.
Rear heated windscreen broken.
Car misfiring.
Fuel gage not moving when filling up the car.
Microphone unclear when talking.
Parking sensors going  off erratically.
Steering making grinding noise.
Moisture in the back left light.
Mi arranged for the car to be repaired  by the garage, but Mrs M says that the car was still 
faulty when returned to her. It organised an independent inspection and this resulted in two 
reports which concluded:
Upon testing the engine for 15 minutes,  there was an intermittent metallic tapping  
noise from the fuel injector area. The inspector couldnt confirm  the exact  cause of 
the condition and stated that further  diagnostics would require dismantling.
The front and rear parking sensors displayed intermittent function.
The top and bottom  four elements of the heated windscreen did not work and clear 
the screen in an appropriate manner.
The inspector concluded that: On the balance of probability, the conditions would not have 
been developing at finance inception.  From a strict  engineering perspective, it's more likely  
these faults have presented in the last 1000 miles of use.
Mi said that on the basis of the reports there were no grounds to uphold a rejection. Mrs M 
brought her complaint  to this service where  it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommended  it be upheld.
She saw that the inspector had presumed the car had only done 8,000  when it was bought 
and she asked if the correct mileage of over 14,000 had any bearing on the reports. The 
inspector concluded it didnt.  She noted  that Mrs M had been contact with the garage in the 
months after purchase and this had been confirmed by email acknowledgements. The 
record didnt show what the reason  for the contact was, but it supported Mrs M claims she 
had been asking the garage to deal with the various faults. She thought  this indicated they 
were present  at the point of sale. 
She also noted that the parking sensors  were repaired by the garage before  Mrs M bought 
the car and felt this indicated an underlying problem. She concluded  that Mrs M had paid 
Ref: DRN54295912over £17,000 for a relatively low mileage car and it was reasonable to presume it to be of a 
high quality. However, she didnt think this was the case and suggested that Mi should:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mrs M
refund  the deposit (including  the value of her part exchanged car) and pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment  until the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ms credit file.
MI didnt agree and supplied response  from the garage. This disputed that the claimed  faults 
existed and said the car had been  examined  by two third party  garages to look at the 
misfiring and they found no faults.  The garage said that the faults with the steering and 
moisture in the light hadnt been  raised  with it. It also disputed  Mrs Ms claims that she had 
not been given the help she requested. 
I asked for copies of reports from the third party garages, but after some considerable time 
neither could be provided. Mrs M checked  with one which said it had no record  of examining 
the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Mi is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is clear to me that Mrs M is unhappy with the car and has encountered  some problems, but 
I need to consider whether these  were present at the point of sale.  I have reviewed the 
invoices Mrs M has supplied  showing the warranty work carried out. These show  that strut 
rubbers were replaced to address the grinding noise connected to the steering. It also 
carried out diagnostics  for the misfiring  and this showed there was problem which was 
Ref: DRN54295913traced to the injectors. These were removed and cleaned and a subsequent test showed  
they were satisfactory.
There is a note of Mrs Ms concerns about the hands-free system, the fuel gauge  not 
registering and the parking sensors  going  off intermittently. There  is no mention of a repair  
for these  issues. The automatic wipers were repaired and the battery  was replaced.
Recently Mrs M has said that the car continues to misfire, the rear window demister  doesnt  
work and the parking sensors  still dont work properly.  She also told us it had failed  its MOT. 
The online records  show  that this was due to the front brake  pads being  too thin. It passed a 
second test two days later and the record shows that at the end of February  2019  it had 
done 33,895 miles.  I would add for the avoidance  of doubt that a MOT pass  doesnt  mean  
the engine was satisfactory. 
In its response to the investigators view the dealer said no fault was found with the wipers,  
though I note that the invoice shows it carried out some work on these. It believed the 
windscreen demister was caused by Mrs Ms dog. It said Mrs M had told it that she put in 
small amounts of fuel and so that may be why the fuel gauge  didnt move.  The parking 
sensors were working as expected and it wasnt aware of the steering noise, even though  an 
invoice shows this as being repaired.  It added that it wasnt aware of the moisture in the rear 
light. Finally it said no misfiring fault could  be found  by it or two other independent garages.
I have some difficulty with this response  given it contains a number of inaccuracies.  However  
I am satisfied that the dealer did make some repairs.
Turning now to the independent report this confirms that: we would consider based  on the 
available evidence and due to the nature  of the faults. that the conditions  identified  would not 
have been a preexisting defect for 14,000  miles.  From a strict  engineering  perspective,  it's 
more likely these faults have presented in the last 1.000 miles of use." From this it seems  
there are some faults, but the engineer cannot  say that they were  present at the point of 
sale. The engineer has confirmed the incorrect mileage supplied  made  no difference  to his 
conclusions.
The concern  I have is with the misfiring  engine.  The invoice  presented  to me shows that 
work was done  to the injectors  on 15 December 2017 and that the engine  tested  ok after 
that. But the independent report dated  13 February  2018 says that: the vehicle  requires 
checking to the fuel injectors  in particular cylinder  2. It is clear there was an issue with the 
engine which hadnt been properly addressed by the December repair.  The car had done 
some 1684  miles between the two events and this undermines  the engineers conclusions 
that the problem would only have  arisen  in the last 1,000 miles.
I am loathe to go against an independent report,  but I have to take into account all the 
evidence and it seems  that there was a problem  with the injectors in late 2017  which  wasnt 
fully resolved. Given Mrs Ms testimony, which I consider to be credible, I believe she was 
having problems  in the months after she acquired  the car. I have taken into account  the 
arguments put forward by Mi and I have some sympathy  with its point of view. However, I 
believe that on the balance of probability the car was suffering a problem at the point of sale.   
Ref: DRN54295914my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mi Vehicle Finance to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mrs M;
refund  the deposit (including  the value of her part exchanged car, assuming there  
was no outstanding finance  on it) and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ms credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5429591