K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint  is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr M took out in 2002. It 
was sold to him in store.  Its been  agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer,  should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr M didnt agree. 
His representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
The PPI policy wasnt discussed and Mr M was just told where to sign on the application 
form  the member of staff marked the boxes with crosses.
Mr M wouldnt have taken the PPI if hed been given the option because he didnt want 
it. He was entitled  to statutory sick pay and couldve relied on his wife to meet the 
repayments if he couldnt  work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr M says PPI wasnt discussed. FICL says it wouldve got his consent before adding cover  
to his account. Where  theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened - taking into account all the evidence  thats  
available.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy  was taken out. 
But looking  at a copy of Mr Ms application  form, I can see theres a section headed
"Protecting your Account". Above the signature  box it says, Yes, I want my Account covered 
by Payment Protection Insurance (subject  to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly  premium  until further  notice.  It looks like the member  of staff put a cross by 
the signature box. But Mr M wouldve had the opportunity to review  and query  anything  on 
the application he wasnt sure about before he signed it. So, overall,  I think  its most likely 
FICL made Mr M aware he had a choice  about buying the policy  and he chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for 
him.
Ref: DRN58306262Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But overall I dont think Mr M has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong 
because:
He was eligible for the policy.
It looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M told us he wouldve received statutory sick pay if he couldnt  work due to sickness 
or an accident. But under the terms of the policy it wouldve paid out until he returned to 
work if hed made a successful claim. The policy also covered him if hed become 
unemployed. Although hes told us his wife couldve covered the repayments if he 
couldnt work,  its likely  her money wouldve been  needed for other, priority bills. So I think  
that, on balance,  the PPI couldve  been  a useful benefit for Mr M.
Mr M says he suffered  from a shortness of breath, caused by his working  conditions.  
I dont think this condition  wouldve  been  covered under the terms of the policy but, from 
the information hes provided, I dont think this wouldve made  a difference  to his decision 
to take the policy.  I say this because hes told us he didnt let the condition  affect his daily 
life. It doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the other exclusions or limits on the PPI 
cover, so I dont think having any more information  about these wouldve changed his 
decision to take the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5830626