K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss B applied for the policy and mortgage in 1999  shortly before the mortgage and policy  
started in 2000.  She applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Miss B for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £335.07  a month towards  Miss Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £17.75 a month. 
At the time,  Miss B was employed  as a secretary PA. She has told us she was entitled  to 
employee sick pay of between three and six months if she was too unwell to work. She didnt  
tell us of any other financial  means, such as savings, she could have relied upon to make  
the mortgage repayments if she wasnt working. Miss B was entitled  to redundancy pay if 
she lost her job as well as death in service  benefit. Miss B was in good health at the time of 
the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2006. 
Miss Bs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Bs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Miss B about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss B and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN52454582The information Miss B received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN52454583I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Bs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Miss B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss B and 
BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN52454584did Miss B know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Miss B has said it was included  as 
part of the mortgage package.
BoS has been able to give us some of the documentation from the time of the sale. This 
includes a copy of the Mortgage  Repayments  Insurance Application  which  is separate 
from the mortgage application itself  and has been signed and dated  by Miss B. The form 
has been pre-populated and which I think came about as a result  of questions being  asked 
at the meeting. It recorded details about  Miss Bs personal circumstances such  has her 
employment and health. If Miss B hadnt  wanted the policy, I would not have expected  her to 
have engaged in answering  these questions or signed the application. If she hadnt  wanted 
it, I would have expected her not to have  completed the application  and she could have 
taken the mortgage without the PPI.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage quotation document  which includes a separate  section 
about the monthly cost of the mortgage.  It also gives details of the monthly cost of the policy  
so I think Miss B would have been aware  it was a separate cost and not included as part of 
the mortgage package.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss B knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Miss B hasnt given  us her recollection  of whether advice was given. BoS has said it did give 
advice. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Miss B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Miss B. The adviser would most  likely have had information about some of Miss Bs financial  
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  some  questions were asked 
to try and establish whether Miss B had a need for the policy   by asking questions about  
her wider  circumstances such as any health issues   I dont think it did enough to ensure the 
PPI was suitable. I havent seen anything that suggests Miss Bs other  financial means such  
as her employee benefits were taken into account. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss B given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss B met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN52454585-Miss B had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Miss Bs ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Miss B was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay and 
redundancy benefits she says she would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss B. There  
was nothing about Miss Bs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Miss B be disabled or unemployed for 
30 days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum 
of 24 months for each  claim, it still provided valuable  cover  given: Miss Bs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her 
home and the potential  consequences should  Miss B be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.  And Miss B was solely  responsible 
for making the mortgage repayments. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Miss B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss B was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss B would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and the monthly premium was given  in 
the mortgage quotation document.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Miss B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss B, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Miss B all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Bs representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN52454586PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Bs representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss B has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Miss B? To what extent did Miss B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss B. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss B, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Miss B would have  acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Miss B says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
Ref: DRN52454587product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Bs circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Miss B was given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Miss B would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Miss Bs expectations  about  
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss B be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up 24 months,  rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss B pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss B from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss B was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss B wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss B didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss B 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss B from taking out the policy, Miss B, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN52454588If Miss B had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss B was unable  (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Miss B that any claim she made  would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 24 
months was a longer period than Miss B would have received full sick pay for, and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss B would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss B be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Miss Bs sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss B would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Miss B was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss B would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN52454589proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Miss B compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss B thinks BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Miss B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Bs representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss B and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss B in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5245458