K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about what  Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) did when she told it about a 
problem with her boiler.
background
Ms M rang our service in July 2018 to say that she hadnt had any hot water  or heating since  
that morning.  She said that shed called her home  emergency insurance provider, IPA, but it 
had told her that there was an intermittent fault,  and it wouldnt attend due to issues involving 
a third party. She said that shes only ever used third party  repairers provided by her insurer. 
Ms M said that the problem had been  ongoing  since December, and after fracturing her 
knee, the cold was making her recovery worse. 
IPA said that Ms M had rung it on 25 February,  to say that she had no hot water.  It had sent 
an engineer the same  day, but it said that Ms M refused to open the door. Its engineer  went 
back the next day, and there  was no answer at the home. It said that Ms M had said at one 
point she was going to get her own engineer, but then asked IPA again  to send someone 
out. IPA said that it had rung Ms M about the problem. It wanted  to check if she needed 
heaters, or somewhere else to stay, but she didnt  answer her phone.  Ms M had contacted  
IPA to complain about this in early March.
IPA said that Ms M had rung again on 21 March, to say that the boiler  had failed again. It 
said it would  send a senior engineer. Shortly after this, IPAs  notes say that it had offered to 
pay if Ms M got her own engineer. IPAs  notes also show  that it now has difficulty getting 
engineers to attend Ms Ms property,  because they said that Ms M was aggressive and rude. 
Ms M contacted IPA again at the end of April, to say that the problem was still ongoing. She 
couldnt get her own engineer out, and still wanted  IPA to fix the problem. IPA said it would  
send someone again.  But it said that it hadnt  managed to get in touch with Ms M to set up 
an engineers  visit. She wasnt  answering  calls, and hadnt responded to voicemails. 
IPA said it had talked  to Ms M about the problems shed had. She said that when she rings, 
an engineer should come out right away. She shouldnt have to stay in to wait for them. She 
didnt think that some work IPA had done in December had been  done properly. And she 
said that she hadnt rung about the problem for a couple of months because  she had been  
bed-bound. 
IPA said that it had reviewed the service that it had provided then. It had looked particularly 
at what had happened in February. It said it had rung Ms M on the number shed asked it to 
use, before  its engineer attended. And its engineer had attended  promptly, in the morning. It 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It was a couple of months after this that Ms M rang 
our service.  
IPA said that it didnt know if the problem was fixed or not. Ms M hadnt been  back  in touch 
to set up an engineers  visit, and she also hadnt  sent in any claim to be reimbursed for the 
cost of having the problem fixed.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that hed considered  the policy, which  
said that IPA would provide a repair service as soon as possible,  unless there  were  practical  
problems which prevented its repairer  from entering the home.  He thought  that it was 
Ref: DRN58602342reasonable to consider that what had happened were issues that made it impractical  for IPA 
to provide the service. And IPA had offered Ms M alternative arrangements. So our 
investigator didnt  think  that IPA had failed to provide a service.  
He also said that the insurance was only supposed to cover home emergencies.  He said that 
only covers a complete  boiler failure,  not a partial  failure or intermittent problems. And he 
thought that if Ms M had been completely without hot water or heating  for a prolonged 
period, then she would probably  have been in contact with IPA more often. So he thought 
that it was reasonable for IPA to question whether this was actually a home emergency. 
Our investigator said that the issues that Ms M had told us about from December 2017 were  
different to those shed  told IPA about  more  recently, so he didnt think  that the problems had 
been going on for that long. 
Ms M said that shed  read the first paragraph or so of our investigators letter, and it was 
inappropriate and inaccurate.  She said that shed told us that IPA lied, and we had just 
repeated its lies. She said that she hadnt  refused  the engineers entry. She said that IPA 
was told that she would  be out after 9am. She was away when the engineer  attended. She 
said neighbours hadnt seen the engineer, and there was no card left. 
Ms M said that shed  stayed with a neighbour for a while,  whilst  the properly was cold. She 
said that IPA had offered to pay for a hotel, but she couldnt get to one easily with an injured 
knee. Ms M said that shed had an engineer out again, he had got the boiler  working whilst 
waiting for parts to arrive, but then never came back. And another engineer had told her that 
the motherboard  was too expensive to replace.  
Ms M said shed complained to her broker, and it had agreed she had been  lied to. It had 
offered to pay for an engineer. She wanted them to pay for what shed outlaid, as she pays 
for the cover. And she said that she had spoken  to the manufacturers engineer, who had 
said that the problem was just not enough pressure in the system, which was solved by 
topping up the water tank. She said that she was frustrated that this was all that was 
required but IPA still said it was an intermittent fault. She said that it wasnt an intermittent 
fault, boilers by their very nature now and then stop working, which is why she had taken the 
insurance. And she said that even if it was an intermittent fault, theres nothing in the policy 
that says she isnt covered for that.
Our investigator said that if Ms M would  like to send us any evidence  that what  IPA had told 
us was untruthful, she could do that. And he confirmed that her policy didnt  provide cover  for 
partial failures, which included intermittent faults. He sent Ms M the relevant  excerpt  from her 
policy document. Ms M replied to say that she didnt have a partial  failure, she had a total 
failure with no heating and no hot water. She said shed paid someone else to get it working.  
This case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Ms M has home and heating emergency  cover  provided by IPA. That covers  her for a 
complete boiler  breakdown.
Ref: DRN58602343Ms M has told us that the problem she has had with her heating system  has finally been 
identified and fixed. Im glad to hear that. But she said the problem was ongoing for a very 
long time,  from December 2017 to at least July 2018. She also told us that she had a total 
failure of her hot water and heating. But IPAs notes from December 2017 say that there was 
a problem then,  and that her heating was left working. There was another problem with a 
leaking radiator, which wasnt covered under her insurance, so it was simply replaced.  
IPAs notes say that Ms M contacted IPA to request repairs in late February,  in late March,  
and in late April.  I know that Ms M says that IPA is just lying to us. But Ms M herself says 
that this has been going  on for a long time.  Given the length of time that Ms M says that this 
issue has been going on for, and the number of contact notes I can see from IPA, as well as 
the fact that Ms M told us her boiler  was left working in March,  I dont  think its likely that 
Ms M has been left entirely without heating or hot water during this time.  I think its more  
likely that she has an intermittent problem  with her boiler, so that it is failing from time to 
time. 
Our investigator has explained  to Ms M that an intermittent fault with a boiler isnt covered 
under her insurance.  He sent her the section  from her policy which  explains that partial 
failures arent covered. That doesnt  just mean  shes not covered if, say, only one radiator 
stops working. It also means  that shes not covered if her heating sometimes goes off and 
then comes back on again. 
I know Ms M has told us that this was a complete failure. But she also says that boilers by 
their very nature now and then stop working.  If they do stop working, but then start again, 
then thats an intermittent fault,  and it isnt covered. I think thats  likely to be what  has 
happened in this case.
Ms M also says that IPAs engineers just dont turn up. And she referred to one occasion 
specifically when the engineer didnt turn up early enough. She says she never refused to let 
them in, she just wasnt there. 
IPAs notes say that she rang very early in the morning, and wanted an engineer  there 
straight away. Ms M herself has told us that shed gone out by 9am.  I think that if Ms M 
wants an engineer  to look at her boiler, then she needs to stay in for longer than this. I dont 
think its unreasonable for an engineer  to attend after 9am, and I dont think  that IPA let 
Ms M down because it didnt send  an engineer  earlier  than that. 
I dont know if Ms M has ever actually  refused  to let an engineer into her home, because  I 
dont know if she was in her home or not each time engineers attended. But I still think  that 
our investigator was right, to say that IPA says it will provide a service, under this policy,  as 
soon as possible, unless there are other problems which prevent the repairer from entering 
Ms Ms home or make it impractical  for IPA to provide  the service. I know Ms M wont  agree 
with me on this, but I think that IPA has tried to provide her with the service  shes entitled  to 
under the policy.  I dont  think  that it has done anything  wrong.  That means I dont  think this 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN58602344Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5860234