K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited  trading  as Likely  Loans  gave her misleading 
information about a payment arrangement. She wants it to settle the loan,  make  refunds of 
payments and remove a default from her credit file.
background
Mrs K tells us she took out the loan,  for £3,000, in 2017 but fell behind with payments.  She 
says she entered  into several payment arrangements with Oakbrook, the last of which was 
in December 2018. But she says before she was able to make  any further payment it had 
sold the account to another  company Ill refer to as C. She feels  this will damage  her credit 
file as she says C will report her account  as being in default until its paid off. She says 
Oakbrook promised it would not be reported  as long as she kept to the payment 
arrangement.
Oakbrook told us it had sent Mrs K a notice of default on 6 August 2018. But it had 
subsequently agreed that she could make three payments to repay the loan. It said the first 
of these payments,  scheduled for 30 August, was returned unpaid.  So it had defaulted the 
account on 5 September.  Oakbrook explained  that when Mrs K had spoken with its call 
handler in December that agent would not have been aware of the impending sale of the 
account.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He found that 
Oakbrook had defaulted Mrs Ks account in September 2018 - after shed failed to make  a 
payment on an agreed arrangement. So when the account was later sold to C the default 
had already been recorded. He didnt think the sale to C resulted in any financial 
disadvantage to Mrs K as the account could  not be defaulted again. And he said it was a 
matter for Oakbrook if it sold the account. He accepted Oakbrook had made an error in 
taking a direct payment  - after the debt had been transferred to C. But he said the money  
had been returned to Mrs Ks account within five working days  and an apology  issued. He 
didnt think it needed to do any more.
Mrs K didnt accept this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs K has experienced problems  with repaying this debt. And I can see from 
notes of contacts with Oakbrook that she has encountered difficulties with her employment  
and accommodation  which  impacted  her ability to make repayments.
When a customer faces financial difficulty Id expect a business  to treat the customer  
positively and sympathetically and with a degree of forbearance. And I think  Oakbrook did 
this by agreeing  to various temporary payment arrangements. But I can see it had made Mrs 
K aware  that there was a real possibility of default. And on 6 August  2018 a formal  notice  to 
this effect was sent. Following this, Mrs K made  another arrangement which required a 
payment to be made by 30 August - but unfortunately this payment  was not met. 
Ref: DRN50379162Accordingly, the account was defaulted  on 5 September 2018. I dont think  Oakbrook did 
anything wrong  in taking this action.
The significance of this is that once an account is defaulted it remains  on credit reference 
agency reports for six years. The only amendments would be to show a reducing balance if 
payments were being made - and when the loan was fully repaid it would be marked as 
satisfied. But the fact that it was defaulted  will still be recorded for six years from the date of 
default.
Im aware from her latest email, of 3 July 2019,  that Mrs K feels she was treated unfairly in 
not being told the loan was being sold. And she feels this meant she was given assurances 
which were not based on the correct information. She believes this led her to make decisions 
regarding the loan which were unsafe. She questions why a company wouldnt share 
information about a customer account  with all its departments.
Im not the industry regulator  so its not for me to question internal  processes within  a 
company - and what information is shared and with whom. But Id make some  general points 
which I hope might both clarify the situation and reduce any concerns Mrs K might have.
Mrs K clearly  feels she was misled and/or should have been informed that Oakbrook had 
entered negotiations to sell her debt. But I dont  agree on either count. 
Its a purely commercial decision for a company to take - if it decides to sell a debt. And - 
particularly where  the debt is part of a larger disposal (as was the case  here) - the details are 
financially sensitive and likely to be matter  only for senior management.  So I wouldnt expect 
a call handler to be aware of any arrangements  until after the event.  And the relevant calls 
which led to the latest arrangement took place in December. The sale was not completed 
until January. So at the time of the call there  was no guarantee  the sale would go through.
I imply  no criticism of Mrs K when  I comment that the reason this complaint arises is largely 
due to unexpected circumstances and things not working out quite as she anticipated. So I 
dont think I can criticise  Oakbrook for not telling her of an event which  it expected would 
happen - but about which it could not be certain.
And having listened to the relevant calls Im satisfied that she was not informed that the 
default would not remain on her credit  file. What was being said was that if Mrs K kept to the 
arrangement the debt would not need to be returned  for alternative  collections action - which 
might include  referral  to debt collectors  and/or legal action.  And whilst Mrs K refers  to the 
possibility of her taking different decisions regarding this loan (had she known  it was to be 
sold) - I think this implies  she had a degree  of control or choice which Im not sure existed.
Of more importance  is that I dont  think whether  the debt was sold or not made any practical 
difference. Provided Mrs K kept to the terms of the arrangement. Id have expected any new 
owner to maintain the agreement until the next review date - which I understand was in 
March 2019. And at that point - whether it was Oakbrook or C - a further review would have 
been required. And as this complaint refers to Oakbrook - which  no longer owns the debt - I 
cant comment further on what might  have happened.
Ill deal briefly with another aspect which Mrs K raised and that was the taking of £100 from 
her account  in February 2019 - after the debt had been sold. This was an error which  
Oakbrook acknowledged and for which it apologised. The money  was returned within a short  
time and I shant require  it to do anything else.
Ref: DRN50379163In summary,  I do not find that Oakbrook has acted unfairly or - with the one exception  - 
made any errors. So I shant be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5037916