K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Ms and Mr L payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms and Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Ms and Mr Ls comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Ms and Mr L have said the PPI was recommended to them,  but they did not know  it had 
been added  to their account, and they wouldnt  have consented to it. However, this did 
all happen about 13 years ago, and so I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so many years ago. And Ive seen the PPI application form, 
and I can see that they have  signed  to request PPI. So I think its likely  they did know 
they had a choice and that they chose to take PPI, even  if they dont now remember that. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms and Mr L, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Ms and Mr L received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when they would need  to fall back on any other resources such as 
savings (although it seems they probably didnt  have these  at the time). This all would 
have put Ms and Mr L in a more secure position,  if they eventually  lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to suggest they 
couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its not clear how well Lloyds explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy.  But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs  would have  affected  whether 
Ms and Mr L took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Ms and Mr L would have been  affected by any of these. Its likely they were 
eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any 
time without further cost if their situation changed.
Ref: DRN58918092my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5891809