K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold  
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card in January 2004.
background
Egg was an internet based account. The policy  was added to Mrs Ms credit card account  
when she applied for the card via the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed.
Mrs M mainly says that the PPI was added without her knowledge, it wasnt explained and it 
wasnt something she needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  
I think Egg made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mrs M completed  she had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. Mrs M had to select  one of those options in order  to 
proceed with her application.  There was no automatic default option  that included  PPI -
neither of the options was pre-populated. So I think Mrs M wouldve been aware that she 
had to make  a decision about  PPI at the time - even if shes forgotten  this now.  And I think 
shed have seen  at the time that she couldve declined  PPI if she hadnt wanted it. 
On balance, I find that Mrs M knew she had a choice  about protecting her card repayments 
and PPI was added to her account when she indicated she wanted  to take it out. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs M couldve relied on getting  full sick pay for 6 months 
followed by 6 months on half pay if she was too ill to work. The policy  wouldve paid out in 
full for longer,  up to 12 months,  on top of her sick pay. Bearing  in mind that Mrs M mightve  
also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled, I think 
this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Ms credit card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs M if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
Ref: DRN51317572The PPI wouldve more  than covered  her Egg card monthly repayments  and cleared her 
card balance if shed  needed to claim for the full 12 months. So I think Mrs M couldve 
benefitted from having the policy.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look like this affected Mrs M. 
So, I dont think that knowing  more about  the conditions which limited the policys  cover for 
some people wouldve  made any difference to Mrs Ms decision to take it out. 
Next to where Mrs M was asked to decide about the PPI on the application she completed, 
the purpose of the cover  is broadly described,  the cost is set out and theres  some  
information about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Mrs M with the protection  broadly 
described on the website which shed indicated  she was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the policy  was unaffordable for her.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed  been  better  informed as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything  that Egg mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5131757