K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited hasnt paid the full 
amounts she claimed under her pet insurance  policy.
The complaint has been brought to us by Mrs Js relative on her behalf, but for simplicity Ill 
refer to all the comments  as being Mrs Js. 
My references to Red Sands include its agent.  
background
Mrs J had a lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands, with a £2,000 annual condition  
limit. 
Mrs Js dog became seriously  ill and very sadly had to be put to sleep. She made a claim to 
Red Sands  for the cost of her dogs veterinary treatment, which had been for two conditions.  
Red Sands  treated the claim as being for one condition. This meant  it paid her the annual  
condition limit of £2,000  less the £99 policy  excess.  Mrs J complained that Red Sands hadnt 
dealt properly or fairly with the claim under  the policy terms. She came  to us.
Our investigator concluded Red Sands  should treat the claim as being for separate  
conditions, which she said was in line with the treating  vets evidence. She also said Red 
Sands shouldnt have deducted the £99 policy excess from the £2,000  policy limit. 
Mrs J accepted our investigators findings, but Red Sands  disagreed. So the complaints 
come to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as those  given by our investigator.  Ill explain why. 
Mrs Js dog suffered sudden lameness due to a blockage in the blood vessels at the spinal 
cord (called fibrocartilaginous embolism or FCE). He was treated for FCE. Shortly 
afterwards he was treated  for a second  illness, called rhabdomyolysis,  which  is a metabolic 
disease affecting the muscle cells. 
Red Sands  treated the two illnesses  as one condition, which meant the claim was subject to 
one condition limit. The relevant part of the policy definitions for condition and illness  say:
Condition means any  manifestation of an illness having the same  diagnostic 
classification or resulting  from the same disease  process regardless of the number of 
incidents or areas of your pets  body affected.  Illness means  sickness, disease, infection or 
any change in your pets  normal  healthy state  which is not caused by injury.
Ive reviewed the clinical notes and the evidence given by the treating  vet, in supporting 
Mrs Js claim. 
The treating  vet said the FCE and rhabdomyolysis are two conditions,  with two separate 
disease processes.  The claim was made  for two separate conditions. The vet considered 
Ref: DRN55350932whether hypothetically it was possible  the rhabdomyolysis had been  triggered by the FCE, 
for reasons such as an underlying predisposition and the stress caused by being admitted to 
the veterinary  hospital. But the vet said a connection between  these two conditions was not 
immediately apparent . And even  if the rhabdomyolysis was triggered  by extreme  stress  
and hyperthermia  caused  by the FCE the vet said the conditions would typically  be 
considered different disease entities.
Red Sands  referred  to evidence from its consultant vet when it said the rhabdomyolysis was 
a complication of the condition of FCE. In saying  this it accepted the two conditions are not 
typically seen together.  But it said rhabdomyolysis couldnt have been  triggered by excessive 
exercise, which is the normal cause. And the treating vet accepted that the stress  caused by 
hospitalisation could  have  caused the rhabdomyolysis. 
Red Sands consultant vet said that although  rhabdomyolysis is a primary condition  in 
sporting dogs, such as Mrs Js, it can also been seen  as a secondary  complication of any 
stress or painful  condition that results  in extended  periods  of muscle exertion; for example, 
shaking, tremors, restlessness and panting. Theres no reason to believe Mrs Js dog would 
have developed rhabdomyolysis spontaneously. Rather, it developed as a complication and 
direct consequence  of his behavioural  and physical response following the acute spinal FCE. 
They were  not independent  medical conditions in this specific case,  and its fair to treat these 
conditions as part of the same medical  condition.
Ive carefully weighed all the evidence. The treating vet says that it wasnt apparent to him 
that the two conditions were connected.  And, even if the first illness triggered the second, 
I dont think Red Sands has shown the FCE and rhabdomyolysis  can properly be treated as 
one condition under  its policy; in other words, its not shown they are manifestations  of an 
illness with the same diagnostic classification or that they result from the same disease  
process. 
Even if I thought Red Sands could treat the two illnesses as one condition under the policy,  
I dont think it was fair for it to do so. The veterinary evidence is that the dogs prognosis 
from the FCE would have been good. So even if the rhabdomyolysis  was triggered by the 
FCE (and the treating vet didnt  think this was apparent) it was an unusual  and unexpected 
one. I think this is just the type of eventuality Mrs J took out insurance  to cover, and its not 
fair for Red Sands to limit the claim to just one condition limit.
As Red Sands is aware, its our longstanding  position that an insurer should not deduct the 
policy excess from the condition limit where  the claim is in excess of the policy limit. If it does 
so then a consumer could never benefit  from the full policy limit. And I see that Mrs Js claim 
for FCE was well in excess of £2,000. So Red Sands must refund to Mrs J the policy  excess 
of £99 that it deducted from the claim payment, together with 8% simple interest as set out 
below.
Red Sands  must also pay Mrs Js claim for rhabdomyolysis, which was £656.32, less the 
policy excess of £99. This means it must  pay her £557.32, plus 8% simple interest as set out 
below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to treat the two claims for FCE and rhabdomyolysis as separate  conditions. 
Ref: DRN55350933Within 28 days of the date on which we send  it Mrs Js acceptance of my final decision it 
must pay to Mrs J:
£99, being  the excess it deducted from the FCE claim; and 
£557.32, being the amount of her claim for rhabdomyolysis (£656.23), less the £99 
policy excess.
Red Sands  must also add simple interest* of 8% per year to the above payments, from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5535093