K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about how U K Insurance Limited  trading as Privilege handled a claim he 
made on his motor insurance after a collision with another  driver.
background
Mr G insured his car with Privilege. He was involved in an accident with another driver which 
resulted in damage to his cars bodywork. So he made  a claim on his insurance.
Mr G said he was driving along a road. A van pulled out to overtake a line of parked cars 
even though Mr G had right of way. So Mr G pulled  in to side of the road and stopped to 
allow the van to pass on his side of the road.  The van hit the rear drivers  side of his car as it 
passed. It didnt  stop at the scene but Mr G caught  up with it about  a mile later to exchange  
details.
Mr G had his car repaired and sent the invoice to Privilege.  The cost was just under £600   
Mr Gs policy  excess was £650.  Privilege  acknowledged  receipt  of the invoice but later said it 
hadnt received  it.
Privilege made a claim to the third partys  insurer. The third party denied liability  saying he 
had already started overtaking the line of parked cars and Mr G failed to give way to him.
Mr G complained to Privilege. He was unhappy that his claim hadnt been  paid and he hadnt 
been refunded  for the costs of repair. He said it was taking a long time to resolve the issue  
and he had to keep chasing Privilege  to find out what was going on with his claim  but 
Privilege wasnt keeping  him informed or being  pro-active. It shouldnt  take months to 
resolve a simple claim.
Privilege accepted it hadnt handled  the claim as well as it could and offered Mr G £100 
compensation. Our adjudicator recommended increasing that to £200, which  Privilege 
accepted. But Mr G didnt.  He wanted  his claim paid, but said he would settle for a further 
£250. So the complaint  came to me for a final decision  to be made. I issued a provisional  
decision, in which I said:
Ive looked at how Privilege handled this claim and I agree that Mr G was provided 
with a poor service.  His calls werent  returned, he wasnt kept up to date with what 
was going on  and Privilege didnt  tell him for several months  that it didnt have the 
repair invoice despite previously acknowledging receipt of it. All this caused  Mr G a 
fair amount of trouble  and upset  because  he had to keep taking action to chase 
Privilege, and because  he was concerned and annoyed about  the delay. 
I think £200 compensation   including the £100  Privilege has already paid  is fair for 
this. Ive taken into account  what Mr G says, but I dont think a further £250 is fair. Its 
not possible to precisely  quantify the amount of trouble  and upset he suffered, but its 
not related to the financial value of his claim.  Ive taken into account the sorts of 
awards made in similar cases and I think £200 is fair. 
As regards  the outcome of the claim itself, Privilege   after discussions with the third 
party insurer   suggested settling the claim on a 50:50 basis.  
Ref: DRN50338622The difficulty  with incidents  like this is that there werent any independent witnesses  
as to what happened. I appreciate that Mr Gs recollection of events is very clear,  and 
he feels very strongly that he wasnt to blame.  He says the other driver was on his 
side of the road and hit him. And the other  driver didnt stop after the accident.
But the other driver says that he had already started  overtaking  the line of parked 
cars when  Mr G appeared.  And so although  he was on Mr Gs side of the road, he 
had priority and Mr G should have  let him complete his manoeuvre.
There were no independent witnesses. Both versions of events are consistent with 
the descriptions of the road layout  and the positions  of the parked cars. It really turns 
on a dispute about who is right about  whether the other driver was already 
overtaking, or should have waited  until Mr G had gone past  on who got to the line 
of parked cars first. In the absence of independent evidence, thats something its 
very hard to be sure about.
As the third party and his insurer dont accept Mr Gs version of events, ultimately the 
only way for Privilege to recover Mr Gs costs would be to take the other driver to 
court. Given  the costs  involved, the relatively small sums at stake, and the difficulties 
Ive set out with the evidence, that would be a risky thing to do.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Gs policy allow Privilege to take over,  deal with and 
settle any claim Mr G is involved in. In doing so it should  act fairly and reasonably. In 
view of what Ive said above  and taking into account the sum in dispute  is less than 
Mr Gs excess,  I think Privilege  acted  reasonably  in suggesting a settlement based 
on 50:50 liability, and so I dont think it would be fair to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Privilege accepted my provisional decision. Mr G reiterated his account of the collision, and 
the subsequent behaviour of the other  driver.  He considers the other driver to have broken 
the law, and expected  his insurer to protect  him from that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what I said in my provisional  decision  in light of the replies  to it. I do 
understand Mr Gs strength of feeling  about  this, and I acknowledge his conviction both that 
he was not at fault and that he has a strong  case about that. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, in the absence of independent evidence  and in the face of 
disagreement from the other party  and his insurer, it would be difficult for Privilege to take 
the claim further. The relatively  low sums at stake, and the level of risk, meant that Privilege 
didnt consider it could continue  to dispute the claim,  for example in court. Its entitled under 
the policy terms and conditions to settle  a claim on Mr Gs behalf, and I dont think  it acted 
unreasonably in all the circumstances in doing so here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  his complaint and direct U K 
Insurance Limited to increase the compensation to Mr G to £200.
Ref: DRN50338623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033862