K820x#14complaint
Mr K says that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave him incorrect  advice when  he 
transferred out of an occupational pension and into a personal pension.
background
In 1991 Commercial Union (now  Aviva) advised Mr K to transfer his preserved benefits  from 
an occupational  pension into a personal pension.
In 2000 Aviva wrote to Mr K as part of the industry wide Pension Review. The outcome of 
this review was that Mr K hadnt lost out and it wrote  to Mr K to confirm this.
More recently Mr Ks said that hed become aware that workers in his field had been mis-
advised to transfer away  from their occupational  pensions. He complained to Aviva who 
explained that they had already  reviewed this and sent him copies of the relevant 
documentation.
Mr K says that he has no recollection  of receiving these letters  and they read like everything 
was fine. Mr K would  like the transfer  to be reviewed  again as he now knows  that hes lost 
out due to this advice.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks case but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She explained  
that whilst  Mr K says he has no recollection of receiving the invites  to the review.  They  were  
correctly addressed and because  a review was carried out, this indicates that Mr K did 
respond. As a review  had already been  completed and Aviva had followed the regulators 
guidance, there was no obligation for it to carry out another review. This is because  it was 
designed as a one-off exercise.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that he has no recollection of the review at the time and 
so didnt have  the opportunity to question the outcome then. And the letters are written  like it 
was done automatically rather  than hed requested  it. Mr K also questioned that on the 
review letter  it said that hed not kept his preserved benefits and there was a shortfall  in his 
life cover  and does  this not show that the advice was detrimental?
Mr K says that he knows now that hes lost out and that this hasnt been put right.  He was 
unaware of the Pension Review and would like the advice to be looked at now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice to transfer Mr Ks deferred  benefits was reviewed as part of the regulators 
industry wide pension  review. This was set up because the regulator was concerned that 
investors had been given  unsuitable advice.
The review  calculations were based on a number  of assumptions.  The regulator set out how 
the calculation  had to be done and the assumptions that had to be used.  This was a complex 
and difficult task, essentially having to predict the future. And unfortunately the assumptions 
used havent mirrored  whats actually  happened since. Investment returns  have been much  
lower than expected.  And annuity rates have fallen. The end result of this has been despite  
Ref: DRN50483392the review being  carried  out, many individuals remain worse off because of the advice to 
transfer out of their occupational pensions.
But, as the investigator  explained, the aim of the Pension Review was to draw  a line under 
any mis-selling and put matters right at that time. From what weve  seen Aviva  carried out 
the review as it was required by the regulator to do at the time.
Once the review  was completed it wasnt necessary for the business to complete another  
one in the future. Commercial Union  (now Aviva) had the resources  to carry out the review  
and to carry out quality checks on the calculations  so I am satisfied the review was carried  
out in line with the regulators guidance and assumptions for the pension review.  Businesses 
carrying out the calculations were subject  to both internal and external quality control 
checks. So I think the figures are likely to be correct.
Mr K has made the point  a number of times that he was given poor advice and mis-advised. 
I dont disagree but this is why the pension  review process was put in place by the regulator.  
And once  this review  was carried out, this essentially means that the mis-selling  has been 
considered and doesnt have to be looked at again.  As Ive said unfortunately much  of the 
assumptions used to calculate the future loss, with hindsight, were  wide of the mark. But 
there was and is no requirement  as part of the review process for it to be considered  again  in 
the future.
So I can completely  understand and sympathise with Mr Ks position.  But Aviva complied 
with the regulators  guidance  so it wouldnt be fair to ask them to do this again.
I know that Mr K says he has no recollection of requesting a review or receiving the result of 
the review. And so it follows  he couldnt  contest the outcome at the time. However, the 
review process required individuals to respond before a review was carried  out. As the 
letters were correctly addressed and a review was carried  out, this strongly suggests that Mr 
K did respond. And whilst Mr K doesnt recall this, where  we cant be sure what  happened,  
we work  on the balance  of probabilities. And I think on the balance of evidence,  that its more 
likely that Mr K did respond and request a review.
Mr K has commented on the wording  of the review  correspondence and it sounding like it 
had been done without  his input. However,  the wording of these letters wouldve been 
generic as thousands of people wouldve been  mailed at the time by the business.  And the 
process that Aviva wouldve followed was to send out invites  and then carry out the reviews 
for those  that responded.
I doubt it is of much  comfort to Mr K but had he not responded  to the review  letters,  he likely 
wouldnt have retained the right for a review  to be carried out now in any event. He would 
now be out of time to request a review, had he not requested one before.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr K has lost out but Aviva  reviewed the transfer  as it was required to 
do at the time. So Im not going to ask Aviva  to revisit the matter.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Ref: DRN50483393Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5048339