K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Link Mortgage  Services Limited hasnt treated them  fairly when 
dealing with their mortgage arrears.  They  want compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs D had a second  mortgage over their property, which was transferred to S. The 
loan was administered  on S behalf  by Link. Mr and Mrs D said that Link wasnt treating them 
fairly  they were  in arrears and financial  difficulties  but Link charged  arrears fees and 
interest. Mr and Mrs D felt that Link was simply trying to make  money.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to Link. It said that arrears fees were lawful and were charged to 
reflect the extra work required to deal with accounts in arrears.  Link noted that the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage, accepted by Mr and Mrs D, allowed the arrears fees to be 
charged and theyd been made aware  of the amount both at the start and each year.  Link 
also pointed out that it had worked with Mr and Mrs D and reviewed with them  their financial 
position, and agreed a repayment plan when it had all the information it needed to check that 
the plan was affordable. Link said that it hadnt  charged arrears fees when there was a 
concession or repayment plan in place either. But it removed £60 of fees to reflect  the lack of 
work undertaken by it between October  2016 and February  2017.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us and repaid the mortgage in full. The investigators view was 
that Link had acted fairly when dealing with Mr and Mrs D. She thought  that it was 
reasonable to request information  to understand the financial position and Link had done  all 
it could reasonably do to help.  The investigator noted that Link didnt  any arrears fees every 
time that the mortgage was in arrears and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They felt Link acted unreasonably and unprofessionally.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage, they promised to repay the loan as agreed. 
Unfortunately, they got into financial difficulties, but that wasnt the fault of Link. In such 
circumstances, lenders are required to treat consumers fairly, but this doesnt  mean  they 
cant charge interest  or arrears fees.  Mr and Mrs D agreed to pay interest  on the outstanding 
balance when they took out the mortgage,  and lenders  arent required to give consumers an 
interest free loan.
Arrears fees can be charged by a lender, but only if theyre part of the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage.  Such fees are meant  to cover the cost of the extra  work a lender or its 
administrator has to do in dealing  with an account  in arrears and talking to the consumer. In 
Mr and Mrs Ds case, the mortgage allowed arrears fees to be charged. 
Ref: DRN58563912I can see Link did carry out extra work  it wrote  to Mr and Mrs D about the arrears, and it 
talked to them and their debt advisers  repeatedly about the arrears  and how best to move 
forward. Link also reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds financial position, agreed payment holidays and 
accepted less that it was owed each month for a period, and then agreed an ongoing 
repayment plan.  All of this takes time and effort on Links  part. Link didnt  charge  fees when 
there was a concession  or repayment  plan in place. But I also note that Link felt that £60 of 
arrears fees should  be refunded as it didnt  do much work between October 2016 and 
February 2017; I think that this is fair and reasonable.
As I mention above, lenders have to treat consumers fairly when theyre in financial 
difficulties. But having looked at the evidence available to me, and thought about the actions 
of Link that I set out above, I think that it did treat Mr and Mrs D fairly  and did as much  as it 
could do to help.  Lenders must be sure that repayment plans are affordable, which  was why 
Link needed more  information from Mr and Mrs D before agreeing a repayment plan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5856391