K820x#14complaint
Mrs T, brings  a complaint on behalf  of Mr T, against  Motors Insurance Company Limited 
(MIC), for failing to meet the balance of the finance agreement under a GAP insurance 
policy and for the delay  in dealing with the claim.
background
In February 2018  Mr T bought a car on finance.  He also purchased  a GAP insurance policy 
from MIC. The terms of the GAP policy say:
following a total loss Car care will pay the difference  up to the sum insured  between the 
insured value and the purchase price  of the car as confirmed in the net sales  invoice. The 
sum insured is the maximum amount that can be claimed in total during the Period of 
Insurance as stated  in the Validation Certificate.
The following  were excluded:
any insurance premiums, dealer and manufacturer discounts, incentives and cashbacks, 
new vehicle registration  fees, number plates,  warranty costs, fuel, other extras,  arrears or 
negative equity transferred from a previous  finance agreement. . . 
Mr Ts car was written  off after an accident in March 2018. Mr Ts insurers  paid the value of 
the car to the finance provider. Mr T made  a claim against his GAP  policy, expecting  them  to 
pay an amount to clear  the outstanding balance on his finance agreement. Instead a 
payment of £250  was made,  leaving Mr T with a shortfall.
Mr T feels the terms and conditions of his policy didnt make clear  the circumstances  in 
which the policy would pay out.
MIC say they calculated  the claim in line with terms and conditions  of the policy.  They rely 
upon a breakdown of the figures, provided  to Mr T in April 2018.
Our investigator considered the case  and felt the terms and conditions  of Mr Ts Gap 
Insurance Policy  were  clear. Our investigator thought  MIC had applied  the terms and 
conditions of the policy to Mr Ts claim and had correctly deducted the cost of Gap insurance 
and an administration  fee when calculating the purchase price of the vehicle, but thought 
MIC should  have included a cambelt  charge (£175) and transfer fee (£50)  as part of the 
purchase price. She thought MIC should have made a payment of £475  towards  the balance 
of the finance  agreement, in other words, an additional £225 should have been paid. But our 
investigator took into account  that the finance  provider had agreed to waive  the balance  of 
the finance agreement,  so Mr T didnt actually  suffer  any loss. In these circumstances, it 
wasnt fair and reasonable to compensate Mr T further. Our investigator also thought  that 
MIC dealt with the claim within a reasonable time.
Mr T disagrees with the view, so the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53976982Mrs T, on behalf  of Mr T, has raised several issues about the car and sale of the policy. For 
the avoidance of doubt, this decision is specific to the payment under the terms of the GAP  
policy only.
The purpose of GAP insurance  is to cover any outstanding finance payments if a car is
written off during the period of the policy, subject to the terms and conditions of that 
individual policy.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts GAP insurance policy, which  Ive set out 
above. On balance, I think they set out clearly  the circumstances in which  a claim could  be 
made, and how such a claim would be assessed.
Ive seen the breakdown of the figures.  I agree with our investigator that it would have been 
reasonable to have  included the cost of the cambelt   within  the price of the car, Im not 
satisfied that the transfer fee should have been  included.  So I think  an error was made when 
calculating the claim.  I think the payment should have been £175 more  than the £250.  
Mrs T has told us that the finance provider subsequently cleared the balance  of the 
outstanding finance. That balance was more than the additional £175 calculated above. So 
Im not satisfied that Mr T suffered a loss here. In my view it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to compensate Mr T further as this would amount to double  recovery.  
Ive taken into account that it is usual practice  for GAP insurers to pay a claim after the car 
insurer has met their claim. Ive looked  at the timeline of events.  Loss  and settlement letters  
were sent to Car care plan on 22 March 2018.  They advised that it can take approximately 
15 working days to settle a claim.  A settlement figure was provided on 19 April. As this was 
only a couple  of days after the estimated timeline, I think the timeframe  was reasonable.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr T, but Im not going to ask MIC to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr T to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 17 June 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5397698