K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold  him a regular premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
background
Mr S applied for a credit card account  over the internet in 2008. At the same  time he took out 
a PPI policy to cover  his credit card repayments. The policy  cost £1.50 per £100  of the 
balance on Mr Ss credit card. A successful  claim on the policy  wouldve paid off the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ss account if he was unable to work due to accident  or sickness  
or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because  he thought Mr S 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr S disagrees. He says the policy wasnt explained  properly and he didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied  for online when Mr S applied for a credit card account.  Santander have 
given us a copy  of the screen shots  of the application form Mr S wouldve seen and 
completed when  he applied for his credit card account. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against as 
well as providing links to click on to view the policy summary. Just under this it says I 
understand that I am responsible for ensuring that the product is suitable  for my needs and 
provides a box to select with the words I would like to apply  to purchase optional Balance  
Cancellation Cover.  
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ss credit  agreement which required Mr S to input his signature 
digitally and separately from the credit  in order to take PPI. I can see that Mr S signed to 
take PPI under the words  I wish to purchase Balance Cancellation Cover.
So I think because Mr S had PPI its likely he selected to take PPI on the application form. If 
Mr S didnt want to take out PPI he couldve not selected to take the cover.  So I think  its 
likely Mr S understood he had a choice in taking out the PPI and confirmed  his choice to 
take it by signing  for it separately on the credit  agreement  because he wanted  the cover.
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont  think  Santander advised Mr S to 
take PPI. What this means is that Santander didnt recommend PPI to Mr S, they just gave 
Ref: DRN54232962him information about PPI. This information  needed  to be given in a way that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so he could make an informed choice about  buying PPI.
Santander say that enough information wouldve been given to allow  Mr S to make  an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to his account. I can see the cost of the policy is 
shown on the application form. But I cant say whether  all the proper information needed was 
given. That being  said even if Santander did give all the information Mr S needed to make an 
informed choice on taking  out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy  because  at 
the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he had good work benefits but had no other  means of 
making his repayments if he couldnt  work  or lost his job. The policy wouldve paid out 
on top of any work benefits and cleared his balance after 30 days. So I cant  see how 
knowing this information wouldve  put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S or refund
any interest and charges  applied to his credit  card that may have been incurred because of
those premiums.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
When the policy was sold,  Santander  expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  
that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what Santander needs to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest
he paid because of that.
Santander should re-work the credit  card account  and pay back to Mr S the difference  
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Santander should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple
interest (15% before April 1993) if Mr S paid off his credit card at some point.
Ref: DRN54232963*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5423296