K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Finance 
unfairly terminated his hire purchase agreement when it fell into arrears. He wants the 
agreement to be reinstated  and for the record of default to be removed  from his credit file.
background
Mr W tells us that he missed a number of payments  on his finance agreement  as hed 
changed banks.  And he says he made several attempts to make  payments of the arrears. 
He states he didnt receive notices or phone  calls from Audi and had he been aware of the 
risk of termination of the account hed have made  immediate attempts to make  contact. Mr 
W says hes now been told the vehicle is to be repossessed.
Audi told us that Mr W had been  in arrears for a substantial period of time. It said it had 
issued a notice  of default in January 2019  which Mr W had subsequently satisfied. But it said 
hed then fallen  into arrears again. It said a further  notice of default was issued in April 2019 
and the agreement was terminated  in May 2019.  Audi said it had acted  fairly  and felt the 
decision to terminate was in both its interests  and those of Mr W.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that in January 
2019 Mr W had contacted Audi about arrears on his account. These arrears had been  
cleared. She said further payments had then been missed and it wasnt  until 23 May 2019 
(by which time the account had been terminated) that Mr W had again made contact with 
Audi. She thought Mr W wouldve been  aware  that payments werent being taken from his 
account. And that in view of the earlier arrears  she thought Mr W ought to have been aware 
of the potential consequences. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with this outcome. He said hed tried to contact Audi several  times in 
May to clear the arrears. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans  
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W is upset and disappointed at the sequence of events that has led to this 
finance agreement  being terminated. And I understand his concern at the impact  this is likely 
to have on his credit file.
Mr Ws hire purchase  agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it.
Its not entirely clear  whether the arrears figures  which have accrued from time to time on Mr 
Ws agreement is due in any part to financial  difficulty. Or simply to lack of attention to detail. 
Certainly the notes  recorded by Audi up to the date of termination suggest that Mr W 
explained the arrears as being due to having moved  house and changed bank details.  And 
his not paying attention to the account.
Ref: DRN55223952At all times wed expect a business to act fairly - whatever  reason arrears  had arisen.  And I 
can see that Audi sent notices of sums in arrears and a default notice in respect of arrears  
which had accumulated up until January 2019.  And when those arrears were  cleared the 
process was repeated  when arrears again began to accumulate in March and April 2019. Im 
aware Mr W says he didnt receive  these letters but they appear  to be addressed correctly - 
even after hed moved address. 
More importantly, its up to the consumer to manage  payments and ensure theyre kept up to 
date. Given the earlier  process hed been  through with the arrears that had been paid off in 
January 2019,  I think Mr W ought  reasonably to have been aware of the potential  
consequences of not making payments.
Audi sent a notice  of default  on 16 April 2019 having previously sent a reminder notice dated 
4 April and a notice  of sums in arrears dated 8 April 2019. The default notice stated that the 
sum of £1,150.38  (three months payments) needed  to be paid by 5 May 2019  and contained 
the following  warning  of intended action:
If you fail to pay the arrears before 05 MAY 2019, you will be deemed to have repudiated the 
Agreement and we may take action to enforce our rights under the Agreement. Possible 
actions may involve:
 Terminating the Agreement
 Recovering possession of the vehicle, arrears of rentals  and any late payment interest.
Wed normally expect  a business to default an account when between three and six months  
arrears had accumulated. These arrears had accrued immediately following the previous 
arrears having been  settled.  So I dont  think Audi was being unfair in taking this action when 
it did. I also note the period between the settlement date for the default notice, 5 May 2019,  
and the date of termination, 21 May 2019, gave ample time for Mr W to deal with this matter.  
Im aware he says that he made  attempts to pay using the online portal but I cant  see why 
direct contact was delayed. As I understand it, the arrears paid off in January 2019 were 
made by card payment during telephone contact. So I dont think  its plausible  to think  that 
there werent  available  alternatives to the online portal. 
Although it doesnt  directly affect my decision  as to whether or not Audi acted fairly in 
terminating the agreement, I will briefly note whats happened since.  Mr W made a payment 
on 30 May 2019 to clear  what  wouldve been the arrears had the agreement not been 
terminated. Audi reports that since then Mr W has continued to make  sporadic payments 
although not on the dates  that these wouldve due had the agreement still been  in force.
Im satisfied that Audi acted in line with the terms and conditions of the regulated agreement 
in terminating  it when these arrears had accumulated. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
of me to direct Audi to reverse that decision which had, in my opinion,  been properly made.
At the time of writing  Im not aware of how much Mr W has paid towards the agreement. But 
as this was a hire purchase agreement its normally necessary - in the absence of consent - 
for a court order to be made before  goods  can be repossessed provided at least  one third of 
payments due have  been met. In Mr Ws case thats approximately £14,667.  Audi has also 
advised that it remains open for Mr W to pay the entire outstanding sum due (and retain the 
vehicle) which would also satisfy the default recorded on his credit  file.
Ref: DRN55223953As the agreement was defaulted, Audi is entitled  to report  that fact to credit reference 
agencies. So I shant  be asking it to remove any such notification. No doubt it will update the 
record according to when Mr W makes further  payments.  And if he pays in full then he will 
be able to have  the default  recorded as satisfied. Hed also be able to apply to have a 
notice of correction  added  to his file. In this hed be able to explain the circumstances of the 
default so that prospective future  lenders would be aware.
In summary,  I dont think Audi has acted unfairly  in this matter  and I shant be asking it do 
anything else. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5522395