K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains  about  the peer to peer (P2P)  lending  crowdfunding  accounts  he holds  
with Assetz  SME  Capital  Limited.  His concerns  relate  to information  provided  about  the 
provision  fund and a lack of diversification  in the accounts  that left him overexposed  to 
poor performing  loans.  
Background  
Assetz  provides  a loan-based  crowdfunding  facility  through  a peer to peer (P2P)  
platform  in which  investors  can lend to borrowers  in return  for interest.  
Since  2016,  Mr C has held a number  of crowdfunding  accounts  with Assetz.  There  are 
two that are relevant  to this complaint.  The first of which  had an objective  of lending  to 
businesses  linked  to green  energy   he first invested  in this account  in November  2016.  
In 2017  he made  his first investment  in an account  which  involved  providing  lending  to 
British  businesses.  For both accounts,  Assetz  invest  on behalf  of account  holders  by 
lending  and trading  loans  in line with the account  objectives.  In practice  this means  
money  invested  into the accounts  is held in a number  of loans  at any given  time,  with 
Assetz  using  an automated  algorithm  to manage  the overall  portfolio.  Both  accounts  
aimed  to provide  Mr C with a return  of 7% per year.
In April 20017,  Mr C says  he reviewed  his position  in both accounts  as he started  to 
have  concerns  about  a lack of diversification.  He says  he decided  to leave  his funds  
invested  on the strength  of the information  provided  on Assetzs  website  about  the 
provision  fund linked  to the accounts.  But his concerns  continued  and in August  2018,  
Mr C raised  a complaint  with Assetz  about  how the accounts  were  run. 
Mr C raised  concerns  about  his over-concentration  to specific  loans  in the Green  Energy  
account  (GEA)  and reiterated  queries  hed raised  in 2017  about  this issue.  He said the 
provision  fund linked  to the accounts  was underfunded  and inadequate  to meet  the 
shortfall  caused  by under  preforming  loans.
Assetz  responded  to the complaint  and didnt  uphold  it. It explained  that the accounts  
are mandate  driven  accounts,  which  automatically  diversify  funds  across  many  matching  
loans  at any given  time,  with the aim of doing  so in an equal  and proportionate  way and 
subject  to loan availability.  
It referred  Mr C to the information  on its website  about  the operation  of the discretionary  
provision  fund (PF).  It explained  the primary  goal of the PF is to seek  to protect  against  
any potential  capital  losses  if, in the event  of a loan default,  the security  taken  on that 
loan does  not cover  the outstanding  balance  due on that loan.  And the secondary  goal 
is to cover  payment  delays/shortfalls  of interest  from a borrower  where  that sum arrives  
later than expected.  But also,  Assetz  said the PF does  not guarantee  to provide  up to 
100%  coverage  of any losses  sustained  by the accounts.  It said it was made  clear  that 
should  the PF become  depleted  it may be unable  to cover  some  or even  all of any future  
losses  until such  time as the PF is replenished.
Mr C wasnt  happy  with the response,  so referred  his complaint  to our service.  Mr C 
made  specific  reference  to six loans  he was concerned  about,  five of these  were  in the 
GEA.  He also mentioned  a particular  loan he held in his British  Business  account  (BBA)  
as he was concerned  about  his level  of exposure  in a loan that was now in default.  
Ref: DRN58531402Assetz  informed  us that for the loans  in the GEA  it was making  a proposal  to lenders,  
like Mr C, to return  the capital  invested.  For the loan in the BBA it said although  in 
default  with trading  suspended,  this loan wasnt  yet formally  in recovery,  so its not 
possible  at this stage  to determine  whether  or not there  will be any future  loss to 
investors.
One of our investigators  looked  into the issues  Mr C asked  us to consider.  He didnt  
uphold  the complaint.  He thought  the accounts  had been  run in line with the with the 
terms  and conditions   including  how diversification  was achieved.  He also thought  the 
PF had been  adequately  explained  by Assetz  and it had done  enough  to make  the 
discretionary  nature  and limitations  clear  in the information  available.  Overall,  he didnt  
find Assetz  had unreasonably  overstated  how it tries to mitigate  the risk of this type of 
investment  and did set out clearly  the risks  involved.
Mr C didnt  accept  the investigators  findings  and asked  for an ombudsman  to reach  a 
decision  on the complaint.  He disagreed  with the investigators  understanding  of the 
aims  of the PF. In summary  he said:
-Assetz  marketed  the accounts  as having  an element  of capital  security  because  
they were  linked  to a PF. It claimed  that even  when  subjected  to the most  
stringent  Bank  of England  stress  tests  the PF would  cover  expected  losses  three  
times  over,  after all recovery  avenues  had been  pursued.  But these  assumptions  
werent  even  close  to reality.  
-The fact that the PFs were  described  as discretionary  is irrelevant.  Assetz  was 
unable  to guarantee  payments  from the PF because  they were  not licensed  by 
the FCA to sell insurance  products  but there  was a clear  intention  on the part of 
the directors  to make  good  capital  losses  suffered  by lenders,  as indicated  in 
information  included  on the website.  Investors  were  induced  to believe  that the 
PF would  cover  them.  
-At the time he invested,  Assetz  did not disclose  the cash  balances  held by the 
various  provision  funds.  Had they done  so, it would  have  been  obvious  that the 
default  of a single  loan would  have  been  sufficient  to exhaust  the provision  fund - 
as has happened  with the loan in the BBA that is subject  to this complaint.  Had 
he known  this he would  not have  invested.
-There  is no basis  for asserting  that the PF was merely  intended  to provide  cash  
flow to cover  late interest  payments  by borrowers.  This is contradicted  by 
statements  on Assetzs  website  by directors  and by how the PF has been  
distributed  in practice.
Since  Mr C requested  a decision,  we asked  Assetz  if it would  make  a different  
compensation  offer to him in respect  of the loans  in the GEA.  Assetz  did make  a new 
offer to Mr C, which  he accepted.  Mr C has confirmed  that this part of his complaint  is 
resolved.  
My findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN58531403As Mr C has accepted  an offer and told us his complaint  about  the loans  in the GEA  is 
resolved,  I wont  consider  this part of the complaint  further.  Instead  I will concentrate  my 
findings  on the concerns  Mr C has raised  about  his investment  in the BBA.  
Mr C has raised  concerns  about  how the account  has been  run by Assetz   with 
particular  focus  on his exposure  to loans  in default  and the way the PF was described  to 
him and the reality  of how it has been  used.  He says  Assetz  misrepresented  the PF  
and he wouldnt  have  invested  but for this. He says  the likelihood  that the PF would  
have  the resources  to compensate  him for his capital  losses  wasnt  explained  correctly.  
He has raised  concerns  about  the information  provided  about  expected  loss ratios  when  
describing  the PFs ability  to cover  losses  and says  this misrepresented  the risk to 
lenders.  He used  the example  of one of the loans  he invested  in within  the BBA to argue  
how the large  losses  expected  on this loan were  unlikely  to have  been  covered.  He 
explains  he received  a substantial  PF pay-out  covering  some  (but not all) of the 
expected  losses  on the loan but that didnt  resolve  the issue  because  the pay-out  all but 
exhausted  the PF.  
Ive looked  at what  information  was given  to Mr C at the time he first invested  in this 
account.  And Ive taken  into account  the regulatory  obligations  placed  upon  Assetz  at 
the time.  The Financial  Conduct  Authoritys  (FCA)  Principles  for Business  (PRIN)  set out 
the overarching  requirements  which  all authorised  firms  are required  to comply  with.  The 
most  relevant  principles  here are:
PRIN  2.1.1R  (2) A firm must  conduct  its business  with due skill, care and 
diligence.
PRIN  2.1.1R  (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests  of its customers  and 
treat them  fairly.
PRIN  2.1.1R  (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs  of its 
clients,  and communicate  information  to them  in a way which  is clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
Assetz  is also required  to act in accordance  with the rules  set out in the FCAs  Conduct  
of Business  Sourcebook  (COBS).  And the most  relevant  obligations  here are:
COBS  2.1.1R  (1) A firm must  act honestly,  fairly  and professionally  in 
accordance  with the best interests  of its client.
COBS  4.2.1R  (1) A firm must  ensure  that a communication  or a financial  
promotion  is fair, clear  and not misleading.
 
Information  about  the PF
Assetz  has provided  details  of its website  pages  that it says  were  available  to Mr C 
when  he reviewed  his investments  in April 20107.  The Key Investor  Information  section  
makes  the following  statement  about  capital  losses,  When  lending  there  is always  a risk 
the borrower  may default  and in some  extreme  cases  capital  may be lost.  There  are 
then specific  pages  relating  to the BBA.  These  explain  the BBA allows  you to 
automatically  diversify  your funds  in a number  of UK SME  businesses  in order  to help 
you spread  risk. It also mentions  the account  has an added  protection  of a discretionary  
provision  fund.  It goes  on to say the annualised  projected  return  after expected  losses  is 
currently  7.00%  (based  on stress  testing  of the PF). And gives  a warning  about  past 
Ref: DRN58531404performance  not guaranteeing  future  performance,  the investment  not being  a bank  
account  and capital  being  at risk.
It provides  further  information  on the PF fund stating  that investments  in the BBA .. 
benefit  from automatic  inclusion  in a separate,  discretionary  Provision  Fund  intended  to 
help to protect  investors  from income  delays  or income  and/or  capital  losses..  
And:
The  Provision  Fund  is designed  to cover;
-Payment  delays  of interest  from a borrower  where  that sum arrives  later than 
expected  
-Shortfalls  in interest  received  from a borrower
-Any possible  capital  losses  if a loan defaults  and the security  when  sold does  not 
cover  the loan balance  remaining
It goes  on to say:
 
The  Provision  Fund  is targeted  to provide  a coverage  multiple  of 3x the expected  
losses  over the life of the loans  within  the account  even  in challenging  economic  
conditions.  The expected  losses  on the account  (prior  to any coverage  by the Provision  
Fund)  are calculated  after applying  extreme  stress  to the security  taken  to protect  each  
loan and we have  used  the Bank  of England  2016  Stress  test assumptions  to that 
security.  The Bank  of England  Stress  tests  are designed  to ensure  UK Banks  can 
withstand  the worst  expected  future  economic  conditions  and are a sound  and prudent  
basis  for this test. We then calculate  a multiple  of 3x those  potential  losses  and that is 
the target  for the Provision  Fund  funding.
 
There  is then information  of how the PF could  cover  projected  losses   and gives  an 
example  of it being  able cover  losses  higher  than current  projections.  
But it also then provides  further  information  about  situations  where  the PF may not 
cover  losses  - the website  explains:  
Payments  from the Provision  Fund  to lenders  are discretionary.  The directors  of APFL  
will determine  whether  payment  should  be made  on a case-by-case  basis  depending  on 
the circumstances.
And
In the event  of there  being  loan defaults  within  the Account  that are in excess  of the 
balance  of the Provision  Fund  then there  may be insufficient  funds  to cover  all claims  
made  by lenders.  It is the intention  that, subject  to funds  being  available,  APFL  would  
pay out under  all reasonable  circumstances  where  there  is a genuine  credit  loss or 
missed  / delayed  payment  towards  any Assetz  Investment  Account  investor  for an 
account  covered  by the provision  fund.  
Having  reviewed  this information,  I accept  that it does  present  a positive  picture  of the 
benefits  of the PF. There  are statements  that provide  reassurances   so I do have  some  
concerns  around  the downplaying  of the likelihood  of losses.  But in order  to uphold  the 
complaint  I would  need  to be satisfied  that the information  provided  was misleading.  Im 
satisfied  the information  provided  to Mr C did explain  that there  was a risk attached  to 
Ref: DRN58531405investing  in peer to peer lending   and it wasnt  something  that provided  a guaranteed  
return  of capital.  Mr Cs arguments  centre  around  the information  provided  about  the PF 
 which  led him to believe  his investment  was more  secure  from losses  that he later 
experienced.  
Ive considered  the comments  Mr C has made  about  the information  used  by Assetz  to 
describe  the assumptions  it made  to give an indication  of how the PF would  be used  in 
the event  of performance  issues  with loans.  In particular  he says  Assetzs  claim  that 
even  when  subjected  to the most  stringent  Bank  of England  stress  tests  the PF would  
cover  expected  losses  three  times  over,  but in reality  this was far from how the PF has 
worked  on his account.  Assetz  says  the ratios  are calculated  based  on the amount  of 
funds  in the PF versus  the "expected  loss"  using  its own assumptions  and the Bank  of 
England's  Loan  Book  Stress  test protocols.  And as they are forecasts  of expected  loss 
percentages  calculated  on a portfolio  basis,  they may be lower  or higher  than actual  
losses  that occur.  Assetz  also say the stress  test figures  were  sufficiently  robust  given  
the parameters  and methodology  used  at the time and they couldnt  take account  of 
subsequent  deviation  due to extreme  circumstances  in relation  to particular  loans.
I can appreciate  why Mr C is unhappy  that his experience  of the how the PF worked   
and why this wasnt  what  he was expecting.  Although  I do note that he has more  
recently  told us he received  a substantial  pay-out  from the PF on the loan in the BBA 
that is subject  to this complaint.  I understand  the point  he makes  about  the description  
of the stress  tests  to positively  support  the returns  expected.  But I need  to decide  
whether  this is enough  to say Assetzs  failed  to meet  its obligations  to provide  him with 
clear,  fair and not misleading  information.  The nature  of assumptions  provided  in this 
type of scenario,  means  they are not guaranteed  to be correct  and will depend  on the 
future  performance  of the loans.  Im also conscious  that the assumptions  are made  on 
the portfolio  of loans   so the losses  experienced  on individual  loans  cant  easily  be 
used  to support  that Assetz  were  misleading  with the information  it provided.  I agree  
that this information  would  have  given  Mr C reassurance   but that is different  to finding  
that misleading  statements  have  been  made,  particularly  when  there  are warnings  that 
not all losses  will be covered.  I havent  seen  sufficient  evidence  to persuade  me Assetz  
failed  to meet  its obligations  to Mr C in the way it described  the PF. 
Mr C has also said that Assetz  didnt  disclose  the cash  balances  held in the PF. Had 
they done  so, he says  it would  have  been  obvious  that the default  of a single  loan would  
have  been  sufficient  to exhaust  the PF. Since  Mr C opened  his accounts  the 
requirements  placed  upon  Assetz  by the regulator,  the FCA,  in respect  of disclosures  
have  changed   specifically  new rules  came  into force  from December  2019,  following  
the FCAs  crowdfunding  consultation  paper  of July 2018.  Information  such  as the 
balance  held in the PF is now a requirement  to disclose  to customers.  But at the time Mr 
C opened  his accounts  there  werent  specific  rules  regarding  this that Assetz  needed  to 
follow.  So, I dont  think  it would  be fair to hold Assetz  to this standard  before  it was 
required  to. This doesnt  mean  it wasnt  required  to treat Mr C fairly  and it still needed  to 
meet  the overreaching  obligations  Ive described  when  providing  information  about  the 
account.  But for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont  think  the evidence  is sufficient  to say 
Assetz  has done  something  wrong.  
I have  considered  the further  evidence  Mr C has provided   including  the forum  posts  by 
directors  of Assetz  he mentions  to support  his argument  about  the way it promoted  the 
PF. But I havent  found  they make  a difference  to my overall  findings  on the complaint.  
Ref: DRN58531406In summary,  the information  given  to Mr C on Assetzs  website  about  the PF does  set 
out that it is designed  to cover  interest  shortfalls  and capital  loss.  But it does  explain  that 
it is a discretionary  fund and payments  will be decided  by Assetz  on a case  by case  
basis.  It also explains  that there  may be insufficient  funds  to cover  all losses  to lenders.  
Im satisfied  that Assetz  didnt  provide  a guarantee  the PF would  ensure  that all interest  
and capital  payments  would  be made.  So, I dont  find Assetz  misled  Mr C in the way it 
described  the operation  of the PF. 
Diversification  in the BBA
Ive also considered  the information  Ive available  about  how Mr Cs BBA has been  
managed   with particular  focus  on his exposure  to the loan he has referenced.  In 
Mr Cs initial  submissions  to this service,  he referenced  concerns  about  diversification  in 
his BBA.  Having  reviewed  the terms  of the account,  it is apparent  the account  does  
provide  diversification,  but it is explained  that this will be dependent  on loan availability.  
The information  available  to investors  at the outset  also provided  the criteria  for loan 
selection   including  the maximum  loan-to-value  ratio and the types  of projects  that 
were  excluded  from investment.  So, the way in which  the account  could  diversify  was 
explained.  The availability  of suitable  loans  to invest  in is a limiting  factor  at any given  
time on what  diversification  could  take place   but this limitation  doesnt  mean  Assetz  
did something  wrong.  
Assetz  has provided  information  on the activity  that occurred  in Mr Cs account.  It has 
explained  that has been  placed  into over 100 loans  during  the life time of the account.  
The particular  loan he has mentioned,  Assetz  say represented  around  5% of his funds  
in the account  when  it was selected  for purchase.  So, it doesnt  seem  that this overly  
exposed  him to losses.  In order  for this point  to be upheld,  there  would  need  to be 
evidence  that Assetz  managed  the account  unfairly,  outside  of the way its functionality  
was described  at the outset.  But I havent  found  this to be the case.  
In conclusion,  the nature  of investing  in peer to peer loans  does  present  a risk to lenders  
that borrowers  default  and a risk of losses  where  recovery  action  isnt able to return  all 
capital  and interest  due. The BBA does  come  with the inclusion  of a PF, which  does  
provide  some  additional  protection   but it is not guaranteed  to meet  all losses.  Im not 
persuaded  that the information  Assetz  provided  meant  that Mr C was mis-led  about  this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2021.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5853140