K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought in the names  of both Mr A and Mrs A, as the holders of the joint 
mortgage to which it relates. But the complaint is mainly  about, and has been conducted by, 
Mrs A. She complains  that Skipton Building  Society didnt tell her about arrears on their buy 
to let mortgage, which means she didnt have the chance  to stop the property being  
repossessed. Theres now a shortfall  debt which both Mr A and Mrs A are being pursued for.
background
When they were still married, Mr A and Mrs A took out a buy to let mortgage.  At this time 
they were living  in a property Ill call M. 
In 2015, they moved from M to another property Ill call H.  Mr  A wrote  to Skipton notifying  it 
of their new address.  The letter was from and signed by Mr A only. 
Skipton felt that it only had Mr As authority to change his address, because Mrs A hadnt 
signed the letter. It changed  Mr As address on its system to H, but left Mrs As address as 
M. It wrote  to Mr and Mrs A, at address H, explaining what  it had done  and that it would need 
Mrs A to write separately before it would update her address.
Mr A and Mrs A separated at the end of 2015  and Mr A moved out. The buy to let mortgage 
fell into arrears, and Skipton wrote to Mr A and to Mrs A. It sent letters to both H and to M, 
but in both cases the letters were  addressed to Mr and Mrs A as the joint mortgage holders. 
The letters sent to M were  returned  to Skipton, which therefore changed Mrs As address to 
unknown.
When it didnt receive  a response, Skipton instructed a field agent to visit the mortgaged  
property and to visit Mr and Mrs A. The agent  telephoned  Mr A, and he said he had moved  
to a new address,  C. The field agent  visited him there and updated Mr As address on 
Skiptons systems. Mr A said he would deal with the mortgage, but in fact the arrears  
continued. Skipton  now wrote to C, not having an address for Mrs A on its systems. 
In due course, Skipton instructed receivers, and the property was sold. There  was a shortfall 
of around £60,000.  Skipton then carried out a trace and found  that Mrs A was living  at H. It 
began to pursue  her for the debt.
Mrs A complained. She said she knew nothing of the arrears  or repossession. If shed 
known, she could have  taken action to prevent it. The reason she didnt  know was because  
Skipton hadnt  written  to her  it had written to M, where she was no longer living. It could 
have changed  her address following the letter Mr A wrote  in 2015, or it could have traced her 
sooner. As she didnt  have the chance  to prevent the repossession, it wasnt  fair to make  her 
responsible for the shortfall.
Our investigator thought Skipton could have done more  to get in touch with Mrs A when it 
received the letters returned  to sender from M. But he didnt think  Mrs A would have been 
able to prevent  the repossession. He said Skipton should pay Mrs A £300 compensation for 
not communicating with her.
I took a different view, so I issued a provisional  decision in which  I said:
Ref: DRN53831082The letter in 2015 was from, and signed  by, Mr A only. So I can understand why 
Skipton only changed his address to H  leaving M as Mrs As address. While Mr A 
had told it Mrs A was living at H, she hadnt told it that herself.
And I agree with the investigator that Skipton could potentially have done more  to 
trace an address for Mrs A when the letters from M came back marked  return to 
sender.
But I dont agree that Mrs A couldnt  have  been  aware of what  was happening.  
When Skipton was writing  to M and H, letters to both addresses were  addressed  to 
Mr and Mrs A jointly. 
Skipton wrote to Mr and Mrs A at H explaining  what  Mrs A needed  to do to update  
her address  on its systems. There was no reply.
Skipton wrote to H, addressed to Mr and Mrs A jointly, explaining  that the mortgage 
was in arrears and asking them to contact  it. There were at least three of these 
letters. There was no reply.
Mrs A was living at H throughout this period. Skipton only stopped writing to H after 
the field agent visit, when it got a new address for Mr A. So while  its true that Mrs A 
wasnt told of the appointment of receivers or the sale of the property   because 
Skipton was by then writing to  C  it had written several letters,  addressed to Mrs A 
alongside Mr A at H, advising them of the mounting arrears.
I therefore think that Mrs A had the chance to find out what  was going on with the 
mortgage from the letters addressed to her at the address she was living  at. And if 
she hadnt received  anything  throughout,  Id have expected her  as a responsible  
person jointly  running a buy to let business   to have queried  with the lender why she 
was no longer receiving  any correspondence  relating to her mortgage.
Finally, even if Skipton  had continued to write to Mrs A at H after Mr A had told it he 
had moved to C, I dont  think  it would  have made  any difference  to the outcome. Mrs 
A hadnt responded to the arrears letters addressed to her at H. And I dont think she 
was in a position to make the mortgage payments in any case. Shes  sent us her 
bank statements for the relevant period. They show that her finances were  tight,  and 
she frequently used  the overdraft on her current account. I dont think  they show that 
she could have afforded to pay the buy to let mortgage. She says she could have 
asked family  to support her, but Ive seen no evidence of that.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I dont think  I can fairly uphold this 
complaint. Skipton did write to Mrs A, at address H, telling her how to update  her 
address on its systems  and telling her (in letters addressed to them  jointly) that the 
mortgage was in arrears  on several  occasions. Mrs A didnt reply. And while  Skipton 
stopped writing to H after the field agent  visit, she didnt have the resources to pay 
the mortgage in any case. So, overall, the outcome would  have  been  the same  even 
if the later letters had also been  sent to H. 
I therefore said I was not minded to uphold  the complaint.
Ref: DRN53831083Skipton said it had nothing further  to add. Mrs A didnt  agree with my provisional decision. 
She said:
Her complaint  was about the lack of communication following the appointment of the 
receiver and about the repossession;
Mrs A didnt  know she needed to sign the original letter telling  Skipton  she and Mr A 
had moved from M to H;
When the field agent met Mr A at C, it was agreed that Mr A would deal with matters;
As Mrs A had received letters addressed to them both at H, she didnt know  Skipton 
had no address for her;
It had been  told she was living at H, and is hiding behind  its policy  to justify not using 
that as her address;
It had been  agreed  between  Mr and Mrs A as part of their divorce  that Mr A would 
take sole responsibility for this property;
Mrs A received the letters addressed  to them both at H, and passed them on to Mr A 
to deal with;
Skipton didnt write to her at H after the meeting with Mr A;
Mrs A could,  if required, provide further evidence  of how she was able to make  the 
payments if she had been told;
Mrs A would have taken steps to avoid the repossession  if she had known about it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs A says that she and Mr A had agreed between them that Mr A would take 
responsibility for the property. But Mrs A remained a party  to the mortgage.  That means she 
was jointly  and severally liable for the debt  in other words, Skipton could pursue either or 
both of them for the full amount. Their liability to Skipton wasnt  affected by the agreement  
between them.
Mrs A accepts that she received the letters  Skipton wrote to them jointly  at H. While  she 
passed them  on to Mr A to deal with, the letters would have made her aware that the 
mortgage was in mounting arrears and that she continued to be a party  to the mortgage  and 
liable for it. 
Those letters were only sent to H until Mr A told Skiptons agent he had moved  to C. Thats  
because they were sent to Mr As correspondence  address, with the letters  sent to Mrs As 
correspondence address first sent to M, and then not sent at all when it was clear Mrs A was 
no longer living at M. But in both cases the letters were addressed to both Mr and Mrs A as 
joint holders of the mortgage.
Skipton didnt write to H following the field agent visit. Thats because it hadnt updated 
Mrs A address on its systems  because while Mr A had authorised  a change to his contact 
details, Mrs A hadnt authorised a change to hers. But Skipton did write  to Mrs A, at H, to tell 
her what  she needed  to do to update her address. And it wrote under  joint names to H 
several times to say that the mortgage  was in mounting arrears.  Mrs A didnt take any action  
at this point. She chose  to leave matters to Mr A; but that was her choice  Im satisfied 
Skipton had done what it could to ensure both parties were aware of the situation and that 
Mrs A was in fact aware,  at least up to the point the field agent went  out. 
Ref: DRN53831084Although Mrs As complaint is about its failure  to contact her after that point, I dont think 
Skipton acted unfairly  it was in contact  with one of the joint borrowers,  and didnt have up 
to date contact details for the other even though it had advised her what  needed to be done. 
And when  Mrs A did receive  its letters, she passed them  on to Mr A without taking action 
herself.
This was a joint mortgage,  and both Mr and Mrs A were jointly and severally  liable for it. I 
dont think its unfair  for Skipton to hold both of them jointly and severally liable  for the 
shortfall following  the repossession.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5383108