K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains he thought he had an enhanced annuity with Aviva  Life and Pensions UK 
Limited, but has recently found out he doesnt.  
Mr Rs policy  mentions  his wife as his dependent  who will receive  his death benefits, but as 
he is the annuitant, the complaint is in his sole name. 
background
In October  2011 when  he was 60 Mr R spoke to an introducer C about purchasing an 
annuity with Aviva. An introducer can provide factual information  and answer  questions  
about Avivas products  but isnt permitted  to give financial advice  or recommend products.
Mr R said he didnt need advice as hed done research and made the decision  himself. C 
gave Mr R a quote  for a standard annuity.  But because of his wifes poor health, he thought  
Mr R might be eligible for an enhanced  annuity.  So C sent a health  questionnaire to Mr R for 
completion. Mr R wasnt  willing to complete the questionnaire so a standard annuity  was set 
up in accordance with the quote provided by C, and subsequently confirmed by T the case 
handler at Aviva. 
Mr Rs paperwork  refers to an enhancement of 125% which he says led him to believe he 
had an enhanced annuity. He was disappointed to find out he doesnt, so he wants  the 
policy cancelled. Aviva said hed declined to complete their health questionnaire which is 
necessary to assess if there are lifestyle or health factors  which may make  Mr R eligible for 
an enhanced annuity. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had given Mr R the product hed asked for. So its come to 
me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Mr R has raised  a number of concerns, so for ease of reading  Ill use headings to explain 
my reasons.  Although the events complained about happened in 2011, which  is more  than 
six years  ago, Aviva consented  to us looking into the complaint.
Mr Rs pension savings were with another provider W and he wanted to transfer them to 
Aviva to purchase an annuity.  An enhanced  annuity  may be available to people  whose  
health or lifestyle may reduce  their life expectancy. Businesses ask for medical information 
to enable their underwriters to assess eligibility.  Without this, the annuity  will be set up on 
standard terms. 
conduct of C  the introducer
Ive listened to the initial call with C, the introducer, who Aviva  refers to as their non-
advisory representative. He explained  he couldnt  give financial advice, but Mr R said he 
didnt want advice hed have to pay for. C explained to Mr R about the open market  option 
but Mr R said hed done his research and knew what he wanted. So C gave  Mr R a quote  for 
a standard annuity and made sure he understood that once set up an annuity  cannot be 
changed. He determined that Mr R or his wife arent smokers and then asked if they were  
generally in good health. Mr R said his wife hadnt  been very well. When asked for more  
Ref: DRN59310052details he reluctantly said shed been diagnosed  with breast  cancer in 2004  and was 
undergoing treatment so was suffering  from the effects of chemo-  and radio-therapy.  He also 
said she was borderline  diabetic. Although Mr R knew their heights, and thought their BMI 
was within  the normal range,  he wasnt sure of their weights or his wifes medication. So C 
said hed send out a standard quote but would include health questionnaires with questions 
relating to cancer and diabetes, as such health conditions could mean hed get a better 
income. He responded to Mr Rs query  about commission payments, and then recapped the 
forms hed be sending  to Mr R and what hed need  to do.
The application form signed by Mr R on 24 October  2011 has the Pension Annuity 
(Transfer) box ticked (not the Enhanced Pension  Annuity Transfer). And the non-smoker 
box has been ticked for both Mr R and his wife. Mr R says C didnt say he could shop 
around, or that other companies  could  offer better  enhancements. From listening to the call I 
think C wouldve provided more  information,  but Mr R didnt give him the opportunity as he 
said hed done  a lot of research himself and knew what he wanted.  Mr R also complained  
that C didnt mention Avivas Fixed Term  Retirement Plan which  was available in 2011,  but 
Aviva says this was only sold with advice. So Mr R wouldve had to appoint  a financial 
advisor which he told C he didnt  want.  From  what Ive seen, I dont think C did misrepresent 
himself or exaggerate his knowledge as Mr R suggests. 
did Mr R apply for an enhanced annuity?
Ive also listened  to two calls Mr R had with T, the Aviva case handler.  She first rang Mr R on 
Saturday 29 October 2011  on receipt of his application form to say shed requested the 
funds from W via the online system.  She mentioned the enhanced pension but Mr R said he 
thought the questionnaire asked for lots of personal  information which  he found quite 
intrusive. T reassured him it would only be shared with their underwriters and is kept 
confidential. Mr R asked  what kind of a difference it could make. T said she couldnt really 
say as no two people are the same. But just having high blood pressure and cholesterol may 
result is a small uplift, and conditions  such as diabetes, heart disease or cancer can make a 
big difference. Mr R asked if it was possible to estimate the maximum increase, but T said 
there isnt really a maximum. Some people with only five years  to live can get a massive 
enhancement. She said its the only type of policy where the more ill you are the more it 
benefits you, so completing the questionnaire  might be in his best interests.  She warned he 
couldnt change  his mind once the annuity  was set up. Mr R said he didnt think hed change 
his mind as he thought  the form was a bit formidable. The underwriters arent  available at the 
weekend, so T suggested he call in the week and ask the underwriters whether his health 
conditions would make  a difference. Then he could send the form in on the back of that 
conversation. Mr R said this was a good idea and hed think  about  it. 
T called Mr R on 7 November 2011  with the final quote. He said hed discussed the medical 
questionnaire with his wife and they decided not to send it in. T asked if he wanted to speak 
to the underwriter, and he asked if delaying would affect the value. T explained the funds 
would be vested on receipt, but if the underwriters were in the process of assessing  his 
entitlement, any uplift could be added later. I think at that point Mr R understood any 
enhancement to his annuity  would be based on the underwriters assessing his health which 
he didnt want.  
Finally T asked Mr R if hed been happy with the service  hed received  from Aviva  and he 
said he was, and hed be 8/10 likely to recommend them. But he took the opportunity to ask 
again whether  commission was deducted from his fund. T explained the commissions  paid 
Ref: DRN59310053by Aviva not directly by its customers, and the impact of paying it via an adjusted  rate was 
less than a lump sum reduction of his fund, which Mr R seemed to accept.
The confirmation paperwork dated 14 November 2011 refers to a Lifetime Annuity for the 
annuitant Mr R, with Mrs R as his dependent who will receive his death benefits.  It says the 
amount has been  assessed on Mr Rs post code, his marital status and he and his wife both 
being non-smokers, so no health  or lifestyle factors  have  been considered. As well as 
signing the application form, Mr R gave his verbal consent to C and T that he wanted to 
transfer his pension fund from W to Aviva  for the purpose of purchasing an annuity.  And 
Mr R was very clear at the outset hed made that decision himself and didnt need advice. 
Although hed been previously told that once an annuity is set up it cant be amended, Aviva 
agreed to consider doing so due to a sudden change in Mr Rs health. In a call on 18 
November 2011  Mr R said hed recently been to the doctors and was waiting for an 
appointment for some tests. Aviva  agreed  to wait two weeks and told Mr R to call again with 
his results to see how that affected his annuity.  Theres no record that he called back  so the 
standard annuity remained in place. 
Mr R told our investigator he didnt receive the health questionnaire and says Aviva  cant  
prove it was sent.  I appreciate he may not remember what  happened so many years ago. 
But I think its clear from the calls he did receive the questionnaire and wasnt  referring to the 
application form, as he commented it was formidable and asked lots of intrusive questions  
which he didnt want to answer. Mr R told our investigator at the time hed needed heart 
surgery, which may explain  why he didnt get round to it. But without the completed  health 
questionnaire and possibly a medical report, Avivas underwriters werent in a position  to 
assess Mr Rs eligibility  for an enhanced annuity. And they made it clear more  than once, 
annuities generally  cant be changed  once theyre set up.
did the paperwork lead Mr R to think he had an enhanced annuity?
In his complaint  to this service, Mr R referred to a page of the illustration paperwork headed 
Financial Advisor  information. It says To: Direct  offer Misc and then gives Cs full name.   
Although Cs an introducer  not a financial advisor  Aviva  still paid him £1,078.43 for 
introducing the business. Underneath the figure it says: Commission  option1% of the single 
premium. Enhancement: 125%. Then theres a line for Cs signature as the recipient of the 
payment. All of which  suggests this page is addressed to the introducer or financial advisor 
not Mr R as the customer.
Mr R says he thought  the illustration/quotation  was a legally binding  document confirming he 
was getting an enhanced  annuity. But the enhancement here refers to the commission  
received by C, not Mr Rs annuity. And a quote  or illustration isnt a legally binding  
document, as the figures can change, as they did in Mr Rs case  by a few pence. 
Mr R says he made his decision based on the 125% enhancement.  But thats not supported  
by his calls with both C and T which made clear his eligibility  for an enhanced annuity  would 
require him to disclose  information about his own and his wifes health to the underwriters. 
From the sequence of events it seems Mr R knew on 18 November 2011 he didnt already 
have an enhanced annuity, as his recent  change  in health made him think  he might  now be 
eligible for one. And he knew hed need to give Aviva the results of his medical tests to 
enable an assessment to be made. So Im not persuaded he interpreted  the financial 
advisor information page of the policy in the way he says he did. 
Ref: DRN59310054commission 
Mr R is clearly concerned commissions been  deducted from his fund.  C isnt a financial 
advisor, hes an introducer, but hes still paid commission  for bringing in business.  I see why 
Mr R, as a direct customer, doesnt  think he should pay it. Aviva  says 125% is the starting 
point for commission which is then reduced depending  on various factors,  such as being a 
direct customer. And in both calls T explained how commission charges are factored in to 
the rates, not paid direct from the fund, and how thats better than a front loaded  one off 
payment. 
Aviva advised Mr R had previously complained about this commission payment in 2015, 
when he asked for the £1,078.43 to be refunded  to his fund.  As that point has been 
previously addressed by this service I cant look at it again. But this suggests Mr R didnt 
think in 2015 he should have an enhanced annuity. 
summary
I appreciate Mr R may not remember exactly what happened so many  years ago. But from 
everything Ive seen I dont think he applied for an enhanced annuity and he didnt provide 
the information Aviva needed to assess his eligibility for one. So it follows  I dont uphold his 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5931005