K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  Mrs and Mr B say 
Nationwide Building  Society (trading both as Nationwide Anglia and later as Nationwide) 
mis-sold this type of cover  to them in 1990  and 1993.
For consistency Ill refer to Nationwide throughout this decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2019,  setting out why I 
thought the complaint about  the mis-sale element of this case  shouldnt be upheld.  
But I said that I thought Nationwide needed  to think again about whether Mrs and Mr B are 
due back any money  for the undisclosed  commission it might have received from selling 
them these two MPPI policies. This is because the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
issued guidance  to lenders who provided mortgages between  certain  dates. The rules cover 
mortgages where the lender expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the MPPI premium). And where  this occurred the FCA has said lenders 
should pay back the amount of commission and profit  share that was above  50% of the 
MPPI premium.
In my provisional decision,  I asked both parties to provide any further submissions or 
information to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For the mis-sale element of the complaint, I didnt receive any new evidence or information.  
However, Nationwide said it now admits it should pay some  money  back  for the commission  
it received that was above the 50% threshold. 
In summary,  theres no reason for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
So, all this means  that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI to 
Mrs and Mr B because  I dont think it mis-sold  the MPPI. But Nationwide  has told us it 
agrees it now needs to calculate and pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs and Mr B 
because:
When the policies  were sold, Nationwide now accepts it expected  to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI premiums). It should have told 
Mrs and Mr B about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mrs and Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  must  pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the MPPI  premiums   and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN53883812I direct  Nationwide Building Society  to pay back to Mrs and Mr B any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. I also direct it to add simple  
interest to each payment. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year 
from then on.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs and Mr B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs and Mr B any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53883813summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  mortgage  payment  protection insurance (MPPI). Mrs and Mr B say Nationwide 
Building Society (trading both as Nationwide Anglia and later as Nationwide) mis-sold  this type of 
cover to them in 1990 and 1993.
For consistency Ill refer to Nationwide throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators  looked  into this complaint  and said it shouldnt  be upheld.  But Mrs and Mr B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im not intending to uphold  Mrs and Mr Bs complaint about  being  mis-sold  the 
MPPI. 
But I think Nationwide needs  to think again about whether  Mrs and Mr B are due back  any money for 
the undisclosed commission  it might  have  received  from selling them these  two MPPI policies. 
This is because the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued guidance to lenders who provided 
mortgages between certain dates. The rules cover mortgages where the lender expected to get a 
high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI premium). And where  this 
occurred the FCA has said lenders should pay back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium.
Nationwide told our adjudicator that it didnt think this applied to Mrs and Mr Bs MPPI sales. But I 
currently think  the rules  do apply  it seems to me Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage wasnt completely paid 
off until 2011. This is because a nominal  sum of £1 seems to have been outstanding  in the mortgage 
account and I therefore think their case is caught  under the FCA rules Ive mentioned  above. So 
Nationwide now needs to tell me what level of commission, if any, it received and this will determine 
whether Mrs and Mr B are due back  some money.
However, as far as the actual mis-sale allegation is concerned, I agree with our adjudicator that the 
complaint shouldnt  be upheld. Ill now explain why I think this.
the mis-sale  allegation(s)
Mrs and Mr Bs main  points  of complaint seem to be that they werent given enough information and 
they were led to believe MPPI was compulsory.  They also think  it was unnecessary  because  they had 
jobs which came with sick pay.
I certainly dont doubt Mrs and Mr Bs recollections  are honest and genuine. However  these events 
happened many years  ago and its obviously possible that they just dont remember  everything that 
was said or done at the time.
I can see, for example, that Mrs and Mr B had an original mortgage they had taken out in the 1980s. 
It seems they then made applications to borrow more money  on that mortgage several times 
thereafter. Perhaps  not surprisingly,  Nationwide cant produce  all the documentation  relating to all of 
Mrs and Mr Bs borrowing, but given this all goes back over 30 years, this isnt unreasonable  and 
businesses dont need to keep records indefinitely.   
Ref: DRN53883814What I do know is that during the mid-1980s  and up until 1990, Mrs and Mr B didnt have  any MPPI. 
But by then, they had taken out their original mortgage and then borrowed more  money  on at least 
one more  occasion. Weve  still got access to some of the forms used during these two events  and I 
note Mrs and Mr B were offered - but turned down  - MPPI. 
Because they had therefore undertaken a total of two borrowing  events without any MPPI, I think  it 
would be fairly easy for them to see that MPPI wasnt something  that was compulsory. Put another  
way, they would have known it wasnt something  they needed  to take out if they didnt  want to.
I can see that in 1990, they once again asked to borrow  more money. But this time they were sold 
MPPI. The form they both signed specifically  asked Do you wish to cover your Home Improver  Loan 
with Mortgage Payment  Cover? The yes box was ticked and the no box was left blank. Mrs and Mr 
B signed the form. So the borrowing in respect of 1990 was duly protected by an MPPI policy 
covering Mr B. I was sent the policy  schedule  he was provided with, confirming  the cover  had been  
set up in his name.
Although Mrs and Mr B took out two more further advances,  in 1991 and 1993, only the latter of these 
had MPPI attached. We dont seem to have as much  paperwork in relation to the 1993 sale,  but it 
looks like the same  process used for the 1990 MPPI sale was followed.
I cant  say why Mrs and Mr B decided  to operate  their finances like this where some borrowing had 
MPPI and some didnt.  But there  is persuasive  evidence  in the documents  Ive seen that they would 
have been aware the MPPI was being set up for them in 1990 and 1993  and that this was as a 
result of them specifically asking for it. 
I therefore  think Nationwide got their consent for both policies.
I dont think the two MPPI sales were carried  out on an advised basis. So Nationwides responsibility 
was limited to making  sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading. Overall, I 
think it probably was. 
I think  this because  by looking at the sale documents, Mrs and Mr B would  have been able to see who 
was covered, what was covered and how much they would eventually need to pay for the MPPI. I 
cant say Mrs and Mr B were told everything they should have  been, but I think  they had enough  
information on which  to make an informed choice.
Mrs and Mr B told us about the jobs they had and they implied that they didnt really need any MPPI. 
But their jobs dont  necessarily mean the MPPI wasnt of use. Only Mr B was ever covered, and if 
hed lost his job or was too ill to work, it could have paid out for up to 2 years. As their mortgage was 
secured against their home, not being able to make the full repayments could have had serious 
consequences. Mr B was also eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  exclusions we 
tend to see in these policies  and it looks like the monthly premium  would have been affordable in their 
situation.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr B, but I think they agreed for the 1990 and 1993 policies to be 
added. I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold.
undisclosed commission
Nationwide needs to tell me whether it thinks it should pay some of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs and 
Mr B if, when the policy was sold, Nationwide  expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium).  Depending  on the dates and the commission levels, 
Nationwide may have  had to tell Mrs and Mr B about the commission.  And if it didnt, that was unfair. 
I look forward  to clarity on this matter and a comprehensive answer, with evidence,  from Nationwide.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN53883815For the reasons  set out above, Im not intending  to uphold  Mrs and Mr Bs complaint about  this sale.  
But depending on Nationwides response about the commission, I may be asking it to put some 
matters right.
The parties  have until 28 February 2019 to send me any responses, after which I intend  to issue a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN5388381