K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss representative, a claims management  company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was mis-sold a whole  of life policy by Barclays Bank Plc. 
In short,  the CMC said: 
The policy was unsuitable  to protect  a capital repayment mortgage.
The reviewable nature  of the policy wasn't explained. 
It doesn't understand how Mrs S was classed as someone  prepared to take a 
balanced risk. 
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said: 
Theres limited  information held by Barclays from the point of sale. Hes therefore 
made an assessment  based on what he thinks is likely to have happened.  
He agrees that a whole of life policy isn't generally suitable cover for a mortgage.  
It was recorded  that Mrs S already had term assurance policy with a £50,000  sum 
assured in respect of her mortgage. 
Hes unable to safely say that Mrs S wasn't told about the reviewable nature of the 
policy. The policy has been  reviewed  a number of times, resulting in a reduction in 
the sum assured, but theres no record of any complaints  made against Barclays 
about the reviewable nature. 
A balanced approach isn't directly relevant to his type of policy.  The aim of the 
investment element  isn't to produce  an investment return  it was to provide a buffer  for 
when the cost of life cover became higher than the premiums paid. And reduced the 
risk of high premiums following review. 
He wasn't satisfied the fund was unreasonable in the wider circumstances. 
The £200 compensation offered by Barclays  for the delay in dealing with this 
complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. Its asked for an ombudsmans  
decision and made the following key points:
The documents completed suggest  the policy  was used for the mortgage.  
It was recorded  by the adviser  that mortgage  was a priority.  Why would  that be the 
case if it was covered by a term assurance policy?  
The policy was also set up on a maximum cover basis.  But this is unsuitable given 
that the cost is likely to increase  as Mrs S gets older. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicator (and the CMC) that a whole of life policy isn't generally  
considered suitable protection for a repayment mortgage because  the level of cover  remains  
Ref: DRN52200962the same  or increases,  whilst the mortgage  reduces over time. So, inevitably the consumer 
ends up paying  for much  more cover than they need.  
But in this instance, Im not persuaded that is the reason why the recommendation was 
made. I note it was recorded that Mrs S already  had a term assurance policy for £50,000 in 
respect of her mortgage. So, on balance, Im unable to safely say the whole of life policy  was 
recommended for the purpose of protecting her mortgage. I appreciate this doesnt accord 
with some of what was recorded by the adviser, but neither does it support the CMCs  claim 
of a mis-sale. 
On balance it seems that it was recommended  for additional life cover, to make sure that 
there were funds in place  for her family  when she died or if she was diagnosed with a critical 
illness. Im conscious at the time Mrs S had a young child and her husband was also finically 
dependent on her. In the circumstances,  I think the recommendation generally met her 
objectives and need for family  protection.
I appreciate she had some life cover with her employer  (around twice her annual salary) but 
that cover  was only available so long as she was still an employee,  and itd only pay out on 
death, and not if she was unable to work through a critical  illness.
Im also mindful of the question posed by the CMC  about priority. Its not entirely clear why 
this is the case.  But its possible despite  having cover in relation to the mortgage, that 
mortgage was always her priority. And I can understand why, given that she had a young 
child and a husband who was dependant on her, it was essential  that her family had a roof 
over their heads in case something happened  to her. 
I note the point about the balanced  risk. In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is 
split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost of cover  in that month. The remainder 
is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of the cover is not fixed  and actually  increases  with 
age, as the CMC has pointed out. This isnt unique to Barclays but generally how a whole of 
life policy  operates.  The hope is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the 
shortfall when the policy reaches the point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the 
premium. These policies arent designed  as investments or savings plans. With that in mind, 
Im unable to say in this instance a balanced risk was unsuitable in the broader 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5220096