K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) made an entry about her on 
a fraud  prevention database when it rejected a mortgage application shed made.
background
Miss S applied for a mortgage directly with Halifax in 2015. She says that Halifaxs adviser 
told her not to disclose  historic adverse  credit  information, including previous mortgage  
arrears  so she didnt.
Halifax declined the application. Some time later, Miss S found Halifax  had recorded  an 
entry on CIFAS, a fraud prevention database,  about her.
Miss S complained to Halifax about the marker,  and it issued  its final response in May 2018, 
saying it thought the marker had been  added fairly and refused to remove  it. Miss S 
complained to Halifax again in April 2019,  and referred the complaint to us in May 2019.
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax acted  unfairly, so Miss S asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S explained the reasons that she wasnt able to pursue the complaint  sooner, within  the 
time limits set by the regulator.  Based  on what she explained, Halifax  consented  to our 
service considering the complaint. So Im satisfied Miss S complaint is one we can consider.
Like all lenders, Halifax considers information  and evidence it receives in respect of a 
mortgage application. It carries out its standard underwriting checks  to try to confirm the 
accuracy of what its told and to decide  whether it wants to lend.  Its important to note that 
theres no obligation to lend  and theres no obligation  to give reasons  for a refusal either.
After the mortgage  application was declined, Miss S discovered that a utilities  company had 
incorrectly linked an address to her that shed never lived at. This meant that when  Halifax  
checked her credit file, it found adverse data that shouldnt  have been linked to Miss S  
including a defaulted account. Miss S contacted the utilities company about the information 
incorrectly linked to her credit file, and that informations  now been removed.
Halifax says it recorded the entry on CIFAS as Miss S hadnt  disclosed that shed  previously 
been in arrears on her mortgage, as well as a number of defaulted  accounts  that werent 
connected to the address shed been linked to incorrectly. It said that, even discounting the 
information linked to Miss S incorrectly, it felt it had acted fairly in applying the markers.
Miss S accepts that she had missed payments on her mortgage  and other debts, which led 
to a number of defaults, within six years  of making the mortgage application.
When making a referral to CIFAS, Halifax has to have reasonable grounds to do so. I think it 
had reasonable grounds to suspect that Miss S had given misleading information in support 
of an application.  Miss S says she was told to do so by Halifaxs  adviser.  I think its unlikely a 
Ref: DRN56194712mortgage adviser would suggest she does that knowing it would be discovered. And even if 
the adviser did, Miss S still knew she wasnt answering the questions  she was asked 
accurately.
Based on what it knew at the time,  I dont think it was unfair  that Halifax made  the referral. 
And based on the evidence Ive seen since, I dont think Halifax  would have acted differently 
even if it had only seen  her correct account history when it checked  her credit file  which 
was still different to what she declared in the application. So, I cant say it acted 
unreasonably in recording an entry on CIFAS  and I cant  reasonably  ask it to remove the 
entry now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5619471