K822xComplaint
The estate  of Mr S complains that Bank  of Ireland  (UK) Plc (trading as 
Post Office  Financial Services) unnecessarily asked for a Certificate of Confirmation before it 
would release funds held on its behalf.  
Background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 May 2020. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I thought  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and what Post Office should do to put things right. I invited both 
parties to respond  with any additional comments they wished me to consider before I made 
my final decision. 
Mr S2 responded  to say that Post Offices delay had impact  his ability to get the estate 
finalised which, in turn, led to a loss for the beneficiaries.  
Post Office  responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I take Mr S2s point, but as I explained  in my provisional decision, the complainant  here is 
the estate. I can only award  compensation for the estates losses. Whilst the beneficiaries of 
Mr S estate may have  received higher interest  rates, the funds Post Office  held were at 
rates of between 0.1% and 0.25%. I have considered  Mr S2s response  but I havent  been 
persuaded to increase the award to cover interest  as requested.
Ive considered everything Mr S2 and Post Office  have said in response to my provisional  
decision. I remain of the view that the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Post Office 
to cover the additional  legal costs the estate of Mr S incurred as a result of being asked to 
obtain Confirmation. I also still think that Post Office  should pay the estate of Mr S £250 in 
respect of the inconvenience caused.  
As I havent  been  persuaded  to change my view of this complaint Im going to endorse the 
above settlement.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay the 
estate of Mr S £250 for the inconvenience  caused and £2,638.56 to cover  the additional 
costs incurred. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S2, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr S, to accept or reject my decision before  3 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN53538482Copy of Provisional Decision  dated 1 May 2020
Complaint
The estate of Mr S complains that Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (trading as 
Post Office Financial  Services) unnecessarily asked for a Certificate of Confirmation before it would  
release funds held on its behalf. 
Background
In October 2016 solicitors  acting for the estate of Mr S contacted Post Office  and notified it of his 
death. Post Office wrote back and asked for a Grant  of Probate (Certificate of Confirmation in 
Scotland). 
In October 2017 the solicitors contacted Post Office again to say that the late Mr S wife and sole heir 
had passed away during  the process of settling his estate. The solicitors wanted to proceed using 
Confirmation for her estate. 
Over the following  months the estate  of Mr S solicitors dealt with Post Offices legal department 
which, on 3 May 2018, agreed to proceed without Confirmation for his. Post Office has confirmed that 
the documents required by its legal department were provided by the estate of Mr S solicitors on 24 
May 2018.
The funds held werent released and in the months that followed Post Office continued  to insist that 
Confirmation for the estate of Mr S was required. The estate of Mr S complained to Post Office and it 
responded on 16 August 2018 but it didnt agree  to proceed without Confirmation. 
The Certificate of Confirmation for the estate of Mr S was sent to Post Office  on 
8 November 2018 and the funds were released on 13 November 2018.  
The complaint was referred to our service. During  the investigation Post Offices case handler 
confirmed Confirmation wasnt required for the estate of Mr S as its legal team had agreed to proceed 
without it in May 2018. But the complaint wasnt upheld by the investigator and Mr S2 (on behalf of 
the estate) asked to appeal. As a result, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different decision to the investigator.  
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this complaint  should  be upheld.  
The circumstances of this case are broadly  agreed by all parties and Post Office,  in its 
correspondence with our service, accepts that instructions from its legal  department about how to 
settle the late Mr S estate  in May 2018 werent  followed. The emails Ive seen indicate  the legal 
department was willing  to proceed, subject to seeing certain documents, on 3 May 2018.  The 
complaint handler for this case has confirmed  that the estate of Mr S solicitors  fulfilled those  
requirements on 24 May 2018. The funds werent released until 13 November 2018, after 
Confirmation was unnecessarily obtained  for the estate of Mr S, a delay  of around six months. 
Im satisfied the estate of Mr S has had to pay for unnecessary legal  work because  of 
Post Offices continued  request for Confirmation. I think the fairest approach is for Post Office to cover 
those costs. 
Mr S2 has told us that the situation caused a great deal of inconvenience to the estate  and distress to 
him and his sister. I can see there was a period of around six months where Post Office should  have 
been able to release the funds it held. I agree its fair that Post Office  pays compensation  that takes 
into account  the impact  of the inconvenience  caused to the estate of Mr S by the delay. Whilst I dont 
Ref: DRN53538483doubt Mr S2 and his family members were caused  considerable anxiety over the delays, the 
complainant here is the estate of Mr S. I can only make an award  to cover issues that impacted  the 
estate, not its executors. As an estate, by its nature, cant experience distress or anxiety  I cant make 
an award on that basis. But, as Ive said above,  I agree that there was a considerable level of 
inconvenience for the estate of Mr S and Ive taken that into account when deciding how to settle this 
complaint. 
Mr S2 has asked for compensation to cover interest at a rate of 1.5%.  But the account  in question  
was an Easy Saver that had a reasonably low rate of interest of between 0.1% and 0.25%. I havent 
seen anything  to show the funds would  have received 1.5% whilst  they remained  within the estate so I 
dont think it would be fair to tell Post Office to settle in line with that interest rate. In line with what  Ive 
said above, I can only compensate the estate of Mr S for the delays. 
The solicitors acting on behalf of the estate of Mr S have already provided a breakdown of additional 
costs incurred as a result of the delays,  additional communication with Post Office and requirement to 
obtain Confirmation. The costs were supplied  by the solicitors accountant and total £2,638.56. Ive 
reviewed the costs and they all appear to be reasonable. A copy  of the costs as set out by the solicitor 
will be sent to Post Office along with this provisional  decision.
Unless I see anything  that changes my mind, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Post Office  
to pay the estate of Mr S £250 for the inconvenience caused by the issues raised and £2,638.56 for 
the additional costs it incurred. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay the estate of Mr S £250  for the inconvenience caused and £2,638.56 
to cover the additional costs  incurred. 
Mr S2, on behalf of the estate of Mr S, and Post Office has until 1 June 2020 to send me any 
additional comments or information they would like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5353848