K820x#14complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that Santander UK Plc has registered a default against its 
borrowing.
background
R had an overdraft with Santander of £20,000.  In 2016 Santander withdrew this facility and 
said R needed to make arrangements to repay the outstanding borrowing. In June 2018 
Santander decided  that, as payments were  not being made  in line with agreed plans, it was 
going to register  a default.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-Hed listened to recordings of calls that the director of R had with Santander. 
-There was no evidence that R had said it would pay off borrowing within  two to three 
months as it had claimed 
-Santander did not think that R could  not commit to the level of payments needed as 
R did not have  sufficient monthly  cash flow.
-Temporary arrangements were made but R did not make payments  in line with them.
-Santander made clear  the consequences of not repaying the borrowing. And it sent R 
letters confirming what had been agreed.
-The default had been fairly registered.
R did not agree. It said that Santander  did not do a responsible enough job in dealing with 
the borrowing. It did not provide help or the right kind of guidance. The threat of default was 
always there and Santander took the first chance  it got to register  this. R said it thought it 
had a good relationship  with Santander  and it was no more than one or two payments late. 
And it had made steps to bring down the debt. R said it felt that it had no influence when 
dealing with an organisation  of the size of Santander.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that early  in 2016  R had borrowing of nearly £20,000. And that by June 2018 
when the notice of default was sent the borrowing was just over £5,000. The account  and 
facility were withdrawn from use in 2016  when Santander learnt that R had actually been 
dissolved. That was an administrative error by R that was corrected. But Santander stood by 
its decision about withdrawing the borrowing which at that time was just under £11,000.
Santander gave  R periods  of breathing space. And then in 2017 the director  of R discussed  
repayment plans  with Santander.  It wanted  to see any plan agreed clear the borrowing within 
15 months. And that meant  monthly payments over twice as much  as the £300 R said it 
could afford.  A later budget planner also showed that R did not have sufficient cash flow 
even to make the lower  payments  it had offered.
R said in October 2017 that it would make the payments Santander  wanted  starting  from 1 
November 2017.  And Santander set a temporary plan for two months  and said that following 
this R should contact it for a review. The first payment was not made until 29 November 
2017 albeit that it was for two months.  R then did make subsequent payments into 2018. 
Ref: DRN54542282R had a further discussion with Santander about  the borrowing. Santander sent a letter on 1 
May 2018 stating  that R had agreed to pay £600  on 25 May 2018. R did not do so and the 
payment came on 12 June 2018.  But before that Santander had written to R on 4 June 2018 
to say that the agreement was broken and for it to get in touch  urgently.  There  is no record  
that it did before Santander issued a default  notice on 15 June  2018.  The borrowing was not 
cleared and Santander says that the default was registered.
I appreciate the steps that R has taken  to repay the borrowing. And that its now said to this 
service that it would clear  all the remaining amount  if Santander would remove  the default. 
Against this by the time of the default R had had a period of two years to repay  overdraft 
borrowing which was always repayable on demand. R was still trading  but Santander did not 
think it could responsibly set a plan to clear the borrowing within  its required timescale. That 
meant after periods  of breathing space  it would only put in place very temporary  
arrangements. I dont think it could give R any advice about what further  to do and I know 
the director referred to having input from Rs accountant.
These commitments were  confirmed in writing. I know the director  of R thought that as long 
as the payments were broadly made  that there wouldnt  be a problem. And says that he 
could not payments when abroad. But to Santander  the arrangements   particularly the one 
made in May 2018 were  an important guide  to whether a more  permanent plan was 
practicable. It was open to R to go back to Santander and tell it if it could not meet  this and 
that was especially following  the letters in June 2018.
So on balance I dont  have a reasonable basis to say Santander was wrong to register  a 
default  the whole balance being due with no permanent arrangement and temporary  
commitments broken. Or, when looking over the whole period since  2016, that it acted 
unfairly. I understand that the director of R will be very disappointed  with my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to R to accept or reject 
my decision  before 22 November 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5454228