K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complained because Optimum Credit  Limited wouldnt let them  transfer their
second charge  mortgage loan when they moved house.
As a result they had to pay an early  repayment  charge (ERC)  of £1,808.12. Theyd like this
refunded, and some compensation for the distress this caused  them.
background
In 2017, Mr and Mrs T wanted to buy a holiday property. To do so, they needed a loan of
£60,000. They went to a broker, and took out a second charge loan with Optimum.
The offer for the loan was dated 19 October  2017. The product they took out was a three
year fixed  rate, and the offer set out that an ERC would be payable  if they repaid it before
the end of three years. Another section of the offer, section 10, was headed Flexible
Features and this included the following:
You may be able to transfer this second charge mortgage to another  property. This
depends on your circumstances and the property meeting our lending  criteria at that time
and is not guaranteed. If you think you might like to do this please contact us so we can
confirm whether this is possible.
Mr and Mrs T went ahead  with the loan in autumn  2017. In late May 2018, they got in touch
with Optimum and said they were  planning to move, and wanted to transfer their second
charge to their new property.
Optimum refused. It said it no longer offered this service, and hadnt done  so since  the
middle of 2016.  So Mr and Mrs T would  have to pay off their loan, and pay an ERC as well.
Mr and Mrs T said they believed theyd spoken to someone about  future  options  for
transferring the loan,  before theyd  taken it out. But Optimum said it checked its calls and
there was no record of Mr and Mrs T asking about  a house move.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied and complained to this service. They said theyd understood
there would be an ERC if they paid back the loan within three years,  and theyd been happy
with this because  they had no intention  of paying  it back within  that timescale. But they
hadnt been made aware that if they moved house,  Optimum would require them  to pay back
the loan. Theyd  understood  from the offer that theyd be able to transfer the loan.
Mr and Mrs T told us theyd thought  theyd  discussed this, but Optimum hadnt sent all the
phone calls about the loan. And they also pointed out that, as well as the section in the offer
which Ive quoted above, the possibility of a transfer was also set out in the list of fees which
Optimum had originally  sent them. This tariff sets out:
Transfer  of Charge  application fee £125.  This fee is for an application to transfer our legal
charge to a different property.  The fee is due once we have accepted the application for the
transfer. If we request  an up to date valuation of the property to which you wish to transfer
the charge, a revaluation  fee will be payable  in addition to the transfer of charge fee.
Mr and Mrs T explained that they had excellent  credit ratings  and hadnt  defaulted  on any
loans. Optimum hadnt given them the chance even to be considered.  They also explained
Ref: DRN58791032that they have  now arranged  to pay off their loan,  but they wanted the ERC to be waived,
and some compensation for the distress it had caused them.
The adjudicator was sympathetic, but said she couldnt conclude that Optimum had acted
wrongly. She explained that mortgage regulation  for second charge lenders had changed in
2016, so Optimum had taken the decision to stop offering the facility  to transfer loans. She
said the offer had made it clear  that theyd have  to contact the lender if they wanted to move
the loan to another property, and this wasnt guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy. They said the Optimum had taken the decision in 2016,
before they applied  in 2017. So there had never been a possibility they could transfer their 
loan  but the loan documents indicated this might  be an option. They felt it was scandalous 
that a lender could change its lending policy at any time without informing its customers. 
They explained that Optimum had been  quite rude about the fact it wasnt  possible, when 
theyd initially contacted Optimum. Optimum had put them on hold and had also asserted 
that Mr and Mrs Ts documents wouldnt say what they did about  a possible transfer.
Mr and Mrs T also said theyd have understood  if the transfer had been considered, but
assessed as too risky,  though they pointed out this was unlikely because  their new first
charge mortgage  was very small indeed. But Optimum hadnt even considered their request.
They told us they wouldnt have taken out the product they did, if there  hadnt  been an option
to transfer the loan on moving house.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I said I could quite understand why Mr and Mrs T were  upset  
about this. Theyd  had to pay a substantial ERC, causing them a financial loss. Theyd  told 
us this was a significant sum to them. Theyd  also had the inconvenience of having  to find 
the money to pay off the £60,000 second  charge loan. They hadnt expected to have to do 
either of these.
I said I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs T relied on the offer documents and genuinely believed 
that if they moved home,  they could apply for the second charge loan to be transferred. I 
noted that there were two places in the offer pack which says this  the offer,  and the tariff of 
charges. I found that Optimum should  not have sent Mr and Mrs T either of these in October 
2017, when it had taken a policy decision not to agree to any transfers where  borrowers had 
moved house. And it had taken that decision over a year earlier,  in mid-2016.
Mr and Mrs T had told us that they wouldnt have taken out the second  charge loan with
Optimum if theyd known  what  the policy really was. I accepted  this. I noted that Optimum 
said it didnt have a record that Mr and Mrs T had asked,  before taking out the loan, what  
would happen  if they wanted  to move. But Mr and Mrs T said that Optimum  didnt provide all 
the calls they made about the loan.  I considered  it was possible that some of the missing  
calls were with the broker, whod have been the main point of contact. I understood that Mr 
and Mrs T are making  a separate complaint  about  the broker.  But it was understandable that 
Mr and Mrs T believed  that transferring the loan would be an option, when Optimums 
paperwork confirmed this in two places.
Ref: DRN58791033I also looked carefully at the wording in the offer. It said ... this depends on your
circumstances and the property meeting out lending criteria at the time I didnt have all 
the information about Mr and Mrs Ts new property, or their personal circumstances. But 
they told us that their first mortgage  on their new home was very small.  And they said they 
had excellent  credit ratings. So I considered  that Mr and Mrs T would have believed theyd 
be a good risk, and would reasonably  have  believed they wouldnt be turned down on 
creditworthiness.
I explained that it wasnt for me to guess what the outcome would have been, if Optimum 
had still been  taking transfer applications  when borrowers moved home. Lenders take their 
own decisions, and the offer did clearly state  that the outcome isnt guaranteed.  For this 
reason, it wasnt open to me to make  a finding  that Optimum shouldnt have charged Mr and 
Mrs T the ERC.
However, I found that Optimum caused  considerable  distress  and inconvenience to Mr and 
Mrs T by its failure to provide accurate, up-to-date documentation. It simply wasnt
true that you may be able to transfer  this second charge mortgage to another property. As
a result,  they had to find money that they hadnt expected  to have to.
So I considered that Optimum should  pay Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience  they suffered.
Finally, I commented that a broker was also involved in Mr and Mrs Ts decision  to take out
the second charge loan with Optimum.  This case is solely against Optimum.  However,  I said 
that I was aware  that Mr and Mrs T were also in the process of bringing  a separate  claim 
against the broker. Its normal with broker arranged loans for most  of the discussion to take 
place between the customer and the broker, rather than the customer and the lender. So I 
explained that its in that complaint  that Mr and Mrs T would want to question  whether there  
were other products with Optimum at that time which offered an identical,  or even lower, rate 
but without any ERC.  I explained that it was not open to me to consider that separate  
complaint against  the broker, as part of this complaint against  Optimum.
responses to my provisional  decision
Optimum accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs T were  very disappointed with my provisional decision. They noted the points in 
the provisional decision where I had come to conclusions in their favour, such  as 
understanding the inconvenience theyd suffered by having to pay off the second charge; 
and saying that Optimum shouldnt have  mentioned  an option  to transfer a mortgage when it 
had taken a policy decision  not to agree to any transfers where borrowers had moved house.
Mr and Mrs T said they were at a loss to understand how £250  could compensate  them in 
any way. They feel that its totally unfair  that this would be considered enough to cover their 
financial losses of over £1,800.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive looked  at what Mr and 
Mrs T have  said in response to the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN58791034I do understand why Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about the amount of compensation I 
considered would be fair. Its true that their financial losses are significantly more than this.
But the problem  is that its not open to me to give them more compensation from Optimum,  
because their mortgage offer, which is the most important document,  clearly  stated that the 
outcome of any such application  wasnt guaranteed:
You may be able to transfer this second charge mortgage to another  property. This
depends on your circumstances and the property meeting our lending  criteria at that time
and is not guaranteed.
So Im not able to change  my provisional decision and award  Mr and Mrs T the full amount 
of their financial losses.
Finally, Id repeat to Mr and Mrs T that its in their separate complaint against the broker that 
theyll want to question  whether there were other products with Optimum at that time which  
offered an identical,  or even lower, rate but without any ERC. Thats because its normal  with 
broker arranged loans  for most of the discussion to take place between  the customer and 
the broker, rather than the customer and the lender. As that complaint  will be against the 
broker, I cant look at that in this complaint against  Optimum.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Optimum Credit Limited to pay Mr and Mrs T £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5879103