K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Amtrust  Europe Limited wont cover  their surveyors fees,  and 
other report costs, after they made a successful claim on their building warranty policy  for 
defects at their property. They also complain about  the delays during the claim.
background
The subject of this complaint is a building of six apartments. Mr H is also representing the 
other leaseholders that own properties in the building, who have separate, but the same 
complaints with our service. All the parties are aware that what  I say here in respect of         
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint,  also applies  to the same  complaints brought by the other 
leaseholders.
The leaseholders building warranty policies  are underwritten by Amtrust, which means its 
responsible for the claim. For ease, I will simply refer to Amtrust when referencing  the 
actions of the parties involved  with the handling  of the claim.
The building was built in 2011, and the leaseholders bought their apartments in 2012. Mr H 
says there  was a significant snagging list which the developer appeared to be dealing with, 
but later that year the developers work stopped,  and significant defects remained 
outstanding. 
Mr H says the leaseholders  were met with increasing resistance from the developer,  so they 
decided to commission their own surveyor to confirm whether  the outstanding issues  were 
major defects that needed to be addressed. In September 2013, the surveyor  reported  on 
the issues. Mr H says the surveyors report failed to generate an improved response  from 
the developer,  so in September 2014, the leaseholders made  a claim under their building 
warranty policies. 
In the first instance,  the developer is responsible for addressing any defects identified  in the 
first two years of the policy. The policy terms define  what a defect is. Amtrust only becomes 
responsible for defects  identified in that period  if certain conditions are met  for example,  
these include the developer: not responding to a claim  within  a reasonable period of time, 
not consenting to resolve  a dispute through Amtrusts dispute resolution service,  and not 
carrying out repairs due to insolvency.
Mr H says Amtrust  attempted  to persuade the developer to deal with the defects. He says 
although this process  was necessary,  it was protracted and pointless as it was known by 
then that the developer had no further funds or resources. Mr H says Amtrust refused to 
progress the claim  until it was satisfied the developer wouldnt complete the outstanding 
works.
Mr H says, in December  2015, he raised a formal complaint and as a result  Amtrust agreed 
to progress matters. However,  he says Amtrust  insisted the leaseholders produce their own 
surveyors report to document the defects. He also says Amtrust challenged many of the 
items in the report the leaseholders went on to submit, but their surveyor defended their 
claim and convinced Amtrust that all the claimed defects were legitimate. 
Ref: DRN51380452Mr H also says, during the claim, Amtrust insisted on further reports for three  of the issues at 
the leaseholders expense, despite  defects being  evident. These reports were in relation to 
water ingress via the windows, water ingress through the atrium  flat roof, and rubble  left in 
the storm drains.
The leaseholders later asked  Amtrust to reimburse the costs they had incurred in respect of 
their surveyor and the further reports  the fees totalled £10,121. However,  Amtrust declined  
to cover the costs. Amtrust quoted a policy term that explains it will cover fees necessarily 
and reasonably incurred in relation to the remedial works, but not fees incurred by a 
policyholder in investigating and/or preparing a claim.
The leaseholders were unhappy  with Amtrusts decision, so they brought a complaint  to this 
service. Mr H says Amtrusts refusal to cover the fees on the grounds they were incurred as 
part of investigating and/or preparing the claim is misleading and unreasonable. He says 
without the surveys Amtrust wouldnt have considered the claim;  and only some windows 
would have been replaced  had the leaseholders  surveyor not repeatedly intervened.  He 
also says Amtrust used the surveys to brief its contractors,  so they had little to do with 
preparing the claim and everything to do with Amtrust preparing its repair programme. 
Mr H also explained there were significant  and unnecessary delays during the claim.  He 
says it took two formal  complaints to ensure the works were  completed in an acceptable 
timescale and he noted  the claim took nearly  four years.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and she thought it should be upheld. She 
accepted the surveyor  fees and report costs had been incurred  at Amtrusts request and/or 
for its benefit. Therefore, she thought the leaseholders should  be reimbursed the £10,121, 
plus interest. In addition, she thought the six leaseholders should each be compensated  
£250 for the delays during  the claim and the inconvenience they suffered. Amtrust 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in April 2020. I explained that I only intended to uphold the 
complaint about  the delays. I also clarified that I was only considering  what had happened 
up to the point the repair programme was finished  and the complaint was brought to us.         
I wasnt considering  the issues  that had since arisen. In my provisional  decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Amtrust has let us know that after the leaseholders brought  this complaint to us in July 2018,  
a further claim was made in October 2018.  This was due to further water ingress  this time 
via the balconies. Amtrust  has explained that a dispute has arisen over how many  of the 
balconies need  to be addressed. But to be clear, Ive not considered that matter  here,  or 
anything thats  happened since this complaint was brought to us. If the leaseholders are 
unhappy with Amtrusts  handling of the balcony  claim, they will need to raise a separate  
complaint so the arguments can be made.
Ref: DRN51380453Turning to this complaint,  having thought about matters carefully, I only intend  to uphold the 
delays aspect. I dont  intend to uphold  the complaint about the surveyors fees or the other  
report costs. I do appreciate my provisional decision will come as a disappointment to the 
leaseholders, particularly as our investigator reached a different outcome.  Ill explain my 
reasons under the following three headings:  surveyors fees, report  costs,  and delays.
surveyors fees
In total, Mr H submitted  seven invoices for surveyors fees. These covered 8 October 2013 
to 31 March 2017.
The policy terms exclude fees that are incurred by a policyholder  to investigate and prepare 
their claim. Like most insurance policies of this nature, the leaseholders policies also dont 
cover fees incurred by a policyholder in the event they decide to appoint a professional to 
represent them. The terms  do however cover surveyors fees that are necessarily  and 
reasonably incurred in relation to the remedial works.  
Therefore, for me to decide Amtrust should  be responsible for the leaseholders  surveyors 
fees, I would  need  to be persuaded  they were necessarily and reasonably  incurred for the 
remedial works (as opposed to investigating an issue or preparing  the claim); or Amtrusts 
actions had unreasonably caused the fees to be incurred. 
- Invoice one and two:
The first two invoices  cover 8 October 2013  to 31 December 2014.
The onus is on the policyholder to show there  are defects covered by their policy  and its for 
them to support their claim. So, generally  speaking,  its not necessarily unreasonable for an 
insurer to request a report before proceeding with its own investigations. But in any event, 
Amtrust didnt request  the leaseholders to commission  their surveyors  report;  it already 
existed before the claim was made. I accept Amtrust  requested  a copy,  but this was 
reasonable in my opinion, given the leaseholders were  relying  on it for their claim. 
After the claim was made in September 2014, Ive seen the leaseholders provided a status 
report from their surveyor,  dated  December 2014. The status report followed the format  of 
the surveyors 2013 report  it listed the issues that were identified  when the leaseholders 
were pursuing the developer directly and highlighted those that remained outstanding. As 
such, Im persuaded this report (and the associated fees) falls under preparing a claim 
given its simply  clarifying the issues that were now being claimed  for.
Given the fees on the first two invoices were  either  incurred before the claim was made, or in 
making the claim, Im satisfied Amtrust isnt responsible for them.  
- Invoice three:
The third invoice is dated up to 30 July 2016.
Ref: DRN51380454Between November  2014 and June 2015,  Amtrust  was liaising with the developer about the 
reported issues. In July 2015, Amtrust took responsibility for the claim and it appointed its 
own surveyor to report. The surveyor visited the site in August 2015,  and the report  was 
finalised in December 2015. Amtrust  issued  its initial claim decision in February  2016.  It 
concluded some  of the issues  were covered, whilst  others required further investigation 
during the remedial works. However,  it also declined some of the issues as not being 
covered under the policy terms. 
Amtrust says the day after its decision letter was issued the leaseholders advised they didnt 
accept all the findings and they would revert. Amtrust also says it chased Mr H in April 2016  
and he advised  the leaseholders had appointed their surveyor to help manage the claim. In 
May 2016, the leaseholders surveyor wrote to Amtrust in response to its claim decision.  
Given the complexity of some of the issues,  and the claim value, I can understand why the 
leaseholders wanted their surveyor to review Amtrusts claim decision. However, I havent 
seen anything that persuades me Amtrust had acted unfairly  in respect of its initial  claim 
decision, or unreasonably  in terms of leaving the leaseholders with no alternative but to 
obtain professional representation. So, Im not persuaded Amtrust is responsible for the 
leaseholders decision to further instruct their surveyor.
Mr H says many of the claimed items  were  initially rejected by Amtrust, but these  were  later 
accepted after the leaseholders  surveyor successfully defended their claim. However,  Ive 
not seen anything to support what he says here. In the leaseholders  surveyors May 2016 
letter, and in an updated status report, he largely  agreed with the decisions Amtrust had 
reached. I accept he provided some observations on a few issues being claimed for, but 
apart from the drains  which Ill go on to address  its my understanding  none of his 
observations led to the declined issues being  accepted.
In respect of the blocked drains, Amtrust  explained that if the leaseholders wished  to dispute 
its decision, it required a CCTV  survey to confirm  the presence  of builders debris. It noted 
that the cost of the survey  wouldnt  be covered by the policy, but the costs of cleaning the 
drains would  be if builders debris  was confirmed. The leaseholders went on to arrange a 
CCTV survey  and this part of the claim was accepted. However, although this issue  was 
later accepted, Amtrusts  surveyor  had reported that the issue appeared to be related to 
normal maintenance, and Ive not seen anything that shows  the builders debris  in the 
drainage system was apparent before the CCTV survey. Therefore, I cant reasonably  
decide Amtrusts initial decision was unfair.
So, given my observations, Im not persuaded Amtrust is responsible  for the surveyors  fees 
incurred between the second  and third invoices. In my view, these were incurred due to the 
leaseholders decision to be professionally  represented, rather than in response to anything  
Amtrust did wrong.
Ref: DRN51380455- Invoice four:
Invoice four is dated 12 September  2016. The fees relate to meeting Mr H, a site inspection, 
interpreting the drain  survey and dealing with all queries arising from it. In my opinion, this 
invoice can reasonably be considered to fall under investigating and preparing the claim  
and is again due to the leaseholders decision to be professionally  represented. The fees 
dont relate  to the remedial works,  and I havent seen anything to show  the leaseholders 
couldnt have  sent the drains survey  directly to Amtrust for its consideration, rather  than 
instructing their surveyor to review  the matter  first.
- Invoice five, six, and seven:
Invoice five, six, and seven cover 1 November 2016 to 31 March 2017. The descriptions on 
the invoices note the fees relate to site inspections, professional  support,  meeting with 
Amtrust, meeting with the leaseholders,  and correspondence.
Based on the timeline Ive seen, Im persuaded these invoices relate more to the remedial 
works than preparing the claim. However, I would still need to be persuaded the fees were 
necessarily and reasonably incurred, and overall, thats not the case.
In May 2016, the leaseholders  surveyor had informed  Amtrust that the leaseholders wanted  
him to deal with the repairs, and he noted  his fees in relation to remedial work were covered 
by the policy.  Amtrust  says, in July 2016, the surveyor  also advised that if Amtrust wanted to 
retain its own surveyor the leaseholders didnt have any objections, but the leaseholders still 
wished to retain his services for monitoring and approval  with his fees being covered by 
the policy. Amtrust says,  in response, it informed the leaseholders that their fees would 
remain their own responsibility.
Amtrust was managing  the claim, and it was already paying  for the appropriate  specialists to 
oversee the remedial works. Therefore, I cant reasonably decide it was also necessary for 
the leaseholders to instruct a surveyor. I do understand the leaseholders  decision  to have 
an expert acting on their behalf given the complexity  of the issues  and the implications for 
them. However, that doesnt  mean  I can fairly decide Amtrust should be liable for those 
costs. I havent seen anything that persuades me Amtrust unreasonably caused the 
leaseholders to incur  their own surveyor fees by the actions it took.
I accept the leaseholders surveyor attended  the site and met with Amtrust on occasions at 
Amtrusts request. But by that stage, the surveyor was representing the leaseholders and 
managing aspects of the claim on their behalf,  so on balance, Im not persuaded those 
requests were unreasonable, or Amtrust  should  cover the associated fees. 
I also accept the leaseholders surveyor influenced the direction of the remedial works given 
Amtrust was engaging  with him. But that doesnt lead me to the conclusion Amtrust  wouldnt 
have reached fair decisions, or undertaken  the appropriate repairs, without his input. Mr H 
says only some of the windows would have been  replaced had the leaseholders surveyor 
not repeatedly  intervened. However,  I havent seen anything that supports what he says 
here, or anything that persuades me Amtrusts approach to the remedial works was 
unreasonable.
Ref: DRN51380456In conclusion, I appreciate  Mr H feels strongly that the leaseholders  surveyor  was integral to 
ensuring the right works were undertaken, but on balance, Im more  persuaded the initial 
fees were incurred to investigate  and prepare the claim, and the later fees due to their 
decision to be professionally represented.  The policy  doesnt  cover these costs, and 
therefore, I cant reasonably decide  Amtrust  should be responsible  for them.
report costs
Mr H has raised  costs  for three reports: a December 2014 window installation  report from the 
manufacturer, an August 2016  atrium  flat roof inspection, and a September  2016 drains 
survey.
Based on the information presented, its not clear who initiated the window installation report. 
Mr H says Amtrust  referred the leaseholders to the manufacturer in the first instance and 
insisted on a report. However, Ive seen the leaseholders surveyor  was already making 
enquiries with the manufacturer for it to attend  at the time the claim was made. But in any 
event, even if Amtrust had insisted  on the installation report, I dont consider this to be 
unreasonable. I say this because, its my understanding the developer had argued  the 
installation was satisfactory and approved. As such, I consider it likely the report  was 
required for the leaseholders to show there were defects covered by their policies.  
In terms of the atrium  roof report, its also not clear  why this report was undertaken. I havent  
seen that water ingress via the atrium  roof was included  in the original  claim  there isnt any 
mention of it in the 2013 or 2015  surveys, or in the correspondence we have been given. But 
regardless, the onus was on the leaseholders to show there was a defect covered by their 
policies, rather than a maintenance  related issue or damage caused by an episode of bad 
weather. Ive not been shown anything that leads me to conclude the cause of the water 
ingress was apparent without a report.  Similarly, I havent seen anything that shows the 
builders debris in the drainage system was apparent  before  the CCTV survey.  
As explained above, the onus is on the policyholder to show there  are defects covered by 
their policy.  I havent been shown anything  that persuades me it was evident the issues  in 
these three  areas were covered by the policies  prior to the reports, and that they were an 
unnecessary expense unreasonably put upon the leaseholders. Having considered  the 
information provided to us, on balance, Im not persuaded  that it was unreasonable for 
Amtrust to have requested these reports,  or that it should be responsible for costs 
associated with investigating the claim.
I appreciate it may feel somewhat unfair to the leaseholders that its cost them to show  there  
were defects, given the repairs  are covered  by their policies. But Amtrust isnt at fault for 
those defects either, so I cant  fairly decide it should cover the costs the leaseholders 
incurred to prove their claim, given such costs are excluded by the policy terms. 
delays
The leaseholders made their claim in September 2014; and I understand the main  repairs  
were complete by March  2018, with some  external works being  finished a few months  later 
once a period  of bad weather had passed.
Ref: DRN51380457I can understand the leaseholders frustration that Amtrust didnt appoint its own surveyor  to 
until July 2015.  But overall, Im not persuaded Amtrust did anything wrong here.  As noted in 
the background section of this decision,  Amtrust  only becomes responsible for defects that 
are identified during  the first two years of cover if certain conditions  are met. Amtrust  says, 
until June 2015,  its dispute resolution service was liaising with the developer  and it was 
showing a willingness to assist. But once  the developer wasnt  prepared to do anything 
further, Amtrust took responsibility for the claim and appointed a surveyor.
Amtrusts surveyor  visited the site in August  2015. However, the report wasnt finalised  until 
December 2015.  Amtrust  has explained  it had some difficulties with the formatting of the 
report, but Im not persuaded that reasonably  explains a four-month delay.
There was then four months between Amtrusts claim  decision in February 2016, and when it 
finalised the schedule  of works  in June 2016.  However, Ive seen the leaseholders surveyor 
didnt respond  to the claim decision until May 2016, so overall,  Im not persuaded I can fairly 
decide Amtrust is responsible for the delay during this period. 
Amtrust says, upon finalising the schedule in June 2016, the works were  put out to tender; 
but due to a busy  market  the tender report wasnt received until August 2016. I accept its 
explanation here.
Its my understanding that the repairs werent authorised until November 2016  about three 
months after the tender report was received. The works were relatively high value, and as 
such, I accept they were  likely subject  to an authorisation  process.  However, Ive not seen 
anything that persuades  me three months  was a reasonable period of time.
I understand a contractor  was then appointed and works began in February 2017. The main 
works were completed 12 months later. I acknowledge this is a significant period  of time for 
repairs to be ongoing, however, the works and costs involved were  also significant.  Equally, 
the window manufacturer had to be involved; the work evolved to replacing all the windows; 
and the contractor removing the windows had to be changed. I also understand the repair  
programme was delayed  by the window  manufacturers poor response. Overall, I havent  
seen anything that leads me to conclude 12 months was unreasonable. 
That said,  in June 2017, Amtrust  took a month to authorise the additional windows. Ive seen 
Mr H was chasing during  this period  and he was concerned further delays would be caused  
to the schedule. On the one hand, the additional  works  more  than doubled the total cost of 
the repairs, which were  already relatively high value.  As such, a month to go through the 
authorisation process is somewhat understandable  in my opinion. But on the other hand, 
Amtrust had anticipated that all the windows would need replacing earlier  on during the 
works. Therefore, I can understand  Mr Hs frustration that the extra  repairs hadnt been 
authorised earlier.
Amtrust has told us it doesnt consider it acted slowly, and it says the costs support the claim 
was complex. However, it also accepts  there  were  several delays which  were  solely  due to 
its processes. Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded there were some  delays 
during the claim  for which a reasonable explanation hasnt been provided. Our investigator 
recommended each of the six leaseholders be compensated £250 for the delays and the 
inconvenience caused. Based on everything  Ive seen, overall,  I consider this to be a fair 
acknowledgment of the impact the delays  likely  had on them.
Ref: DRN51380458Amtrust acknowledged receipt of my provisional  decision, but it didnt add anything  further. 
Mr H made  further points about the period Im considering,  and about  what had happened 
after. 
Ill outline the points Mr H made is respect of the complaint Im considering:
-The leaseholders remain of the view that had they not commissioned their own surveyor 
far fewer defects would  have been  remedied;  and a substantial portion of the surveyors 
work reduced Amtrusts costs and was of material benefit to it. However,  they 
acknowledged they had no further documentation to support their position.
-It was almost two and half years from when  the claim  was registered before remedial 
action began  this is excessive by any standard, but particularly as the principal 
problems were  with water ingress.  
-The leaseholders are deeply sceptical about  the developer showing willingness to assist 
during the first nine months of the claim given  it was adamant in 2014  it couldnt do any 
more. It also took a formal  complaint 15 months  after registering the claim for any 
material progress to be made.
-Once the remedial work started  in February  2017 the initial estimate for completion was 
six months, but it took 15 months.  There were  many  periods  of inaction or pedestrian 
progress, and the leaseholders had to make  a second formal complaint to try to 
expedite matters.
-The windows werent being replaced;  they were merely being removed and reinstalled. 
It seems  Amtrust has persuaded this service  that the repair programme was complex, 
which has led me to conclude 15 months  was reasonable. The repair  programme was 
characterised far more by poor management of the contractor, and poor planning and 
authorisation delays,  than it was by any inherent complexity of the work.
-The leaseholders have suffered stress and anxiety over a very long period, and most of 
this has been  entirely  unnecessary.  Scaffolding has been erected for months at a time,  
obstructing the main views, without works happening  and the apartments  have  been  
unsaleable whilst  the claim has been  ongoing,  which is now into its sixth year. Mr H 
asked me to reconsider the compensation for the impact of the delays.
For completeness, Ill also summarise the points Mr H made  about  the ongoing issues  that 
have occurred after the complaint was brought to us:
-After the external works were  completed in April 2018, a snagging list was provided to 
Amtrust. However, no action has been taken.
-In October 2018, following a storm, it became  apparent  that the water ingress above the 
windows in two apartments hadnt been  resolved.  In November 2018, Amtrust inspected  
and it concluded  the balconies above those windows were the likely problem. Mr H says 
the balconies  were identified as a problem early during the repair  programme, and those 
on the top floor were  repaired. However,  he says Amtrust  decided not to investigate  the 
other balconies, preferring to see if the other remedial work  resolved the water  ingress  
issues. He says Amtrusts misjudgement has prolonged  the repair process,  and the 
water ingress into one apartment  is now significantly worse.
Ref: DRN51380459-A new problem also appeared with water ingress  under two balcony doors. Amtrusts 
November 2018 inspection identified this was due to the door seals  being damaged 
during the repairs.  Despite constant  chasing by the leaseholders, the seals werent 
replaced for a further six months.
-Significant delays  occurred after the inspection  in November 2018, with no action being 
taken. After three months  the leaseholders raised another  complaint which  led to 
Amtrust approving work on four of the remaining nine balconies.
-Ten months after the inspection scaffolding was erected and work finally  started on two 
balconies, but the work stopped after three weeks with the balconies stripped back  and 
open to the weather. This resulted in more water ingress.  Amtrust  cited  bad weather as 
the reason for the delay  and no work took place for four months,  until February  2020.
-Work  to seal the balconies was completed  in March 2020, but it hasnt been possible to 
reinstate them because the glass panels  required a six-week lead time and werent 
ordered in advance of them being needed. Everything is now shut down  due to the 
coronavirus restrictions. The scaffolding,  which  is covering most  of the front of the 
building, has remained in place  throughout.  
-Amtrust is unwilling  to rectify  the remaining five balconies as it claims it has no liability 
unless the defects are demonstrably causing  damage. The leaseholders believe that 
water damage is being caused by three of the balconies,  and they are waiting for the 
results of a recent inspection by Amtrust. They  are also of the opinion  that if known 
construction defects  exist,  Amtrust  should be liable  to rectify the issues  even if no 
consequential damage is currently evident.
-In addition, some slight water ingress  above a window in one apartment  remained after 
the repair programme  was complete. In September 2019, Amtrust inspected the issue,  
but its conclusions  are unknown. Since then, the leak has got significantly worse, and 
previously repaired wooden flooring has been damaged. In March  2020, Amtrust 
advised it would re-inspect and report back, but a report hasnt been received.
-The situation continues to be traumatic for the leaseholders  with one apartment 
rendered almost  unusable due to the volume of water ingress.
-The leaseholders ask this service  to instruct Amtrust to agree a plan of action with them 
and a timetable  for completing the outstanding issues  and for it to finalise its decision 
on the remaining  five balconies. They also ask that we set a deadline by when  these 
actions must be completed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the ongoing  issues have caused,  and are still causing, the leaseholders much 
upset and inconvenience. However, my considerations  here are limited to the issues they 
first brought to us. The complaint brought to us was about their surveyors  fees and other 
report costs, and the claim delays up to when the repair  programme was completed in      
April 2018.
Ref: DRN513804510It wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider the further issues  Mr H has raised in response  
to my provisional decision.  Amtrust  needs to be given the opportunity  to consider those 
points first, and the opportunity to present its position to our service.
This means  I havent  considered:
-The snagging list thats been  outstanding since April 2018 and the delays to completing  
that work; the water ingress  above an apartment  window  thats  been  ongoing  since the 
repairs were completed and the delays since Amtrust inspected  in September 2019; or 
the damage caused during the repair programme  to the balcony door seals and the 
delays to replacing the seals  once  the issue was identified.
-Amtrusts initial decision to not investigate all the balconies;  Amtrusts later decision to 
address only four of the nine remaining balconies; or the delay  to Amtrusts further 
decision about three of the five declined balconies.
-The ten months delay after Amtrusts November 2018 inspection; the four months delay 
during the remedial  works to the four balconies which Amtrust said was due to bad 
weather; or the delay to ordering  the glass panels.
-The impact of the above issues  on the leaseholders; or the timetable moving forward  for 
completing the outstanding items.
I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr H and the other leaseholders, and Im sorry I cant  
be more helpful  at this stage. However,  if they havent already  done so, they should set out 
the above complaint points to Amtrust and ask for its final response. If they remain unhappy 
with Amtrusts response, or if eight weeks pass without a response, they can then ask us to 
consider those issues under a separate case. If some of those points have  previously been  
complained about to Amtrust and/or a final response  has been received, Mr H can let our 
investigator know and she will guide him on the next steps. 
Ill turn now to the points Mr H made  in response to my provisional decision,  that relate to the 
complaint I am considering. 
No further information has been provided  in respect  of the surveyors fees or the other  report  
costs. So, my view about these costs remains unchanged. Mr H has provided some further 
commentary about the delays, which I have considered. However,  to be clear,  Im only 
considering the period between when the claim was registered and when the repair  
programme was completed in April 2018.
I acknowledge that two and half years is a relatively significant period between  a claim being 
made and the repairs starting. However,  Im not persuaded Amtrust can reasonably be held 
responsible for this entire  period. As outlined in my provisional decision, I consider there to 
have been two periods before the works started, totalling seven months,  which cant be 
sufficiently explained.  So, in my view, its reasonable to conclude  there  were  five to six 
months of delay that ought reasonably to have been avoided.
Ref: DRN513804511The leaseholders doubt that Amtrust was liaising with the developer  for the first nine months 
of the claim. I havent seen the exchanges between Amtrusts dispute resolution service and 
the developer.  However, I have seen an annotated December 2014  status  report  that shows 
discussions were taking  place. The annotations  show  the developer was prepared  to rectify 
some of the outstanding issues, whilst investigations were ongoing with some of the others. 
Ive also seen commentary in Amtrusts internal emails that supports correspondence  was 
ongoing between  the parties  until June 2015,  when  the developer concluded  it couldnt  do 
anything more. So, given  Amtrust only became responsible for the defects  once certain 
criteria had been met, and in view of the information  I have seen, on balance, Im not 
persuaded I can reasonably decide  Amtrust ought to have taken responsibility for 
considering the defects  sooner.
I accept that the length of the repair programme far exceeded the initial  estimate given to the 
leaseholders. I also acknowledge Mr Hs view of the planning and management of the works. 
However, I havent seen  anything  that shows the works, once underway,  were unreasonably 
delayed by Amtrust for significant periods. As I noted in my provisional decision,  Ive seen 
the works  evolved  during  the repair programme and required input from other parties. 
Given the issues at the leaseholders properties, I dont doubt they suffered inconvenience 
and upset up to April 2018. However, what Im considering here is the impact of the delays  
that, in my view, Amtrust can reasonably be held responsible for. Having considered  the 
submissions, I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude the award should be 
increased above £1,500  for the matters Ive upheld.    
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. My final decision  is Amtrust Europe  Limited should compensate Mr and Mrs H £250. It 
follows that the same applies  to the other five leaseholders. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H, and 
the other leaseholders with the same complaint, to accept or reject  my decision before              
19 June 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5138045