K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint arises  from a claim he made  under his Tech  Pack gadget insurance 
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
Assurant uses agents to handle claims on its behalf. Any reference to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including anything said or done  by those agents on its behalf.
background
On 8 October 2018, Mr P made a claim under the policy for the theft of a digital camera this 
claim was declined on 25 October 2018.  I have dealt with a complaint about  the refusal of 
that claim separately. Mr P says he bought a new camera that same day and made a claim 
for its loss on 30 October 2018. He said he lost it while outside. 
Assurant declined the second  claim as well. It is the refusal of this claim that is the subject of 
this decision. Assurant asked Mr P to provide a receipt or other proof  of purchase for the 
camera. Mr P provided an invoice dated 25 October  2018. Assurant said the invoice was 
from a company whose  address is given as being next door to Mr P. The company has the  
same address but a different name  as the invoice provided in support of Mr Ps first claim. 
Assurant also says there are no contact  telephone  or email contact details on the invoice, 
but Mr Ps wife is listed as company director. Assurant has doubts about the validity  of the 
invoice and says it cant verify that Mr P purchased the camera claimed for. 
Assurant says Mr P has not proven his claim. It also says that its call-handler  had to 
terminate a telephone call with Mr P, as he was abusive and offensive. It says this has 
happened repeatedly this and previous  claims.  It is no longer accepting phone  calls from 
him.
Assurant also stated  that it considers the complaint to be vexatious and should therefore be 
dismissed without consideration.
Mr P is unhappy that Assurant has not met his claim; that it terminated a call with him on 6 
November 2018  and the time taken to deal with his claim. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not think  the complaint should be 
dismissed. Having considered the complaint, the investigator did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator thought that Assurant had not acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim,  given  that Mr P had not been  able to provide verifiable proof of purchase 
for the camera; and that it had dealt with the matter reasonably time. 
Mr P does not accept  the investigators  assessment and so the matter  has been referred to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.3.4 provides  me with the power  to dismiss a complaint without consideration of the 
merits, if I consider the complaint to be frivolous  and vexatious. Assurant argues that this is 
the case here, in essence because it is almost identical to the previous  claim and complaint 
Ref: DRN50246952and has no prospect of being successful, given Mr P has provided such  similar evidence  in 
support of this claim as his last. Even if a complaint has little or no chance of succeeding or 
even if it is fraudulent, it does not necessarily render it frivolous and vexatious.  I am not 
satisfied that Assurant has established that this complaint should be dismissed  without 
consideration of its merits. 
Mr Ps policy  provides, among other things, cover for the theft of his camera. In order  to 
make a successful insurance claim, it is for a policyholder to prove  their claim. That means 
that they have  to prove they owned  the items  claimed for and that an insured event 
occurred. In this case  therefore it means that not only would Assurant have to be satisfied 
that Mr Ps camera was lost in the way he said but also that the make and model of camera 
he is claiming for was owned by him. 
This is reflected in the policy terms set out below: 
 Proof of ownership  
We need to know  that the device, SIM card and accessories you are claiming  for are yours.
Therefore you may need to provide some form of proof of ownership. You may need  to be 
able to tell us the make and model  of your device.  We may ask to see something that tells us 
that the items you are claiming for belong to you.
Proof of ownership  could  include  a till receipt  or documentation from your airtime provider. If 
you dont have any proof of ownership we may decline your claim.
I do not therefore consider it unreasonable for Assurant to ask Mr P to provide proof of 
purchase, or some other proof that he owned the camera claimed for. 
Mr P provided an invoice from a business from an address next door to Mr P. Apart from the 
name of the business and the address,  theres  no other name  and no telephone number or 
email address, although Companies House shows that Mr Ps wife is the director of the 
company. In addition, the invoice says the supplier of the phone is operating from the same  
address  and the invoice is in exactly the same format  as the seller of the camera that 
was the subject of Mr Ps previous claim, but it is a different company name.  The invoice 
also suggests that the camera had not been  paid for as it said kindly make a payment to  
Bank. 
Assurant said it was therefore unable to verify that the receipt is genuine proof of purchase.  I 
dont consider this is unreasonable given the issues raised. 
It took Assurant less than a week to deal with Mr Ps claim and inform him that it would not 
be meeting the claim and the reasons why. I do not consider this was unreasonable  in any 
circumstances, but in particular given the further  investigations it considered were required. 
Assurants file has a note of several telephone  calls with Mr P, which  record that he was 
repeatedly aggressive,  offensive and used inappropriate, sexually explicit language.  I have  
also seen a number  of similarly inappropriate email  communications.  I have  no reason to 
doubt Assurants  records about the phone calls. I do not consider it unreasonable  for a call-
handler to terminate a call with a customer  that talks to them  in such a way. Assurant has a 
duty to protect  its employees and so I also do not consider it unreasonable  for it to decide to 
refuse future  telephone contact, in such circumstances. 
Ref: DRN50246953my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5024695