K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley)  mis-sold  him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr C arranged a mortgage  with a representative of Bradford & Bingley in 1990.  During  the 
application he was also sold a MPPI  policy that covered him against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. This was all arranged in a meeting with the representative. The policy and 
mortgage ended in 1996. 
Mr C says he did not know  the policy had been  added and didnt claim for unemployment 
benefit a year later which proves this. He says the costs were not displayed clearly  in the 
application. He also is unhappy that he couldnt claim benefit for the first three months.  He 
thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr C does not agree with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide provisionally what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account 
in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr C during the meeting with a 
representative in 1990. Ive looked at what he has said about  how the policy was sold  
including that the MPPI policy was added without him knowing  about it. But this sale took 
place many years ago and memories  do fade over time. I think  with this in mind  and after 
considering the documentation that Bradford & Bingley has been  able to provide 
including a copy of the application form for the sale, I am persuaded that he was given 
an option to have MPPI in the meeting and informed of its details.  
I can see on the application form for his mortgage in 1990  that there were options  listed  
regarding the type of cover available, suggesting to me that a conversation was likely  
had regarding what type of cover he would  like, and he chose one of the options  and 
signed the form agreeing to have the MPPI  policy to protect  his repayments. 
So, it looks to me that Bradford & Bingley recommended the MPPI to Mr C, and because 
of this, it had a responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable  for him. And it looks like it 
was suitable based  on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances at the time.
I say this because  Mr C did not have much  in the way of sick pay or savings (Up to 3 
months savings) and so the cover  provided would have been useful in a time of need. I 
could also not find any other  reason that would make the policy  unsuitable for him such 
as a restrictive or limiting  term.
Ref: DRN57092262Bradford & Bingley  has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI 
that Mr C took out. But I cant  be sure if it clearly disclosed the costs of the policy to him 
in the meeting. That said, even if it did, I dont think it would have affected Mr Cs 
decision to take the policy with his mortgage  for the same  reason that I think  the policy  
was suitable.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr C wouldve been  affected  by any of these. 
Mr C says he is unhappy that he couldnt claim benefit for the first 90 days  that the policy 
would have been in place.  This is because Mr C says he had been  employed for 3 months at 
the date of sale and there  was a term within the policy that stated that to claim benefit  you 
would need to be in continuous employment  for 6 months. I agree with the adjudicator  that 
this wouldnt have put Mr C off from taking the policy if he had been given clear information 
about this at the time. I say this because Mr C would have  only had 90 days  to wait before 
he could claim benefit if needed  and would  have found value in having the cover for the 
reasons I have already given.
Finally, Mr C says he was made  unemployed in 1991 but didnt claim benefit proving that he 
was unaware of the policy and I have already concluded that he was more  likely given an 
option to have the policy in 1990.  But Mr C may wish to approach the insurer again to see if 
it would  be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective claim. If he does pursue a 
retrospective claim and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he should  first 
express those concerns  to the insurer, and if unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, 
they may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this service as a 
separate matter.   
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I do not uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and so Bradford & 
Bingley Plc does  not have  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5709226