K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying  Silver  
packaged bank  account.
Mrs L says that she went into a Lloyds branch to pick up her credit card and was told she 
had to fill in more forms. Mrs L says that it wasnt made clear  to her what she was agreeing  
to.
background
Mr Ls account was opened as a fee-paying  Select account in March 2006,  then downgraded 
to a fee-free account  in April 2006.  This was then upgraded to a fee-paying  Silver  account in 
September 2007.
Lloyds said that our service was unable to consider the complaint about the sale of the 
Select account and didnt  think  that it had mis-sold the Silver account. Our adjudicators 
agreed that Mrs L had complained too late about the Select  account,  and they didnt think  
that the Silver  account  had been mis-sold either.
Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion that the Silver account  had not been  mis-sold, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
This decision will only address whether the Silver account was mis-sold or not.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into 
consideration when looking into this complaint.
Mrs L has said that she was not aware that fee-free  accounts were available.  But as Mrs L 
had one at the time that her account  changed to a Silver account, I think  that she was aware 
fee-free accounts  were available, when the Silver account was sold to her.
Mrs L says that she cannot remember agreeing to a packaged  account. But shes also said 
that she went into branch  to receive  a credit  card, but was required to sign some further 
documents. Lloyds  has provided evidence to show that Mrs Ls account was upgraded on 4 
September 2007, yet the customer  notes  provided  by Lloyds show  that Mrs L took her credit 
card on 18 September  2007. 
So the available evidence  suggests  that Mrs L already held the account for a number of days  
before she went into branch about her credit  card. So taking everything into account,  I think 
its more likely that Mrs L agreed to upgrade to the Silver account before she took out her 
credit card. And that when  she did so, she knew that the silver account was optional and that 
she could continue with a fee-free account  if she didnt want it.
Based on what I know about Lloydss sales processes,  I think the Silver account was likely  to 
have been recommended  to Mrs L. This means that Lloyds  had to make sure the account  
was right for Mrs L.
Ref: DRN50244362At the time the account cost £7.95  per month and provided European travel insurance, 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and card protection cover, amongst other 
benefits. Mrs L has said that she occasionally travelled within Europe and there  is evidence  
that she travelled  to Norway not long after agreeing  to upgrade her account. So I think  that 
Mrs L had a need for travel insurance. And as the Silver account was the cheapest  account 
Lloyds offered that provided travel insurance,  I think that Lloydss recommendation was 
reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mrs L may not have wanted  or needed all of the other  Silver account  
benefits. But as it was sold as a package, she was unable to pick and choose  what it came 
with. So I dont think it was inappropriate of Lloyds to have recommended  the account  to 
Mrs L, even if she didnt  need every benefit it came with.
As well as making sure the account  was right for her, Lloyds also had to give Mrs L 
important information  about the account.  Mrs L says that Lloyds didnt make  it clear what  
benefits the account came with. But Mrs L has also said that she doesnt  remember  Lloyds 
selling her the Silver account. So I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve mentioned  at 
least some  of the benefits  after all it wouldve  wanted to make it seem  as attractive as 
possible so that Mrs L agreed to the upgrade  but I accept that due to the passage of time 
Mrs L  may  now be unable to recall Lloyds  doing  so. 
I appreciate that Lloyds  may not have given Mrs L all of the important information about  the 
Silver account. But Ive not seen anything, and Mrs L hasnt said anything,  that makes  me 
think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account had she been given even more 
information about it. So, on balance, I dont think that the Silver account was mis-sold.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mrs L, but I hope I have been able to 
explain the reasons  why I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5024436