K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt inform  
her when she entered into a hire purchase  for a new car that it was part of the insurance 
scheme that provided  new for old should the car be written  off.
 
background 
In August  2018  Miss S decided to acquire a new car and visited a dealership. She chose a 
car and agreed  to enter  into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
While at the dealership  there was a discussion about GAP insurance. Miss S was told that to 
purchase this policy  she would need to pay a lump sum payment. Miss S didnt want to do 
that, so instead  looked  at car insurance  policies that provided new  for old (also known as 
new car replacement  cover). Miss S took out one these policies for the car. 
Unfortunately, a few months later, the car was written off and Miss S had to make a claim 
under the insurance policy. She expected to receive a like-for-like  replacement car, or the 
equivalent replacement  cost, but was informed by the insurer that VWFS wasnt  part of this 
replacement scheme. This meant that Miss S was offered the current  market  value of the car 
which left a shortfall against the amount borrowed under the hire purchase agreement  which  
she had to cover. 
Miss S complained to VWFS that it hadnt told her that this type of policy  wouldnt be suitable 
because it wasnt part of the scheme.  VWFS  didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. It said that its 
business policy did not offer a like for like replacement on Miss Ss contract. As it did not 
form part of the contractual options  it wasnt included in the terms and conditions  of the 
financial agreement.  
VWFS said that it had told all the insurance  companies that it did not offer the new for old 
and it was therefore the responsibility of the insurers to tell their customers  this. 
Miss S was unhappy  at VWFSs  response  and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend her complaint was upheld.  He said that he didnt think  VWFS had acted 
unfairly by not informing  Miss S that it wasnt part of the new for old scheme. 
Our adjudicator said that under section 56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 VWFS, as the 
creditor, could be held responsible for what had been said by the dealership. But here he 
didnt think the dealership  had made  any false statements  to Miss S. She hadnt  discussed 
the terms of any insurance policies with either  the dealership or VWFS. All that had been 
discussed was the GAP  insurance that could be taken out at the same time the hire 
purchase agreement  was entered in to. 
Ref: DRN53144232Our adjudicator said that as insurance  companies have their own key exclusions it wasnt 
reasonable to expect  VWFS to discuss the suitability of insurance policies with consumers. 
However, had Miss S asked about  this scheme, then VWFS  was obliged to provide a truthful 
answer.
Our adjudicator also said that it wasnt within this services remit to require businesses to 
change their policies  as we dont supervise, regulate  or penalise businesses.  We deal with 
complaints on a case by case  basis.
Miss S hasnt said whether she disagrees with the view of our adjudicator, but its considered  
appropriate that her complaint is reviewed by an ombudsman as she has also complained 
about the insurer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss S is strongly  of the view that the fact VWFS doesnt participate  in this new 
for old scheme should be included in its financial agreements so that others  arent misled 
about the suitability of this type of insurance policy. However, I dont think  its reasonable to 
place the onus on VWFS to discuss what insurance  policies are and arent  appropriate. This 
is because many insurance companies will have their own individual exclusions or conditions  
and it wouldnt be possible for VWFS to know how individual policies would be applied.
Ive seen that GAP  insurance was discussed and Miss S decided  not to take out this policy.  
She didnt  tell the dealership that she was going to take out a new for old insurance policy  
instead, so there was no misleading information  provided by the dealership about whether 
that was a viable alternative. 
Under the agreement  Miss S is obliged to have the car comprehensively insured and that is 
included in the terms and conditions. For the reasons given above I dont think  its 
reasonable to say that particular term doesnt  go far enough in setting out what type of cover 
is required.
As set out by our adjudicator it isnt in this services remit to require businesses  to change 
policies and so it isnt appropriate  for me to comment on VWFSs business decision not to  
participate in this scheme.
VWFS says it has told all insurers that it doesnt participate in the new for old scheme and so 
Im satisfied that it has done what its reasonably  required to do. Im not upholding Miss Ss 
complaint and I dont  think VWFS  has acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN53144233my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5314423