K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs H bought a policy  (policy 1) in 2002  at the same time as taking out a loan. She then 
refinanced the loan in 2004 and took out another PPI policy (policy 2). Although she says 
she was sold the policies during meetings, the evidence from the time of the sales suggests 
that she was sold the policies  on the telephone. So Ive considered this complaint on the 
basis that these  were telephone sales. 
Mrs H has also told Nationwide  during a call that her circumstances were  the same  at the 
time of both of the sales and I note that the terms and conditions  relating to the policies in 
2002 and 2004 were  broadly similar. So Ive considered  both of the sales together. If/where 
there is any difference, I will highlight this separately.
Policy 1s one-off  upfront  premium of £1312.25 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 84 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £79.32 with the PPI costing an additional £20.82  making the total 
monthly repayment £100.14.
Policy 2s one-off  upfront  premium of £826.31  was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 63 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £97.65 with the PPI costing an additional £15.52  making the total 
monthly repayment £113.17.
Each policy provided cover for Mrs H for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Hs monthly  loan repayment 
for up to the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs H was employed  as a checkout  operator. She has told us she was entitled 
to less than three months sick pay from her employer and had death in service benefit.  She 
hasnt mentioned entitlement to redundancy pay and didnt have  any other means  of 
repaying the loans  should  she be unable to work. Mrs H has said she didnt have any health 
problems at the time of the sales. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the first loan account closed in 2004 and 
the second loan account closed in 2005.  
Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. 
When I say policy, I am referring to both of the policies.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Hs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
Ref: DRN58809982handling PPI complaints  under DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mrs H about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs complaint
This sales took place  in 2002 and 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like 
this became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles 
for Businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
Ref: DRN58809983The credit agreements themselves concluded in 2004 and 2005. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Hs case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN58809984-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs H know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional.  
Given the length of time since the sales, Nationwide no longer have a copy of the call 
recording or a transcript of the sales. But it has provided us with copies of the loan 
agreements sent out following the sales. These  agreements make  it clear that PPI was 
optional and also set out the costs of the policies separately. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Mrs H was pressured into taking the policies.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs H knew the policies were  
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Both Nationwide and Mrs H agree that advice wasnt provided during the sales. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs H. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs H to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policies,  including  drawing to her attention  
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policies 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs H was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  her payments if Mrs H 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because the loan agreements set out what  Mrs H was covered  for under the 
policies. And I think Mrs H knew: the cost of the single premium  being added to the loan, the 
interest added  to the premium, the total cost and the monthly cost (as this information was, 
in my view,  sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mrs H signed.)  
Ref: DRN58809985But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs H agreed  to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs H has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mrs H? To what extent did Mrs H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold the policies to Mrs H. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs H 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mrs H says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs H had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policies against  the benefits offered and the potential consequences  if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN58809986As Ive found above, Mrs H chose to take these policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mrs H 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mrs H has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mrs H was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policies, such as the benefit/limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mrs H would get back  in return  in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Hs expectations about what  
the policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan 
payments) were significantly  different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs H knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies; or for which  she had 
received treatment or advice or had been  referred for investigations during the 12 
months before the start of the policies  which reoccurred within the 12 months of the 
start date;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs H be unable  to 
do any work;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policies werent  as good as she thought  and she might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H from taking out 
the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sales  shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs H 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN58809987If Mrs H had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do any work, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would do. And I accept it may have given 
her pause  for thought  although given Mrs Hs circumstances, on balance,  I still think  she 
would have been interested in taking out the cover.
The policies did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policies provided  
flexibility if Mrs H decided to repay the loan early  and cancel the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs H would still have taken out the policies. The policies were sufficiently close  to 
what its likely she thought  she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences  were  Mrs H made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs H would have  
taken out the policies  in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs H would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs H 
found herself in as result of the sales was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policies 
she was buying.
Ref: DRN58809988So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mrs H compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than 
she would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs H thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI.  Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mrs H, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2002 and 2004 when providing information  about  an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs H and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs H in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5880998