K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains, on behalf  of her later mother Mrs N, about the way National Westminster  
Bank Plc (NatWest) has used the compensation due for a mis-sold  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a loan.
background
Mrs N took out two loans  with NatWest in May 2004 and April 2005. With both loans she 
bought a PPI policy  and paid for them by adding  the cost of the premiums  on to the amount 
she borrowed.  
Sadly Mrs N died in 2008. In 2019  her daughter, Miss N, complained to NatWest,  through a 
third party, that the PPI had been mis-sold. NatWest upheld  the complaint that both policies 
were mis-sold and offered compensation for them both.
The compensation for the first loans PPI policy was paid direct  by cheque. But NatWest  
initially said it had used  some of the compensation  for the second loan to settle  the amount 
that had remained  outstanding on Mrs Ns death. So the compensation for the second  policy  
was reduced by the amount of the debt and a cheque for the balance  was paid.
Miss N acting on behalf of her late mother was unhappy with what  NatWest  said about a 
debt and brought the complaint to this service.  During the course  of the investigation 
NatWest said it had made some errors and there was not a debt on the loan account. In fact, 
a claim had been made on the PPI for the life cover on Mrs Ns death and that claim had 
cleared the amount outstanding for the loan. 
However the claim had paid more than the amount  due for the PPI compensation for the 
second loan. So NatWest said as the claim was more than the compensation, had this 
amount been  correctly  set off against  the compensation, there should have been  nothing 
paid out for this PPI. 
NatWest acknowledged  the errors it had made in the information  it had provided  and offered 
an additional  £100 for the distress and inconvenienced this may have caused. 
Our adjudicator said what NatWest had now said and offered was fair. Miss N still remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N took out two loans.  The first in May 2004  and the second in April 2005. With both 
loans she bought a PPI policy and the cost of the PPI premium was added  to the amount 
Mrs N borrowed  each time. The second  loan refinanced the first loan.
When the complaint  that the policies  were mis-sold was made,  NatWest  agreed both policies 
had been mis-sold and offered compensation.  For the first loan it offered and paid £500.06 
after tax. This was paid by cheque in 2019.
Ref: DRN53626082I have looked  at the calculations for this PPI policy and it is in line with what  I would expect 
including a refund  of all the costs paid plus compensatory  interest for being out of pocket.  No 
issues have been  raised about  the compensation for the PPI with this first loan and I think it 
is fair. So I shall not address this further in this decision.
Turning to the second loan I can see from the calculations provided,  that NatWest  has taken 
into account what was paid for the PPI whilst the policy was active and also the amount of 
the PPI premium carried into this loan when it refinanced the first loan. It has also added 
compensatory interest  for any time Mrs N was out of pocket. This is all in line with how I 
would expect NatWest  to calculate the compensation.  
The problem here is that NatWest did not pay the compensation in full. It said originally that 
when Mrs N died there  was an amount outstanding to clear the loan balance and it had set 
the compensation against that debt. Miss N said she had never been told there  was any 
outstanding debt when her mother had died so why was NatWest saying there was anything 
owing. She felt the compensation  should be paid in full.
In its original offer letter NatWest said the compensation due was £2,888.49. But when the 
debt was set off against this it left £927.64  which  it paid by cheque.
When the complaint  was brought to this service  NatWest  reinvestigated the matter  and said 
it had made  errors in its initial  response. There wasnt actually a debt on the loan account  as 
a successful claim had been  made on the policy for the life cover aspect. 
Records provided by NatWest that the account  remined open  whilst awaiting the outcome  of 
the claim.  This claim was paid and the account closed in September  2009. The total amount  
of the claim paid is shown  as £3,330.60,  which was to clear the outstanding debt at the time 
of the death of Mrs N. 
 
It is accepted it is fair that when a PPI policy has been found  to be mis-sold, if a claim has 
been paid out on the policy  whilst  it was active, the claim  amount can be deducted from the 
compensation due. In this case the claim amount exceeds the amount of compensation 
calculated.
The total premium  charged for the PPI was £1,717.00. In addition interest was also paid and 
the figures show this was £399.16. Therefore the total cost of the PPI to Mrs N would have 
been £2,116.16. Mrs N didnt repay the full amount  she borrowed,  as she died before the 
loan including  the PPI was fully repaid.  Also a small PPI rebate was applied on early 
settlement as the PPI was cancelled before the full term. There  would in addition  have been 
some compensatory interest due for the time Mrs N was out of pocket,  but this was only from 
the date of any repayments to the date the claim was paid, as at that point she wasnt out of 
pocket anymore. 
Clearly the total compensation is less than the amount of the claim. So nothing should have 
been paid in compensation, although  £927.64 actually was paid. It is only fair in all the 
circumstances that NatWest has said it would not seek repayment of this amount.
I think overall that as the claim exceeded the compensation amount due for the mis-sold  
PPI, what has been  paid in compensation for this mis-sale is fair.
NatWest has made several  errors during its dealing with this complaint which  has caused 
confusion. I think  it right that some compensation for this is fair. NatWest  has offered 
Ref: DRN53626083£100.00. Considering that some compensation was paid incorrectly, I think  this amount is 
fair.
I have also noted  the issues raised  by Miss N about payment she had to make to a claims 
management company  who took this complaint to NatWest. It was not essential  to be 
represented in the matter,  that was a choice made  by Miss N, and these charges are not the 
liability of NatWest. If there are any concerns about the agreement with and charges made  
by this third party  these would have to be taken up with them  as a separate  issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I think fair compensation has been paid by National 
Westminster Bank PLC and I am not directing  anything more needs to be paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362608