K820x#14complaint
Miss S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1998. 
Miss S says she took out the PPI when she applied for her card during a meeting at the 
bank. Theres only limited  information now available so I think  she may well be right about 
that. Lloyds couldnt confirm how or exactly when PPI was sold to Miss S.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  
Miss S mainly  said that Lloyds categorically  told her that she was only eligible for a credit  
card if she took out PPI and this wasnt optional. She also told us that she wouldnt have 
needed PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain  why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Miss S being able to remember  everything as it happened  so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what Lloyds said to Miss S when  she took out PPI. And what  she says about 
the way she was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her 
complaint.
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application it was using in 1999. But I dont 
know if Miss S wouldve filled in a form like this when she took out the PPI  because it isnt 
clear exactly  how or when this happened. So Im not relying on this. 
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Based on what we know about  the way Lloyds usually sold PPI around this time, I think its 
likely that however the sale took place, Miss S wouldve had to say if she wanted PPI  it 
wasnt automatically added onto a credit  card account. And it looks  to me as if Miss S 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  So, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Miss S decided  she wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added PPI 
to her account at her request,  even if understandably she no longer recalls  that. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Miss S it would look at her complaint as if it had advised her 
personally to have the PPI. This means  it not only had to give her important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Miss S.
Ref: DRN50063402She had some sick pay entitlement through work  she mentioned shed have got 6 months 
full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay from her employer.  But the policy  wouldve paid 
more than her minimum credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Miss S mightve also had some  
additional costs  if she was too unwell  to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve 
been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also protected Miss Ss credit  card repayments if she 
lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Having PPI is more  dependable than relying on other people  to help out in the event of 
money problems. Looking at all the information  Miss S has provided about  her 
circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable  for her.  
Looking at the likely policy terms, I think Miss S was eligible for the cover. And it doesnt  look 
as if Miss S was affected by any of the main policy limitations or exclusions that mightve 
made it difficult for her to make a successful  claim.  
Some of the information Lloyds gave  Miss S about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would  
cost, or what it might  pay out if Miss S made  a claim. But it seems  to have been affordable 
for her. And Miss S couldve cancelled the policy at any time without further cost if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely 
Miss S wouldve made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On 
balance, I think shed  still have taken out the policy. This means  Miss S hasnt lost out as a 
result of anything that Lloyds may have done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put 
things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5006340