K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Cumberland Building Society  (CBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £11.16 a month, but 
it was free for the first six months. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a workshop engineer. He has told us he was entitled to 
at least six months full sick pay, a death  in service payment and redundancy pay. Mr M has 
said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also told us they each had £7500 in accessible savings  at the time of the 
sale. But the mortgage application supplied details  their savings  as being £750 in total.  The 
adjudicator did contact Mr and Mrs Ms representatives to obtain clarification on this 
discrepancy but nothing further has been provided.
Mrs M wasnt covered by the policy and from what we have been  told she wasnt  working at 
the time of taking  the policy.  
CBS has told us that the mortgage account closed in 2001. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  believe  there to be no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN55305202The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to respond to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN55305203The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN55305204-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs M, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are options to tick to accept  or 
decline to take out the cover for both Mr and Mrs M. The yes box has been ticked for 
Mr M and the no box has been ticked for Mrs M. They have  also signed the overall 
application which suggests they agreed  with everything that had been entered.  If they 
didnt want to take out the cover for Mr M there was the option to tick the no box .
Ive also seen that Mr M completed and signed  a separate PPI application form. This 
detailed information  such as the monthly benefit  and the level of cover chosen, along  
with recording responses to some questions about his employment  and health. As 
before, if Mr and Mrs M didnt want the cover, they could have left the form blank.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did CBS provide advice?
Mr and Mrs M couldnt recall if they received advice. CBS says it did provide advice during  
this sale. Looking at what CBS says happened when it sold Mr and Mrs M the PPI, I think 
that it did provide  advice.
This means  CBS had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Looking at the PPI application form which was completed, it would suggest CBS took some  
steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation  for Mr and Mrs M. On 
the form it asks some  information  about Mr Ms employment and if he had any medical 
conditions. The adviser would have had some  limited information about  Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances from the mortgage application, but there is no specific  evidence  to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs M had a need  for the policy   
by asking questions  about their wider  circumstances such as existing means. So I dont  think  
it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded CBS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded CBS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN55305205While Im not persuaded CBS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  Mr M was the only wage earner and it 
seems likely their finances would be put under  strain if he were not working  even 
allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits  he was entitled to. The policy  
would have helped  Mr and Mrs M manage  the consequences were  Mr M unable  to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for them  to claim.  
-Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr M has told us about a medical 
condition he suffered from before the sale. CBS did ask Mr M to confirm  he hadnt  
suffered, or received  medical treatment  for any medical condition  in the past year.  
And Mr M confirmed he hadnt. While I dont think this question went  far enough to 
establish that Mr M wouldnt be affected by the exclusion  for pre-existing medical  
conditions, it does  suggest Mr M didnt consider his condition  to be serious  enough to 
mention. We did ask Mr M for more information about his condition but nothing more  
has been provided. But CBS has drawn our attention to a previous complaint we 
looked at for Mr M where he told us his condition was controlled and he hadnt lost 
any extensive time from work because of his condition. Talking  all of this into 
account, I dont  think  Mr Ms medical condition  meant that the policy wasnt  suitable  
for him. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  health  or back  
problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any other  
work condition, the requirement  that Mr M be disabled or unemployed for 60 days  
before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr Ms circumstances,  including his employers sickness  and redundancy 
provisions, along with his savings (which he might expect to provide  an 
income during  the policys 60-day qualification period) and the limits to those 
provisions, which mean the policy could play an important role after those 
provisions were  exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs M be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  CBS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what CBS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN55305206the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment), the benefit and the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because the mortgage application 
described the insurance as providing cover  In the event of sickness, redundancy or 
disability and both this document  and the separate PPI application included  information 
about the monthly benefit required  including choosing the excess period of 60 days and a 
payment period of 12 months.  And in terms of the cost, I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of how much the premium might  be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost, or about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded CBS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded CBS gave Mr and Mrs M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told them  about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to Mr and Mrs M. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN55305207what effect did CBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy, had CBS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded CBS took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if CBS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when CBS advised  them  that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr M was unable  to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs M were given about the benefit 
was clear and I think they would have known they would have to wait for 60 days  to make  a 
claim and that a successful claim would  be paid for up to 12 months.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the actual cost and limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear CBS told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs M would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for two years, so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with CBS at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN55305208Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
which Mr M knew of, or should  reasonably have known of, on the start date or for 
which he had received treatment or advice for during the 12 months before the start 
date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job or any other  work for which he was reasonably qualified;
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Mr M has told us about a medical condition he had when the PPI was taken out. Its likely 
that the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he needed time off work because  of this 
condition. Ive thought about  this but I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put him off agreeing to it. As Ive already explained,  it seems  Mr M didnt 
consider this condition to be of a serious nature  and therefore I think its unlikely that Mr M 
would have thought he would be off work  (for longer than the 60 days required by the policy) 
for this condition and need to make a claim as a result.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known Mr M could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job and any other work which, in the insurers view, he was reasonably  qualified  for, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I accept it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, on 
balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
Ref: DRN55305209unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think CBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of CBSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN553052010Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5530520