K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about his let property  insurer Legal & General Insurance  Limited 
because after several months of dealing with his water leak claim it declined it.
background
Mr N called L&G after finding a hot water pipe had disconnected in the loft and caused 
significant damage to his property. Mr N lets the property out but at the time of the leak he 
was renovating it between tenants.  When he called L&G he told it as much. L&G referred  to 
underwriters but progressed with the claim.  A few months later before repairs began  L&G 
told Mr N it was declining the claim because the property had been unoccupied when the 
leak occurred. 
When Mr N complained, L&G said it had made  a mistake at the outset  the claim should 
have been declined then. But it felt its error hadnt prejudiced  Mr N at all so it wasnt 
prepared to make any payment to him in respect  of the claim.  It did offer £450 compensation 
for the upset it accepted its error had caused. Mr N complained to us.
Our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld.  He thought  L&G had acted  unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining the claim when it had, given the action it had taken prior to that 
point. He said it should reimburse Mr Ns cost for repair  as well as consider what  rent hed 
lost. He said a further £300 compensation should be paid.
L&G said it had merely acted in line with the contract, albeit in a delayed fashion. It didnt 
accept that its actions had meant it had waived its right to rely on the unoccupancy as a bar 
to the claim. The complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr N initially  called  L&G he was told that the matter was being referred to the 
underwriting team due to the unoccupancy but that this was just a formality. Mr N then spoke 
to the underwriting team and they authorised  the claim. Mr N spoke to a claims handler  to 
progress the matter, they spoke to the underwriting team who again authorised the claim to 
proceed. The claims handler then told Mr N that the claim  could progress  and that the 
unoccupancy wasnt a bar to cover.  
The claims handler did say that the loss adjusters would have the final say once they 
inspected. However,  when the loss adjusters inspected, and referred the matter  back to L&G 
because of the unoccupancy,  L&G instructed  them to proceed and apologised to Mr N for 
any worry that had been caused  because the loss adjusters hadnt  been aware that 
unoccupancy wasnt an issue  for it. 
Following all of this a drying company was appointed.  Drying  equipment  was installed at the 
property and strip-out work was planned.  Mr N asked to use his own contractor and only 
once his quotes were  received  which were  more expensive than the loss adjusters had 
priced the work at  did L&G review matters  and decide that an error regarding the 
unoccupancy had been made. 
Ref: DRN52056912L&Gs notes  suggest  that its underwriting decision had actually been made in respect of the 
policy not being avoided in its entirety due to the unoccupancy. This meant the claim could 
progress, not that it was accepted regardless of the unoccupancy. But that was not the 
message that was communicated  to Mr N  and on more than one occasion.  And, having  
been very clear  with Mr N that the unoccupancy  wasnt a bar to the claim, L&G acted to fulfil 
its liability in this respect by putting  drying  equipment into the property (which also equates to 
a contract to repair), seeking to arranging strip out works and asking Mr N to provide quotes 
which it then assessed. L&G cant fairly  or reasonably walk away  from that just because  it 
decided a mistake had been  made.
Furthermore, I accept what Mr N says about  having  started work earlier if hed known L&G 
wasnt going to engage with the claim. I can see that he was keen at the outset to prevent 
further damage from occurring and that as soon  as L&G declined the claim he acted to get 
work underway by approaching his family for loans. The work then progressed  but would, 
most likely, have completed more quickly if L&G hadnt declined  the claim.
Im satisfied that the only fair outcome here is for me to require L&G to accept the claim. 
L&G will have to reimburse  Mr Ns costs for reinstating the property upon  sight  of proof from 
him as to whats been paid. For any proven costs, interest* will have to be paid on the sum in 
question. L&G will be able to deduct any relevant policy excess and apply  any applicable 
policy limits.
Mr N was unable to let the property whilst the work  was on-going. It isnt clear  whether a 
tenancy was due to start and would have  done but for the leak. If Mr N can show that there  
was then Id expect L&G to consider that in respect  of a loss of rent claim under the policy.
Further, if Mr N lets the property again  once the works are completed and sends proof  of this 
to L&G Id expect  it to consider making  a compensation  payment to Mr N in respect of the 
rent he could have  earned if it had got things right at the outset or, having set out its stall that 
unoccupancy wasnt a problem, hadnt declined the claim  when it did. Thats  because  in 
either instance the works would likely have completed much sooner allowing  the property to 
be placed on the letting market and been  re-let at an earlier  time. Therefore, any loss relates 
to L&Gs  failures, in just the same way as if it or its contractors had caused delays when 
carrying out works.
Im also satisfied that all of this caused Mr N a lot of distress and inconvenience. To make up 
for that Im going to require  L&G to pay Mr N a total of £750 compensation. If the previously 
offered £450 has already been paid by L&G then it will now only need to pay a further £300. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Legal & General  Insurance Limited  to:
Accept the claim and, upon sight of proof from Mr N, reimburse  him for the cost of 
reinstating the property, plus interest* on each  payment made  from the date of payment 
until settlement is made.
 
Consider, upon sight of proof,  Mr Ns loss in respect of rent that could have  been  
received either under  the policy or because  work  didnt complete as soon as it otherwise 
would have done.
Ref: DRN52056913Pay Mr N a total of £750 compensation  if £450  has already been paid then only the 
remaining £300 will now have  to be paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Legal  & General 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr N, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5205691