K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) increased her contractual  
monthly payment  (CMP) on her mortgage  in 2018. Shes unhappy her mortgage account 
was included in a remediation programme when it wasnt in arrears. She thinks  this led to 
her CMP  being increased unfairly.
background
Mrs P has a mortgage with Halifax. In June 2018,  Halifax wrote to Mrs P to tell her theyd 
reviewed her mortgage account  in line with guidance issued by the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  The letter said following the review  they found  at least  one of her 
monthly payments  had included an amount towards  her arrears. Halifax confirmed  the 
account wasnt in arrears any longer, but following the review her new monthly payment 
would be £725.46.
Mrs P complained. She was unhappy  that her monthly payment had gone up from £710.46 
when her account wasnt in arrears,  and she was on a fixed  interest rate.
Halifax upheld the complaint. They explained that when Mrs P took out her interest rate 
product in 2017, the monthly payments had been  calculated using a lower outstanding  
balance than was actually owed. So since she took out the new rate in November 2017, 
shed been paying less than she needed to in order to clear the balance by the end of the 
term. This was then picked up when  Halifax  reviewed her account  following FCA guidance in 
June 2018, and her monthly payment was corrected. 
Halifax apologised for this, said theyd written off the difference in the payments Mrs P had 
been making compared to what she should have been paying each month, corrected her 
monthly payment  in light of this, and offered £100  compensation. They  refunded £56.02  to 
her account  which  included the difference  in payments made, as well as 8% interest on that 
amount. Halifax confirmed that Mrs Ps new monthly  payment would now be £717.68  this 
would pay off the correct outstanding balance by the end of the term (following  the 
adjustment of £56.02). 
Mrs P remained unhappy  and asked our service to look into things. Since the adjustment 
Halifax made in 2018, Mrs P has not been making the higher monthly  payment and so the 
mortgage is accruing  arrears. Our investigator looked into things and explained  that, whilst 
Halifax had made  a mistake, he thought theyd offered to do enough to put things right.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So the complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 June 2020.  This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This is not the first complaint Mrs P has made to Halifax  about  her mortgage. In 2017, our 
service considered another complaint for Mrs P. The outcome of which meant Halifax re-
structured the mortgage  account to reflect that it should never have been in arrears.  Halifax  
Ref: DRN56610152also paid compensation. So I can understand why Mrs P was surprised to receive a letter the 
following year explaining  that her mortgage  had been reviewed, and this was in relation to 
her arrears.
However, Mrs P complains that because she was never actually in arrears,  her monthly 
payment should  not have been increased  in light of this review. But from looking at what 
both parties have sent us, Im satisfied the arrears previously reported were  not the reason 
for the increase in Mrs Ps monthly payments. Yes  the remediation programme that 
stemmed from the arrears led Mrs Ps mortgage account to be reviewed, but the review only 
led to Halifax spotting the previous mistake theyd  made in November 2017. The mistake  
had already been made by that point, and so the increase in monthly payments resulted 
from Halifax trying to rectify the mistake to ensure Mrs Ps mortgage was fully repaid by the 
due date.
Halifax have provided  evidence to support their explanation of what went wrong in 
November 2017.  From looking at this, Im satisfied Mrs P agreed to a product switch  with 
Halifax based on the incorrect mortgage balance,  which resulted in an incorrect monthly 
payment being  quoted to Mrs P. Mrs P agreed to take out an interest rate of 2.49% on her 
mortgage for five years   on the basis that her CMP would be £710.46. But Halifax  have  now 
confirmed that this information  was wrong.  Her correct CMP until 31 January 2023 (after  the 
relevant adjustments)  is now £717.68.
Halifax have refunded the difference between the monthly payment Mrs P was paying  since  
the product switch,  and what she should  have been  paying if Halifax  had applied  the product 
switch correctly. Theyve also added 8% simple interest on top of this, which  is what Id have 
expected them to do. However, we still have the problem that Mrs P is now expected to pay 
a higher CMP than she agreed to when she chose  the product  switch. 
Mrs P does owe this money  to Halifax, and still would have done had the error not been 
made  so I dont think Halifax  should  have to refund this to her, or re-work her account as if 
the incorrect mortgage balance was the true balance. As a result, Mrs P will also need to 
make up the payment shortfall thats accrued as a result of her not paying the higher monthly  
payment since the account was adjusted and corrected in July 2018. 
Ive thought about whether, if Halifax had given Mrs P the correct  information in November 
2017 when she agreed to the product switch, would she still have agreed to it. On balance I 
think the answer is yes. The monthly  payment still would  have  been  reduced by over £40 per 
month compared to what she was paying before, and based on the information  we currently  
have, Im not persuaded that the monthly  payments being £7 higher  than they were originally 
quoted would have made a difference to Mrs Ps decision. However, I welcome Mrs Ps 
comments on this if she disagrees with me on this point.
On the basis that I do think  Mrs P would still have taken this interest rate product  out if she 
was given the correct information   I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax to make any 
more adjustments  to the account than theyve already offered to do. Mrs P was made aware 
of the correct monthly payment  in July 2018,  and has chosen not to pay it. 
As I wont be asking Halifax to write off the difference in monthly payments for the remaining 
term of the interest  rate product, Mrs P will need  to make the correct payments of £717.68 to 
her mortgage moving forward, and make up the arrears that have now accrued on the 
account. However, Halifax will need  to be flexible in the way it expects these arrears to be 
repaid, taking into account  Mrs Ps individual circumstances and what she can afford to pay.
Ref: DRN56610153Halifax have offered Mrs P £100  compensation in recognition of the impact this error has 
had on her. However, taking into account  Mrs Ps circumstances and the way this error  has 
affected her I think this amount should be increased  to £250. Mrs P has already  had a 
history of problems with Halifax about her mortgage.  In 2017, she finally thought these had 
all been sorted and her mortgage account was on a clean slate. 
I think receiving  a letter that says her account had been reviewed due to previous arrears  
would have been particularly distressing for Mrs P, as this had already been the subject of a 
previous complaint  which she thought had been  sorted. Shes also now discovered that 
she has to pay more  each  month  than she initially  planned. So overall, I think  Halifax should 
pay Mrs P £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused. I would also expect  
Halifax to make any adjustments necessary  to the way its reported Mrs Ps mortgage to 
credit reference agencies since this mistake  took place in 2017.
responses to my provisional  decision
Halifax accepted  the outcome of my provisional  decision.
Mrs P did not accept my provisional decision.  She said, in summary, that she signed  the 
mortgage offer in good faith and agreed  to pay the amounts contained in it. She said as this 
is a legal document, she shouldnt have to pay more than she agreed because  of Halifaxs  
own mistake. She said as Halifax made  the mistake, they should have to absorb  the loss 
arising from it. Mrs P says fair and reasonable should not be a consideration here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and Ive thought carefully  about  what  
Mrs P has said in response to my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mrs P feels this is a clear legal matter,  as shes  agreed to a legal contract with 
Halifax. Mrs P doesnt think what is fair and reasonable  should come into the equation  here 
as shes signed  a legally binding document. Ive considered Mrs Ps points very carefully, but 
I still dont think an error  made  by Halifax when agreeing to this product switch should  result 
in them  writing off a part of this debt that she still owes.
I note that Halifaxs  offer letter  dated  29 November 2017 says:  Our agreement is made up 
of this offer letter (including the enclosed  mortgage  illustration), mortgage  conditions and the 
mortgage deed. So it is not the offer solely that sets out the terms of the agreement 
between Mrs P and Halifax. I havent been able to see a copy  of the mortgage deed, but this 
would set out the amount  Mrs P borrowed from Halifax at the outset (excluding interest, 
charges and other costs).  Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage,  and 
this explains that the agreement will last until Mrs P has paid everything owed under the 
agreement and Halifax no longer has a mortgage  over the property. So taking all of this into 
account  it is not just the offer document generated in November 2017 which  determines  
the amount of Mrs Ps mortgage loan.
Mrs P doesnt want our service  to consider what is fair and reasonable here, but Im afraid 
that is the role of our service and it is what were required to do. Mrs P borrowed money  from 
Halifax that she agreed to repay. The error  Halifax made in applying  the product switch to 
the incorrect figure doesnt detract from the fact that Mrs P still owes  the outstanding funds. I 
Ref: DRN56610154note Mrs P has referred to this incorrect amount as a redemption figure. But that is not what  
it is. If Mrs P was planning to redeem  the mortgage in full she would need  to request a 
redemption figure  separately  from Halifax  which  would include the full amount still owed at 
that date, including any additional  costs  applied. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Ps frustrations  about everything thats happened,  Im satisfied the 
way in which Halifax has re-worked the account to put things right is a fair resolution here. 
Halifax will need to agree an affordable way for Mrs P to repay the difference  in payments 
from July 2018  to date and Mrs P will need  to engage with this process.  Halifax  will also 
need to ensure the correct account position  is reported to credit reference  agencies. I still 
think £250 is a fair amount for Halifax to pay Mrs P directly to compensate for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by their error.
Mrs P has said that we should be advising  her to seek legal advice. Its up to Mrs P whether  
she chooses to accept this decision or whether she chooses to pursue the matter through 
the courts. 
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Bank of Scotland plc to:
Confirm to Mrs P that the account has been re-structured, setting out the changes 
that have been  made;
Ensure the account  has been  reported correctly to credit reference agencies;
Pay Mrs P £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5661015