K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments he says 
he didnt make using  his credit card account.
background
Mr B contacted Halifax on 7 February  2019 to dispute a number of payments. His card was 
blocked and a new one issued. He disputes  payments were made with that card too. He 
provided a list of payments that totalled just over £6,000.
Halifax said that it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that payments Mr B had made 
online had been  confirmed with one time passcodes (OTPs) that had been sent to the 
mobile number it had for Mr B. And that some  payments with the new card had been made 
when the chip was read and the correct  PIN entered. Mr B had told it that some of the 
payments on his card might have been made by his son and that they ran a franchised 
business together. And a number of the larger payments  had been  made  to a company that 
Mr B was registered as director  and company  secretary of and it provided an extract of 
publically available information confirming  that. So it concluded that the payments had been 
completed by someone known to Mr B.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that Mr B had told 
her that no-one else knows  the PIN on his card. It hadnt been changed since  2016  and so 
she couldnt see how a fraudster could have made payments with the new card. Hed also 
said that no one had access to his phone  so she didnt see how someone could have 
intercepted the OTPs. And Mr B had accepted  hed received a text about the new card when 
it had been dispatched. She didnt see evidence of how his details could  have been  obtained  
from a virus on a computer as he said he didnt store them.  She said shed seen the 
evidence showing a connection between Mr B and a business and that he was a director  
there and she thought  it most likely that the payments in dispute were  business ones.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that some  of the payments listed by the investigator were wrongly 
marked as disputed or not disputed.  He maintained  that the large payments said to be linked 
to his business were  fraudulent. And that all payments after 15 January 2019 werent made  
by him. He wasnt in possession of the new card. He said that the OTP system had been 
shown not to be secure. And that hed been careful  with his security  details  - but Halifax  
hadnt when it sent out his card and PIN. Hed no knowledge of being registered as a 
director and thought this was linked  to the fraud. Mr B said he was intoxicated when he 
spoke to Halifax and so we shouldnt take the call recordings into account. He didnt think 
wed done a sufficient investigation and wanted this referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated,  say with a card and PIN. Where  credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974  applies and it states  that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
Ref: DRN59674952So Ive thought about the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-Whats the most likely explanation of how these payments  were  made?
-Did Mr B authorise these payments which might have involved him allowing someone 
else to use his card?
Im satisfied based on the available  evidence that the payments were authenticated  as the 
correct information  about Mr Bs card was collected  for the online payments and security 
checks passed and the chip was read for those made with the new card and the PIN entered  
for several  of those  which werent contactless.  
I want to say a bit more  about the actual  disputed payments. Mr B wrote  to this service on 18 
February 2020 confirming that all the payments he disputed were  as in his letter  of 30 March  
2019. He attached scanned copies of the related documents for ease of reference which  he 
said showed what he disputed. In those  attached  schedules he disputed  the payments to 
anonymised businesses J and S on 6 December 2018 as fraud.  But in his letter  received 
on 3 March 2020 following our investigators opinion he says they werent. A difference  also 
applies to a payment  to L on 7 December 2018  which he now says he is disputing having  
before said it was genuine. During  our investigation  he also at one point said hed made 
payments to a supermarket with the new card. But then said hed got mixed up with a 
different card hed used  there and now disputes  all of them.
In addition I know Mr B doesnt  want me to rely on what  he said to Halifax  during calls as he 
says he was then intoxicated. Ive borne that in mind  when I listened to a call he had with it 
on 7 February 2019 to report  fraud  on his initial card.  In my view he was able to discuss in 
detail payments showing on his statement and respond to questions  raised. I note in 
particular that during  that call he phoned his son and Ive listened to Mr Bs side of that 
conversation. Its clear to me that his son was making payments from the account for their 
business. Mr B explained then that he is the joint owner of a business with him. But hes now 
denied having  any role in a business.  And he says that any payments made for his son took 
place with Mr B present  although he might not have recognised the name  of the businesses 
involved. 
I am unclear which payments Mr B is disputing because as Ive shown above hes not been 
consistent. Even if I was to accept an element of confusion in his initial  call with Halifax  hes 
had ample opportunity since  then to clarify the position. That makes it difficult  to rely on his 
testimony when looking  at this complaint.
What has been  consistent though it that he has disputed several large payments to a 
business on 16 January 2019  and which in total make  up nearly £5,000  of his claim. I know 
Mr B has seen  the information available online about his involvement  with a business  that 
seems to be the same one receiving these payments. He is recorded  as becoming a director  
in October 2018  and being a person with significant  control at one time. I know he disputes 
this and thinks this is in some way linked to a fraud. But as hes pointed out its unusual  that 
he was linked to that company some months before any attempted  fraud. Hes had the 
opportunity to provide any information to establish  why that connection  is wrong and hes not 
done so. Im looking at what  he and Halifax have  said and its fairly up to him to pursue any 
investigation into his apparent links with that company including through reporting  this to the 
relevant authorities.
Ref: DRN59674953Im looking  at the overall fraud including that with a new card.  Mr B says he didnt receive 
this. That doesnt  explain how someone found out his PIN. Ive seen clear evidence  that his 
PIN hadnt been changed since 2016.  And so there was no need for Halifax to send a new 
PIN out. So while its not impossible for one item of mail with the card to go missing  theres 
no explanation  of how someone who he says had also been taking money  from his account 
also found out his PIN. And those  payments that were made  in February 2019 with this card 
look to me more like regular household spend than those of a fraudster given the amounts 
and where they were  made.
To find the payments Mr B disputes  werent  made with his consent Id need  to think all of the 
following were most  likely:
-An unknown person was able to discover  Mr Bs card details  to make online payments 
and then intercept  his post to obtain  his new card anticipating when  it would be sent. 
-Mr B only received text messages about his new card from Halifax  and somehow 
someone else was able to intercept the OTPs that were sent likely using his phone.
-That person  was somehow able to find out the existing PIN it would seem  only after the 
old card was cancelled  even  though no advice of PIN was required  as it hadnt changed.
-Disputed payments  started on 7 December 2018 (based on the latest response from   
Mr B when  he says that a payment to L isnt correct on that day). And the fraudster 
continued to make  payments until 18 February  2019. So the fraudster didnt try and take 
out as much money as quickly as possible which might be expected.
-There is an explanation of Mr Bs link to the business that has been referred to above  
and the payments werent related to his business  links.
-The information that Mr B gave  in a call to Halifax on 7 February 2019 about him owning 
a business with his son and making  payments for his own business wasnt accurate.
-Mr B hadnt allowed  anyone else to use his details. If he had that might  have explained  
why hes not been clear  about  which payments he disputes. If he hadnt  then Id need to 
think there is a good reason why he has been  inconsistent about which payments he 
disputes.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  I think  are most likely based  on the available  evidence.  
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here. But I consider that the most likely 
explanation is that Mr B consented to these  payments either  by making them  himself or 
allowing someone  else to use his card to do so. As a result I think  that these disputed 
payments were all authorised. So I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5967495