K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they have  not received any money from their Santander UK Plc 
policy despite being told they would.  They  also say that the information on the application  
recorded they were  smokers when neither of them had ever smoked.
background
An adjudicator said that term assurance  policies were not designed  to generate  a lump sum 
at the end of the term but would only pay out if the person concerned died during that term.
So, in this case, Mr or Mrs L, the surviving  spouse,  couldve used  this money towards  paying  
off their interest-only mortgage balance. So like car or travel insurance e.g. car or travel  
insurance the policy provided  protection and peace  of mind in case something had 
happened but no more than this
He said he had not seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that Mr and Mrs L were  told they 
would get money  back at the end of term.
He noted their comments about  the smoking and alcohol consumption information on the 
application but said it was not possible to safely say if this was incorrect,  especially after all 
this time. Further, Mr and Mrs L had signed the form to say the information recorded on it 
was correct while Santander had confirmed that the premiums charged on the policy were 
normal non-smoker rates.
Mrs L reiterated that she thought they would get something back after all the money  they 
had paid in.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons, and do not feel there is 
much I can add to what he has already said.
The evidence indicates that this policy was taken out to protect their interest-only  mortgage 
i.e. to pay out £30,000 in the event  that either Mr or Mrs L died during its 21 year term  and 
the premiums were set on the basis that there would be no pay-out if they survived  this 
period. Any policy which offered the guarantee of a definition  pay-out at the end of the term 
would have needed significantly higher premiums as these premiums  were only sufficient  to 
pay for the ongoing  cost of the insurance protection, not to build up a savings pot as well.
As this policy was taken  out more than 20 years  it is understandable if people have different 
recollections about what was said at the time. But in order  to uphold the complaint I would 
need to conclude that there was sufficient,  persuasive evidence to safely conclude  that 
Santander definitely misled Mr and Mrs L. I do not believe there is such sufficient evidence.
I am also satisfied that the premium costs were based on Mr and Mrs L being  non-smokers 
so any mistake in the paperwork  did not result in them paying too much.
Ref: DRN52794382my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279438