K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained about the way U K Insurance  Limited has dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.
background 
In March 2016 Mr G reported an incident  to his insurer, UKI. He said another car had driven 
into his car while  it was stationary in a car park.
UKI offered Mr G the use of a non fault provider  otherwise known as a Claims 
Management Company (CMC)   to deal with the claim. 
In October  2018 Mr G contacted us. He provided  a copy of a reply to his complaint from UKI 
in May 2018.  Mr G said he was unhappy  with the length of time it was taking to resolve the 
claim. Mr G said it was a minor incident.  Hed reported it to UKI. He was put in a hire car 
while his car was repaired. There  appeared  to be a problem recovering the hire car costs 
from the other drivers insurer. 
Mr G said hed been deluged with correspondence and calls from several parties  dealing  
with his claim. Mr G felt hed provided all of the information required  and despite UKI telling 
him that he wouldnt need to provide further information  in September 2018  it then asked  
him to complete  an accident report form. 
Mr G was unhappy that UKI didnt obtain statements from the witness provided. Mr G said 
he wanted UKI to confirm  his involvement  was now at an end, to apologise to him and 
compensate him for the inconvenience caused  as he had to chase UKI for replies  and 
updates on the claim.  Mr G is unhappy  that he may be asked to attend court.
UKI told our investigator that Mr G wont be pursued for the recovery of the hire car costs if 
they cant be recovered from the third party. But it told Mr G it would require his assistance  in 
pursuing the costs  of the claim  including  the repair costs   from the third party. UKI said it 
asked Mr G to complete an authority form in September  2018  because it didnt previously 
have this  and that UKI didnt always ask for it at the beginning of a claim for a non fault 
incident. 
UKI apologised to Mr G for failing  to proactively contact the witnesses for a statement. It paid 
Mr G £100 compensation  for this poor service. 
Our investigator initially thought UKI had acted reasonably. 
Mr G didnt agree he should  have to complete any more  forms  as UKI told him in 
September 2018 that he wouldnt need  to. His concern was that hed asked UKI to explain 
why it asked for it  and to provide an assurance that it wouldnt ask for further information 
again. But he said UKI didnt reply.  Mr G was unhappy that he was referred  to a CMC when 
he had use of a courtesy  car under his policy with UKI for the duration of repairs. The 
information requested  by the CMC he felt was erroneous and unnecessary.  Mr G said UKI 
caused confusion  from the outset and delayed dealing with his claim because it wasnt clear 
whose authority each  party was acting  on.
Ref: DRN57811122Mr G said that he would accept the £100 compensation UKI paid  on the basis  he wouldnt 
be pursued for the hire car costs and hed have  no further involvement  with UKI and the 
other parties  involved in his claim.  
Our investigator explained that we wouldnt think it unreasonable for UKI to ask Mr G to 
assist it in recovering the costs of the claim from the other drivers  insurer.  But on second 
review, he thought UKI should pay Mr G an additional £100  compensation for the confusion 
it caused in September 2018   when it asked him to complete a form  but then told him it 
wasnt needed. He told Mr G that this service  cannot  investigate  complaints about the 
actions of the CMC. 
UKI accepted the investigators second view. Mr G didnt agree. In summary  he says:
We should be able to look at his complaint about  the CMCs involved as UKI referred  
him to them.
He doesnt  believe UKI followed the correct process by referring him to a CMC when  
he has courtesy car provision under his car insurance policy.
He feels the information weve given him is contradictory.
He will only accept the £100  compensation on the basis that UKI and the other 
parties involved in his claim will no longer contact him about the claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer reports an incident  to his insurer  if it appears  to be a clear non fault 
incident  the insurer may offer the services  of a CMC. A CMC can provide additional 
benefits to the services  available under the car insurance policy.  
We cannot investigate  complaints about CMCs. The activity  they provide  isnt one that is 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  We can only investigate  complaints 
against businesses  that are regulated  by the FCA. 
Where an insurer referred a customer to a CMC, we can look at whether the insurer gave 
the customer enough information  to make an informed decision.  
I can see from UKIs letter to Mr G dated 22 August 2017 that it doesnt have a recording of 
the call  but it doesnt dispute that it directed  Mr G to a CMC  rather  than offering use of a 
courtesy car as this is the correct claims process for the benefit of our policyholders. UKI 
said it offers  this service  as it believes most  customers would prefer  to have a hire car that is 
a similar  size to theirs, rather than a smaller  courtesy car available  under the policy.
So it seems  that  by UKIs admission  it didnt give Mr G the option to make a claim under 
his policy. Where this happens,  we make a finding  on balance  of what we think  a customer 
would most  likely have  done  had he been  given enough information. 
If we find that  the customer would have probably used the CMC anyway  we wont  
recommend any further action. If we find that  on balance we think the customer  wouldnt 
have used the services  of a CMC, we look at what the consequences of the referral  were. 
Ref: DRN57811123We can consider awarding compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the 
referral. But we must keep in mind that we cannot  make a finding as to the actions of the 
CMC. They provide their own terms of business in the agreement they made with Mr G. 
In this case, I think there isnt enough for me to say that UKI gave Mr G sufficient information 
to allow  him to make an informed decision as to whether to use a CMC or claim under his 
car insurance policy. 
But  I cant safely conclude that Mr G has been  prejudiced by UKIs  actions here.  Although 
we cannot look at the actions of the CMC, I can see that UKI told Mr G in August  2017 that 
the CMCS form of authority which it asked Mr G to sign, said that it wasnt  seeking to 
recover the hire car charges from Mr G. There has been difficulty obtaining liability  from the 
other drivers  insurer.  And so UKI and the CMC appear to be seeking court action in order to 
recover the costs of the claim: both the hire car costs while Mr Gs car was being repaired  
and the repair costs, through their solicitors.
So in any event,  because  the case is likely to require settlement in court,  its reasonable for 
UKI to require Mr G to co-operate with it in settling his claim by assisting and attending court  
if necessary. And so I think this outcome would have been the same even if UKI hadnt  
referred Mr G to a CMC. 
I think that UKI should have done more  to contact the witness.  And I understand it has since  
done this. But I cant conclude that this would have definitely made a difference, given the 
difficulties UKI has experienced in obtaining  liability.  So I think  UKIs  apology and £100 
compensation payment to Mr G is fair and reasonable here. 
I think UKI caused confusion when  it asked Mr G to complete a form in September  2018.  
When Mr G queried  it, UKI told Mr G he didnt need  to complete it - but then later said it 
needed Mr G to sign it. 
UKI accepts  this poor service and has agreed to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the 
confusion and inconvenience caused. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
I understand that Mr G only wishes to accept the £100 compensation on the condition that 
his involvement ends with UKI and the other  parties dealing  with his claim. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think  UKI can ask Mr G to co-operate with it when  dealing  with a 
claim under his policy. 
So I think UKI should pay Mr G an additional £100 compensation  for the poor service it 
provided when  it asked him to complete a form in September 2018. I think this is a fair way 
to resolve his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused in September 2018  when it asked him to complete its form. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr G accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
Ref: DRN57811124Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5781112