K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  has unfairly declined a claim made  for her 
damaged boiler.  She has had to pay for repairs herself. She also complains the issues  arose 
because the initial inspection and following boiler services didnt identify that her boiler had 
been fitted incorrectly such that it has resulted in damage. 
This decision only deals  with whether or not Ms J had a valid claim for repairs to her boiler. 
Her concerns about the initial inspection  and subsequent services  are being dealt with 
separately against a different business. 
background
Ms J has a SSE Home Services policy which provides breakdown cover and servicing for 
her boiler. The breakdown  and servicing cover  are provided by different businesses.  On 7 
November 2018  she noticed a leak from her boiler and called for an engineer to attend.  The 
appointment was arranged  for 10 November. 
When the engineer  inspected  the boiler,  he noted  that it was saturated  in water  and was no 
longer operable. He condemned it as unsafe  to use. He noted that Ms J was having  works 
done to her home, in the roof area, and found the flue had become dislodged during the 
works, which resulted  in the damage caused.  There was no cover provided under the policy,  
and as the flue wasnt sited as it should be, Ms J says her policy was voided.  It did offer to 
quote Ms J for a new boiler. 
Ms J arranged her own inspection through the builder  that was carrying  out works to her 
property, in the following week. A gas services business inspected the boiler and found that 
it had been installed  incorrectly  and was deemed illegal by Gas Safe. It was the business 
opinion that these issues should have  been picked up in the initial inspection and 
subsequent surveys.  
Ms J was contacted on 12 November  2018 to quote  for a new boiler,  however, by this time 
she had already had repairs carried out. As Ms J paid a total of £750  to have her boiler 
repaired, she complained about  the declined claim (and the servicing of her boiler).  Amtrust 
stood by its decision to decline  the claim, it was satisfied by its engineers report  that the 
ingress of water into the boiler had been  caused by the work she was having done  to her 
property. 
Our investigator was satisfied the decision to decline the claim was fair. Although she wasnt 
ultimately persuaded the damage  had been caused by building work being conducted on the 
property (video footage  showed there was no movement in the flue), both Amtrust and Ms 
Js inspection concluded the flue had been  installed incorrectly. Ms Js inspection went 
further, concluding the instillation was illegal  and that water had been seeping  into the boiler 
for a long time.  The policy contains exclusions for poor workmanship or negligence and so 
she was satisfied Ms Js claim was excluded under the policy terms. 
Ms J has asked  for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She is unhappy that despite 
paying for boiler breakdown cover, she wasnt covered  when she needed it. She also said 
she tried contacting Amtrust again but was left with no option  than to seek  an independent  
review of Amtrusts engineers findings. 
Ref: DRN54223892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  for any complaint of this type,  involving  a claim made  under  an insurance 
policy, is the contract between the parties. Thats the policy document  which sets out the 
terms and conditions of cover.  
Unless the insurance is all risk, policies will contain  limitations and exclusions to cover. 
There is nothing unusual  about that. Ms Js policy does  provide cover for broken down 
boilers. But that is subject to the terms and conditions of cover.  The general conditions set 
out some  of the exclusions to the cover  provided. Those include:
9.5 (b) repairs that are required  as a consequence  of your own, or a third partys  
misuse, wilful damage, negligence or poor workmanship. 
Amtrust initially  declined  the claim as it believed damage had been caused during works  
which were being  carried out to Ms Js property. I can understand why it might  have reached  
that initial conclusion,  particularly as the outside of the flue is covered in render. However, a 
video of the flue shows no movement at all, so its difficult to see how the work might  have 
cause the damage; although I do accept  it is possible 
Ms J says she tried contacting Amtrust  again about  the damage but was left with little choice  
other than to arrange her own inspection. But that doesnt seem borne out by the timeline. 
Amtrusts engineer inspected the boiler  on 10 November  2018. But its records  show when it 
contacted her on 12 November, just two days later (and a Monday),  to quote for a new boiler 
she had already had work  done. And one of the invoices supplied  by Ms J is for work done  
on that same  day. So its hard to see how Ms J allowed or wanted Amtrust to do a further  
inspection given how quickly  she arranged for the work to be completed.  And by having the 
work done, no-one can now know what likely  caused the damage. 
Im therefore  left with Ms Js engineers report and what we know  from previous inspections  
of the boiler and flue. Its my understanding from the records that the flue wasnt installed  to 
current standards  and under Gas Safe guidelines  that doesnt need to be recorded  as 
unsafe. 
Ms Js report  suggests that the flue has been  degrading and water  ingressing for some 
considerable time. It also says the installation  of the flue wasnt  correct  and went so far as to 
conclude it was illegal. It seems to me that whichever engineer is correct, Ms Js claim isnt 
covered. 
I find this because if Amtrust is correct, and the damage was caused by third party works to 
the property, the above clause would apply. The same clause would also apply  if Ms Js 
report is correct, and the installation of the flue was incorrect and illegal. Both causes would 
mean the damage had been caused as a result  of poor workmanship and/or negligence.  
Either way the policy  does not provide cover  in such circumstances. I appreciate Ms J feels 
her boiler should have  been covered. But exclusions for poor workmanship and/or 
negligence are very commonplace in these  types of policy. I therefore find the claim has 
been fairly declined.
Ref: DRN54223893It follows that I find no basis on which to ask Amtrust to cover the cost of the repairs Ms J 
had carried out to her boiler. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5422389