K821x#15complaint
Miss T has complained about Zenith Insurance plcs service  after she made  a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
In making this complaint Miss T has been occasionally  helped  by her partner, but for ease of 
reading Ill refer to his comments as being  those of Miss T.
background
Miss Ts car was damaged in an accident so she claimed on her policy. Zenith settled  her 
claim but Miss T was unhappy with a number of aspects of its service. She complained.  
Zenith acknowledged that some of its service wasn't  a good as it would like. And to put 
things right it offered  Miss T £150 compensation. Miss T brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator didn't  think that Zenith  had dealt with Miss T fairly. So he said it should increase 
its offer of compensation to £250  in total.  Miss T didn't think that went far enough so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it and my award for redress will be the same as our investigators recommendation.
In bringing this complaint Miss T has made  a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything she said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessment.
valuation
Zenith said that Miss Ts car wasn't  economical  to repair.  So it settled her claim on a total 
loss basis. But Miss T bought the salvage  and had the car repaired.  Following the repair she 
instructed an engineer  to inspect the car to ensure  it was roadworthy. In his report  he said 
the car was worth  £4,730.  Miss T said that this valuation was higher than the figure Zenith  
put on the car before the accident. So she says that Zeniths valuation  was wrong. But I think  
Miss Ts mistaken.
Zenith said that the pre-accident value of Miss Ts car was £4,825.  And that sum is clearly 
higher than the amount  the Ms Ts engineer who inspected her car put on it after its repairs. 
And if Miss T had chosen not to buy the salvage from Zenith it would have paid her that sum 
less her excess of £100. But as Miss T chose to keep  the salvage  Zenith  also ducted the 
cars salvage value  of around £1,600 before setting the claim. It might  help if I explain that 
when it settles  a claim on a total loss basis, the car becomes  Zeniths property. And it will 
usually reduce its losses by selling the car to a salvage agent. So I think its reasonable that 
it deducted the amount it could have expected to receive for that salvage from the claim 
settlement. Also, for completeness,  I checked  the relevant  trade guides to see if the amount 
Zenith valued Miss Ts car at was reasonable. Having done  so I'm satisfied that it was.
paying for the engineers  report
Before Zenith would insure Miss Ts car again  it asked her to provide an engineers report  to 
show that the car was safe to be on the road. Miss T had to pay for that report  herself. I think  
Ref: DRN55031472it was reasonable  that Zenith  would  want to ensure that the car was safe to drive before 
insuring it again  after deciding it was a total loss. And it was Miss Ts decision to retain and 
repair the car. And an engineers report isn't a cost that Zenith would have incurred if it had 
kept the salvage. So I think its reasonable that Miss T bears the cost of the post repair  
engineers report  herself.
paying for a hire car
Miss Ts policy with Zenith only entitled her to a courtesy car while  her car was with a 
repairer undergoing  repairs.  The policy doesn't entitle her to a courtesy car if it was a total 
loss. But Miss T has a separate policy, underwritten by a different insurer,  which entitled her 
to a hire car for 21 days. But Miss T said that because of confusion over whether or not her 
car was repairable she needed  the hire car for longer than that and she thinks Zenith should 
pay for that.
I've seen that Zenith initially  told Miss T that her car was a total loss, then it thought  it might 
be repairable before instructing an engineer to assess it, who again said it was a total loss. I 
can see that this did delay its settling of the claim. But Miss Ts car wasn't ever with a 
repairer for repair. So she wasn't entitled  to a courtesy car under the terms of her policy.  And 
I can see that Zenith did agree to pay for an extension of Miss Ts hire car based on the time 
it had unreasonably delayed setting the claim for while waiting for an engineers assessment. 
I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. And I don't think  it needed to pay for any 
hire costs because it thought for a short time the car might have been repairable.  So I'm not 
going to instruct  Zenith to take any further action on this point.
salvage agents
Zenith said it would  take Miss Ts car to a safe and secure salvage yard. Miss T said that 
she might  like to keep  the car even if it was a total loss. Zenith told her that there was a 
chance that the car could  be subject  to further  minor damage  while  in the salvage  yard.  
Miss T has asked:
whether  an insurer can let your car be subject  to damage by their own supplier  and 
then not cover for it? 
She said that as she didn't have room  for her car she had to pay to put it in storage. Ill 
explain that if Zenith considered that Miss Ts car was economic to repair then we would say 
that it was fair for it to cover the costs  of any further damage it suffered while its agents were 
storing it. But as I've said above, because it thought the car was a total loss it would, under 
usual circumstances,  become its property.  So any extra  damage  to the car while  with its 
agents would be its concern alone. But because Miss T wanted to keep the car I think  it was 
reasonable that Zenith warned her that the car could suffer some further minor damage. 
Because of that Miss T chose to store the car herself. But that was her choice  she could 
have allowed Zenith to take the car to the salvage yard and it wouldn't have incurred any 
extra storage costs. So I don't think Zenith  needs to cover any extra costs Miss T paid 
because she didn't want the car to go to the salvage  yard.
compensation
Zenith has accepted  that it didn't get everything  right. And I can see that it created some 
delays. Also some of its communication could  have been better. And Miss T has had to 
make numerous phone calls and sent many  emails to sort matters out. So she doesn't  think  
Ref: DRN55031473that £250 compensation is enough. But having  considered the matter very carefully I'm 
satisfied that is appropriate  compensation to address Miss Ts distress  and inconvenience 
arising from Zeniths service. Thats  because  the sum is in line with awards we make in 
cases of similar seriousness. So Im satisfied its fair not to increase  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Zenith Insurance plc to 
compensate Miss T for her distress and inconvenience in the sum of £250 in total.  It should  
pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Miss T has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% simple a year*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
*If Zenith pays interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5503147