K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with BoS in a meeting. At the same time, they 
were sold a PPI policy to protect the monthly  payments on their mortgage. The policy 
covered Mr P for up to twelve months if he was unable to work because of an accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the complaint  should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree 
with the adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in considering Mr and Mrs Ps case.  Having done  so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
BoS has provided a copy of the mortgage  application  which  Mr and Mrs P signed.  Theres  a 
section in this headed Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance . And I can see 
that Mr P has signed in the space provided  below the statement Yes, I would  like to take 
advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application 
form which Mr P completed and signed.
So from what Ive seen  I think that Mr and Mrs P actively  decided  to take the PPI policy 
knowing they had a choice. But I can understand why they may not remember this now. This 
sale took place  a long time ago and memories  tend to fade over such  long periods of time.
BoS and Mr and Mrs P agree that this was an advised sale, so Ive taken  this to be the case. 
This means  that BoS needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. Theres no 
record of what was said at the meeting when the PPI was sold,  so I dont know  how it did 
this. But from what I know about their circumstances at the time,  I cant  see any reason why 
it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr P appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr P was the principal  earner  in the household, so it was his income that was most 
important for paying the mortgage.
Mr P says that he was entitled to sick pay and that he and Mrs P also had some savings 
that could have been used to make their mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any other means they might  have had for 
making these payments.  And they chose to take this cover  so it looks  like they valued 
this sort of protection.  A mortgage is also a big financial commitment  - where ones home 
is potentially at risk if the monthly repayments  cant be made. So I can see why they 
Ref: DRN53256562would have thought it worth  paying for the added security that the policy gave them  if 
things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the cost of the policy made it unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs P. And 
as the premiums were  paid monthly,  they could have cancelled it if it no longer met their 
needs.
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs P enough information for them to decide  if they wanted  
to take the PPI policy. I think its possible  that the information which they received could 
have been better than it was. But for much  the same  reasons that I dont think  the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think that better  information would  have changed their mind  
about buying it. I still think they would  have thought the policy  gave them useful benefits at 
an affordable price.
Ive thought about the points which Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has made in responding 
to our adjudicators view,  including whether BoS needs to give Mr and Mrs P some  of the 
commission they paid on the policy back.  Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage ended  in 2002. And, as 
our adjudicator explained, the new rules and guidance to businesses,  which  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  has recently introduced on PPI commission  paid by consumers, 
dont apply to mortgages which ended by this time.  So I dont think  BoS needs to refund any 
of this commission to Mr and Mrs P in these  circumstances. And none of the other points 
which were made change my mind  about  not upholding this complaint.  I still dont think that 
Mr and Mrs P have  lost out because  of anything that BoS may have done wrong when it sold 
this PPI policy to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5325656