K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the charges applied to his account. National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) hadnt informed him that his child account had converted  to an adult account.
background
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his father Mr M. When  Mr M was thirteen they 
opened a NatWest account for him. But NatWest never told them when it converted to an 
adult account.  Mr M complains hes been unfairly charged nearly £90 for being overdrawn. 
And he wants the charges refunding.
NatWest could see the account had changed  in December 2017 in accordance with the 
terms and conditions. Mr M had turned 18. The account had become overdrawn on a 
number of days between  July and September 2018. And Mr M had been charged  in line with 
the terms of the account. NatWest said it hadnt made any errors.  So it couldnt consider  
reimbursing the charges.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with NatWests response. So he contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He looked at the information  Mr M and NatWest had 
provided. And he felt the bank had dealt  with the complaint  fairly.  The charges had been 
applied in line with the terms of the account. And it was stated in the terms that it would  
convert to an adult account  when he reached  18.
Mr M didnt  agree. He felt it was unfair that NatWest hadnt told his son when the account 
changed. He had no experience of banking practise.  And the charges were a large amount 
for a young  adult.  So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M opened an adapt account  for his son in February  2015.  When  he turned 18 
NatWest changed  the account to a select current account. Mr M says his son wasnt 
informed when the account changed.  He wouldnt have any experience of banking  practise.  
And he wouldnt have  known whatd happened. So Ive looked  at everything Mr M and 
NatWest have said to see if the bank has done anything wrong.
The adapt  account was opened in 2015. As his parent  Mr M also signed  the agreement  
because his son was under 15. The adapt  account  was only available to individuals  aged 11 
to 18. And the terms and conditions state  the account would  change  to a select  account 
when the holder becomes  18. 
I cant be sure whether Mr M received any further notification  of the change in 2018.  Ive 
seen a copy of a leaflet which NatWest sent to adapt customers explaining the move to the 
select current account. The bank  hasnt shown any further evidence to confirm it was posted  
to Mr M. But NatWest has provided  the leaflet as an example of what may have been sent. 
And theres  nothing in the terms of the adapt  account to say NatWest  had to inform the 
customer when the account was altering. It had already been agreed to when the adapt  
account had been opened.
Ref: DRN59531832Mr M says his son was a young  man.  And he wouldnt  have  the same experience as 
someone who had used banking facilities for a longer period of time. I understand why Mr M 
is upset by the charges thatve been applied. Mr M has pointed out that the charges are a 
large sum of money for a young person. And I do sympathise with his sons  situation.
But its the customers responsibility to monitor their account  not the banks. And I can see 
he was able to manage his account for over three years  before he first became overdrawn. 
And Mr Ms son quickly restored his account  into credit  on each occasion.
The role of this service is to see if NatWest  has made any mistakes. And if it has what  it 
needs to do to put things  right. Ive looked  carefully at everything  thats  happened.  But I cant 
really say NatWest has done anything wrong.
When the adapt account opened in 2015 Mr M and his son agreed  to the terms and 
conditions of the account. That included  the agreement that the account  would convert into a 
select current account at the age of 18. And when the account became overdrawn NatWest 
applied the charges correctly and in line with the terms of the account.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what  Ive seen  I dont think 
NatWest has made any mistakes. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5953183