K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies that Mr H took out 
alongside his mortgage. 
I know that when  Mr H bought these policies,  Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) was trading as 
Halifax. To keep things simple, Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
background
Mr H bought his first PPI policy in 1998. The second policy  was taken out in 2003. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr H disagreed with that view. So the matter has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
After taking account of all of the information  before me, I havent upheld this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
As this complaint  involves two separate sales of PPI, Ive dealt with each policy separately. 
The 1998  sale 
I can see that Mr H bought this policy during a meeting  with BOS. I cant know  what was said 
during that meeting. To help me decide  whats likely to have happened,  Ive looked  at what  
Mr H remembers  about it. And Ive also taken account of the paperwork thats available from 
that time.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr H would have known the PPI was optional and 
he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. Mr H hasnt  complained  that BOS led him to 
believe that he didnt  have a choice about  buying cover.  I can see that he completed a form 
for the PPI that was separate to the mortgage. Although that form doesnt  say explicitly  that 
the cover  was optional,  in the absence of any evidence  from Mr H to the contrary, its likely 
that BOS did make  it clear  that he didnt have to take this policy  out. 
I think BOS advised  Mr H to buy PPI. So it had to make sure it was suitable for his needs. To 
help me decide  whether the policy was suitable,  Ive looked at what Mr H told us about  his 
personal circumstances at the time.  And Ive also considered the terms and conditions  of the 
cover. 
I can see that if he was unwell and couldnt  work,  Mr H would have received statutory sick 
pay from his employer. If hed had to make  a claim under the PPI policy, his mortgage 
repayments would have been  covered up to a maximum of 12 months for each claim. So I 
think the policy would have paid out in addition to and for longer  than the benefits he had in 
place from work. 
Ref: DRN56465002Mr H told us he had savings that he could have used to make repayments  towards  his 
mortgage if he lost his job. I accept that was the case. However, this loan was secured on  
Mr Hs home  and so if he couldnt  meet his repayments, it would  have been  at significant 
risk. I think that with PPI, Mr H could have  used his savings on his other essential 
expenditure at what would have  no doubt  been  a stressful time for him if he found himself 
out of work. 
Mr H told us that when  he bought  PPI, he suffered from asthma. The terms and conditions  of 
the policy say that he wouldnt have been covered if hed tried to make a claim for this 
condition. But through his representatives, Mr H told us that he hadnt  taken  any time off 
work because of asthma and it didnt affect his day to day living.  So I dont think its likely  
that he would have thought hed need to make a claim because of it. With all of this in mind, I 
dont think this pre-existing medical  condition would have put Mr H off taking the cover out. 
I havent seen  anything unusual about Mr Hs employment circumstances that would have 
stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed to. Taking everything into account, 
I think this policy probably was suitable  for his needs. 
BOS still had to give Mr H enough  information about his PPI policy  so he could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading. Its possible BOS didnt tell Mr H everything it should have done. But I dont think  
more or better information would have put him off buying the cover.  He chose  to buy PPI so I 
think he probably wanted this sort of policy. And overall, I think it probably would have been 
helpful for him if he lost his job. 
With all of that in mind,  BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  BOS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
The 2003  sale 
I turn now to the policy sold in 2003. 
Again, Ive looked at whether Mr H would  have known this policy  was optional and he didnt  
have to buy it if he didnt  want  it. Its not entirely clear to me how this policy  was sold. So Ive 
considered what  we know about  how BOS  conducted its telephone sales,  as well as face to 
face sales from that time. 
I havent been given any documentation  from the point of sale for this PPI policy.  But from 
what we know about the way BOS  sold these policies either face to face or on the telephone,  
(and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary from Mr H) I think  its likely that it would 
have been made clear  to him that the PPI was optional and he didnt have to buy it if he 
didnt want it. 
Ref: DRN56465003This type of policy involved selecting different elements of the PPI. I can see that Mr H chose 
cover for unemployment, accident or sickness.  He declined life and critical illness cover.  This 
suggests there was an element of discussion between Mr H and BOS  about which  part of 
the policy he wanted.  So I dont think the PPI would have been added  without  his consent. 
Ive treated this sale as an advised  sale. So BOS had to make sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr Hs needs. 
In 2003, Mr H was working  in a different job to that in 1998. But he told us that he was only 
entitled to statutory sick pay from his employer if he was sick. This PPI policy  would have 
covered his mortgage payments for up to 24 months for each claim if Mr H was unwell or if 
he was made redundant. So I think it offered protection over and above  the means he would  
have received from his employer  if he couldnt work. 
Mr H told us that he had some savings he could have used to pay his mortgage  if he was out 
of work. And again, I accept that was probably  the case. But I repeat what  I said above in 
that this mortgage  was secured on Mr Hs home. And the consequences of missing 
repayments put that home at risk. If his mortgage was protected, I think  Mr H could have 
used his savings  for his other essential  outgoings  if he couldnt work. 
I know that Mr H had asthma when he took this policy  out. And this cover  wouldnt have 
covered him for that condition either.  But for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  think that 
Mr H would have thought it was likely hed have to make a claim for asthma.  And I dont 
think it would  have  put him off buying PPI. Similarly, I dont think  there  was anything unusual 
about Mr Hs new job that would have stopped him from making a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
Again, its possible  that BOS didnt tell Mr H everything it should  have  done  about the PPI. 
But for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think more or better information about the 
policy would have put Mr H off buying  it.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr H some of the cost of the PPI back. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand  BOS  has already paid this to Mr H. 
my final decision
1998 sale 
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
2003 sale 
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.  
Ref: DRN56465004Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5646500