K822xComplaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mrs H was contacted  by a company, Ill refer to it as M, which supplied and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a subsequent  sales meeting  at her home Mrs H agreed  to enter 
into a contract with M for it to supply  and install a solar panel  system. To fund this Mrs H also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF).
Mrs H made  a claim under section 75 (s75)  of the CCA. Mrs H said that M had told her that 
the solar panel  system would be self-funded and the monthly loan repayments to BPF 
would be more than covered by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and any savings she would 
make on her electricity bills by using the electricity generated by the solar panels  rather  than 
buying it from her energy  provider. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly  loan 
repayments had been considerably higher.
BPF looked into the complaint. In its final response letter  it said that it was unable to give 
Mrs H an answer  to her complaint. Because of this she referred her complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, BPF made  an offer of compensation to resolve Mrs Hs 
complaint. It said it had calculated the potential savings and income to Mrs H from the solar  
panels over the term of the loan. It said it had then recalculated the loan to ensure that she 
would pay no more  than that. As Mrs H had refinanced her BPF loan with another provider it 
also agreed to refund  her a proportion of that interest and pay her £100 for any trouble and 
upset caused.
One of our investigators  looked in the offer put forward by BPF. She felt that the offer was 
fair. Mrs H didnt  agree. She also raised  concerns  about pigeon infestation.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  referred  to me.
Since our investigator issued their view, BPF has slightly increased its offer by including  8% 
simple interest on any overpayments that were made to its loan.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says that she was cold-called by M, and during a subsequent  sales meeting at her 
home told that the solar panel  system would be entirely self-financing.  As neither BPF nor 
Mrs H dispute that the benefits of the solar panels  were misrepresented  to her this decision 
will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
Ref: DRN56170472one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
The offer of compensation put forward by BPF is to put Mrs H in a position where the solar  
panels are self-funding over the original  loan term. Its offer to do this includes recalculation  
of the loan she had with BPF and also to offer her a proportion of the interest she has been 
charged on the new loan when she refinanced.
Ive considered each  element of the offer put forward by BPF.
Self-funding offer
Mrs H has said that she wouldnt have entered into the contract  with M if she had known that 
the solar panel  system wouldnt be self-funding. So, Ive considered  whether it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs H back in the position  she would have been in if there had been 
no misrepresentation. This would involve BPF arranging for the solar panels  to be removed 
from her home and to refund any money  she has paid minus  any benefits  she has received.
I dont think it would  be fair or proportionate  to require  the removal of the solar panels  from 
her home. Rather, I think the fair outcome here is to put Mrs H in a position  where  the solar 
panel system is self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mrs H to keep the 
solar panels,  Im satisfied  that she will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT 
payments going  forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has finished).
Ive carefully considered  the methodology that BPF has submitted to this service to calculate  
the total benefits of the solar panel  system. This methodology is based on the actual 
performance and estimated future  performance of Mrs Hs solar panels.  
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mrs Hs solar 
panel system, it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by the solar panels  that she is expected to 
use or self-consume, rather than buying  electricity from her energy provider. Ive considered  
this, along with the other assumptions  used by BPF including  electricity price inflation, the 
degradation rate and the estimated retail  price index (RPI). Im of the view that these  
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation. 
By recalculating the original loan that Mrs H had, to ensure it is no more  than the estimated  
benefits she will receive, BPF has worked  out that she has paid more than she should have 
done. So, its offer includes  refunding this overpayment to her with 8% simple  interest. I 
consider this to be fair as Mrs H has been  deprived  of the additional  overpayments and the 
8% simple  interest is to compensate her for this period of time.
Im satisfied that the offer put forward by BPF to make Mrs Hs solar panel system  self-
funding over the term of the original loan is fair. So, Ive gone  on to consider its offer to 
refund a proportion  of the interest  she was charged when she refinanced.
Refinanced loan
Ref: DRN56170473Mrs H has said that when  she realised  the solar  panel system benefits werent covering the 
cost of the monthly loan repayments,  she decided  to refinance the BPF loan with another  
lender with a lower  interest rate. She also borrowed additional funds at the same  time for 
some home improvements. 
BPF has said it has worked out the proportion of interest that Mrs H has been charged  on 
her new loan that relates to the amount she used to pay off the BPF loan. It has offered to 
refund this amount of interest to her.
I consider this to be fair and reasonable as Im satisfied that if Mrs Hs solar panel system  
had been self-funding, as she was led to believe, I think  it is unlikely that she would have 
refinanced the BPF loan. This is because her monthly loan repayments would have been 
met by the FIT income and savings generated which is what  she had agreed to when she 
entered into the contract with M.
As the solar panel system  wasnt self-funding  Mrs H has incurred additional interest  from the 
additional amount she borrowed to settle  her BPF loan. Im satisfied that BPF has 
recognised this and its offer to refund her the proportion of interest  that she will be charged 
on the amount  she refinanced to be fair in the circumstances.
Other considerations
Ive considered the other points that Mrs H has raised with this service including  pigeon  
infestation and any costs she may incur at the end of the lifetime of her solar panel system.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the offer put forward by BPF represents fair compensation 
and I wont be asking  it to increase  its offer.
Summary
In summary,  Im satisfied  the offer of compensation put forward  by BPF is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and takes  account  of all the available  
evidence I have discussed above.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mrs H first 
complained to BPF that means her complaint should  have been upheld.  The fact that it didnt 
undoubtedly caused her trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award  of £100 to 
cover this.
Ref: DRN56170474My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Hs complaint  should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it I 
require Clydesdale  Financial Service Limited  to:
allow Mrs H to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mrs H from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so that she pays no more than this. Where  possible, it 
should use her FIT statements and electricity  bills to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of settlement,
refund  Mrs H the proportion of interest that she has been charged on her new loan 
that relates to the amount she used to settle the BPF loan; and,
pay Mrs H £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mrs H how much its taken off. 
It should also give her a certificate  showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax 
back from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN5617047