K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Virgin Money plcs refusal to refund  him for a dishwasher purchased 
using his credit card account with it.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by his wife, but for simplicity I have referred to all 
submissions from Mr Ss representative as being made by Mr S.
background
In December 2018 Mr S used his credit card to purchase a commercial  dishwasher from a 
supplier, a limited  company, who I will call A. On the day the dishwasher  was to be 
delivered, Mr S realised that on ordering the dishwasher he had made  a mistake about the 
delivery address.  The dishwasher was going to be delivered to his home address but Mr S 
wanted it delivered to the address of a business  he has an interest in instead.  He tried to put 
this right,  by speaking  to the delivery  driver and then afterwards A itself, only to hear nothing  
from A about this for number of months. He told us he chased A during this period 
nonetheless.
In the meantime Mr S bought a different dishwasher. So, he no longer wanted the original 
dishwasher from A. But to his surprise, and out of the blue, the dishwasher was delivered to 
the address of his business. And a member  of staff accepted the delivery by mistake. Mr S 
wants to reject the dishwasher and get his money back. Also,  Mr S is unhappy with Virgin 
Moneys complaint  handling. 
Virgin Money didnt  agree that it had to help Mr S any further. It looked at whether it could 
get Mr S his money back  via a process  called chargeback. However, when it looked at this, it 
said A had delivered  the dishwasher as it was contracted to do. And because of this there 
were no valid grounds  for a chargeback. 
Dissatisfied Mr S came to our service.
At this point Virgin Money told us the dishwasher  had been  ordered by Mr Ss business not 
Mr S. This business is a limited company and he is one of the directors.  Further the name on 
the invoice was the limited companys name.  On this basis, it didnt agree that Mr S was a 
party to the contract  with A. It had been looking at whether Mr S might  have any rights under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA  1974)  but it concluded he didnt 
because he had not contracted with A. But as a goodwill gesture it offered Mr S £200 
because its complaint handling  could  have been  better.
We asked Mr S about these points.  And why he had asked for the dishwasher to be 
delivered to his business address not his home address. Mr S responded to say that the 
commercial dishwasher was intended to be used by him in his personal capacity. That said 
he also intended to use it at a later stage, for commercial purposes too. He told us he asked 
for the dishwasher  to be delivered  to his business  address  rather than his home address as 
that was more convenient for him as he wasnt going to be in to accept delivery.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he thought  there was no valid chargeback reason on balance. So it followed a 
chargeback would not have succeeded most likely. On that basis he thought Virgin Money  
had acted appropriately in relation to the chargeback.
Ref: DRN53113702Further, he thought  that the contracting party in relation to the contract  with A was the limited 
company of which Mr S is a director. On that basis  he concluded that in the circumstances 
there was no valid relationship in place that would allow Mr Ss claim to succeed  and it 
followed he thought  Virgin Moneys  stance was fair and reasonable.
Virgin Money accepted  our investigators  recommendation,  Mr S did not. In short,  he 
indicated that he was disappointed.  He repeated  his previous stance in more detail. In 
particular he reiterated  he thought  the chargeback would have succeeded and he thought 
the chargeback  reason he could rely on was non delivery. 
Further Mr S repeated that the dishwasher  was bought for personal use using  his personal 
credit card account. He told us all of this meant he was the contracting  party.  
Moreover, he underlined that both the chargeback scheme and the CCA  1974 were meant to 
protect consumers from unfair  commercial  practices.  He wanted to invoke that protection  
here. He suggested  the reviews about A that he had read suggested its commercial 
practices were flawed.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of Mr Ss complaint. I do not intend to uphold  it. Please let me 
explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
the chargeback
The chargeback process  allows credit  card users to ask for a transaction  to be reversed if 
there's a problem  with goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed  method of getting a refund. The process is 
limited to specific criteria.    
If I am to order Virgin Money   to refund all or part of the cost of the dishwasher, I must  be 
satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback  claim under the 
Ref: DRN53113703chargeback regulations. These regulations are created by a third party, MasterCard  and 
Virgin Money has to follow them if it wants to initiate a chargeback.
MasterCard is an international organisation which facilitates  payments between different 
banks in the same and different countries. Its regulations seek  to maintain a balance  
between merchants supplying goods and services,  customers  of these merchants, and the 
banks acting for each  of them. Accordingly, in the case of the purchase and supply of goods, 
the regulations  only permit a chargeback to the extent that there is a valid chargeback 
reason.
Mr S suggests that the chargeback should  have succeeded for the chargeback reason that 
the dishwasher was not delivered.  The difficulty is that is was, twice,  once when it was 
actually with the delivery driver and Mr S asked for the delivery address to be changed, 
rather at the last minute. And then there  was a second delivery, albeit after a 2.5 month gap. 
I recognise that Mr S told Virgin Money  to initiate a chargeback before the second delivery. 
But I think the way that the situation would have  been looked at under the chargeback rules 
was that the initial delivery had been  prevented  by Mr Ss intervention and all that followed 
stemmed from that. I think most  likely, A would not have been held to account  for that.
That said,  delayed delivery can be a valid chargeback reason. I think the parties do agree 
there was a delay  of a number of months before the second delivery happened.  But I dont 
think that this helps Mr S. The chargeback rules dont seem to cover  the situation  where  the 
delay was caused by a last minute  change of delivery address by the customer. Even  if they 
did the relevant  timelines had not been exceeded  for the purposes of the chargeback rules. 
In the circumstances, I think A would have defended any chargeback raised  on this ground  
too, and that the chargeback would most  likely have failed.
For all of these reasons, I have no fair and reasonable basis  for saying  Virgin Money 
mishandled Mr Ss chargeback request.
Mr Ss role in the contract with A
Mr S suggests that he had a contract with A and that it was breached.  This is relevant here 
because Section 75 provides that, under a very specific set of circumstances, a consumer 
may seek to recover money  paid under  a contract  with a supplier from their credit  provider  
where there  has been a breach of contract  by the supplier.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding what is a fair way to resolve Mr Ss complaint I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim  for breach of contract. Our service is 
an informal alternative to the courts.
Before I can look at the substance of this part of Mr Ss complaint that is if the contract  was 
breached, I have to first look at whether he was a party  to the contract at all. This is because  
for him to have rights  under Section 75 there  must be a very specific  relationship in place 
that is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Where he is the debtor, Virgin Money  is 
the creditor and A is the supplier. But I think no such valid relationship  exists.  
Ref: DRN53113704Mr S tells us that he was the contracting party here. However the wider circumstances of the 
complaint suggest  otherwise. Specifically, A describes itself as a supplier to commercial, 
professional and industrial  customers. As terms and conditions  say every sale is 
considered a business to business contract.  The invoice was in the name  of Mr Ss 
business. The goods were of a type used by commercial customers. This all suggests to me 
the contracting party was Mr Ss limited company, not him personally.
The fact that Mr S used  his personal credit card to settle the debt, does not, by itself,  mean  
Mr S thereby  became a party to the contract  as he suggests. Rather  I think  in making the 
payment, Mr S was merely discharging his companys  liability  to pay fees under the contract 
it had with A. But the contracting party was Mr Ss company, not Mr S, as I have said 
already.
It follows from what Ive said, that I have no proper basis  for saying  that Virgin Money  acted 
unreasonably in relation to this part of his complaint.
complaint handling
Mr S was mainly unhappy with the issues I have mentioned  above.  But he was also 
dissatisfied with Virgin Moneys complaint handling. And as far as I can see, although  he has 
not mentioned  it recently, he does still want us to look into this. 
Im sorry  to disappoint him, but I cant look at that part of his complaint. Thats because 
complaints about  how a complaint has been dealt with simply are not something  that falls 
within the remit of this service. I realise this may be somewhat disappointing for Mr S as he 
laid some  emphasis on this issue when  he first brought his complaint to us. But, he can take 
this issue no further with our service.
Virgin Money has offered  Mr S £200 for how it dealt with his complaint. If he wants to accept 
this offer,  he needs  to contact it directly.
But for the reasons Ive set out above  I think  I have no proper basis to ask Virgin Money to 
take any further action in relation to his complaint.
I recognise that Mr S may well be further  disappointed to find that he is not getting  the result  
he clearly believes he is entitled  to under the chargeback  rules  and in relation to his 
complaint about  his claim under Section 75. But while he is correct  that these provisions are 
meant to provide  protection  to consumers that does not mean that any complaint he makes 
where he relies on them  will automatically  have to succeed.
I take on board that he is unhappy  with the behaviour of A. But A is not a party to this 
complaint. And I have  explained already why I think Virgin Money need do nothing  further in 
relation to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Ref: DRN53113705Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5311370