K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium insurance policy taken out in 2008. The policy  
provided Mr R with life and critical illness cover. And he says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) 
mis-sold it. 
BoS was trading as Capital Bank at the time. To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to BoS 
throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr R says he doesnt remember  the policy being sold to him. BoS has confirmed the policy  
was sold over the phone, a few days after Mr R signed the hire purchase  agreement.  BoS 
has given me a copy of the call script  it says would  have been in use at the time. Looking  at 
this, Mr R would have  been given the option of taking out the life and critical illness  cover. 
Nothing Ive seen suggests the call script  wasnt used at the time.  So, on balance, I think 
BoS made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the policy and that he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr R  which means  it had to check  that it was 
right for him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was 
suitable for him overall.  Mr R wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover and it looks like he had a need for the critical illness  cover
I say this because  BoS has given me a copy of the demands and needs statement that was 
completed over the phone when Mr R agreed  to take out the cover. It says Mr R didnt  have 
any existing critical illness provisions.  I acknowledge that it does look like he had existing 
life cover.  But looking at the products BoS had available at the time, it wasnt possible for   
Mr R to take out critical illness cover on its own, without the life cover. 
In the demands  and needs statement, Mr R has indicated he had no existing critical illness  
cover available to him. The loan was for just over £22,000 over three years,  so I think Mr R 
wouldve thought  it sensible  to protect the loan in the unfortunate  event he suffered a critical 
illness. Mr R had no savings available at the time, so had no other means  of repaying the 
loan if he needed  to repay it quickly.  Because  of this, regardless of what life cover  Mr R 
already had in place,  I dont think the recommendation for critical  illness and life cover  was 
unsuitable overall.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr R about  the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And for the 
same reasons I think the policy  was suitable, I dont  think better information about it wouldve 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt  need to refund everything  
Mr R paid for the cover. 
Ref: DRN59206072But BoS has offered  to give Mr R back some  of the cost of the policy.  And I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5920607