K821x#15complaint
Mr G and his mother  Ms G have complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited
misled them  when Mr G paid the costs of a claim he made under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr G bought a car insurance policy with Admiral under  a multicar discount plan. His mother,
Ms G held a policy under  the same  multicar  discount plan and was a named driver under
Mr Gs policy.
I set out the background  in detail in a provisional decision I sent to both parties on 25 
September 2019. In summary  Mr G made a claim in March 2018. At renewal in November 
2018 he was unhappy that Admiral said hed earned  four years  No Claims Bonus (NCB) 
when he believed hed earned five after it settled  a total loss claim under his policy.  
Mr G bought back the costs of the claim in November 2018. So Admiral refunded the 
balance of the yearly  premium and backdated the cancellation of the policy to April 2018. 
Admiral had been unclear in some calls between Ms G and Mr G which had caused 
confusion. For this it paid compensation of £100.  But it said Mr Gs NCB correctly  stood at 
four years as he hadnt earned  a full fifth years  bonus.
Mr and Ms G told us it wanted Admiral to refund the premium in full, reinstate Mr Gs NCB to 
five years and compensate them for the distress and inconvenience Admiral  had caused.  
Mr G said he didnt receive  the balance of the premium refund Admiral promised. 
Our investigator thought that overall  Admiral had done enough to resolve their complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree. 
In my provisional decision I thought some of Mr and Ms Gs complaints should be upheld. So 
I made  a number of recommendations  for Admiral to follow to put things right.
Mr G has accepted my provisional decision. Admiral said its received it, but hasnt provided 
any comments. 
So the case has been returned to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr G and Ms G accept my provisional 
decision  and Admiral  hasnt commented  my final decision  is along the same lines.  
Ive listened to all of the call recordings which Mr and Ms G has also been  provided with. I 
provided a detailed account  in my provisional  decision of what was discussed in each call 
which I dont intend to repeat here.
Mr G bought a replacement car in April 2018 and insured it elsewhere. Mr G intended to 
pursue the manufacturer  separately for his losses as his car was damaged  by an electrical 
fire. There were times during the calls when Mr G and Ms G assumed Mr Gs NCB would be 
five years once Mr G bought back the claim  and Admiral didnt correct them.  
Ref: DRN53200592But there was a key call between Admiral and Mr G when I thought  it had been clear  that 
Mr Gs NCB  would remain at four years. This was just before Mr G decided  to buy back  the 
claim.
Mr G said that Admiral  never told him it would record the claim as a non fault claim. He said
if it had, he wouldnt have  paid. He believes he was out of pocket  as he paid more  for his 
insurance elsewhere. But if Mr G hadnt paid the claimed costs,  the claim would
have either  remained  open as a fault claim  or settled as a fault claim if Admirals  costs
werent recovered in full. This is the correct process  that insurers follow in the industry  for
claims. Ms G and Mr G wanted Admiral to close the claim before the renewal date of the 
multicar discount policy in November  2018.
And if the claim remained open  or settled as a fault claim, this means Mr Gs NCB would
have reduced from four years to two at renewal in November 2018  applying the step  back
process in Admirals policy.
So because Admirals  claim  was open until November 2018   when Mr G decided  to pay the
claim costs   I think his claims history would have  been correctly recorded  as two years  NCB
 due to the then open claim. Mr Gs NCB wasnt protected.  So I dont think  Admiral  is
responsible for any difference in premium Mr G paid in April 2018 elsewhere with a reduced
NCB. But  once Admiral  closed the claim in November 2018 - Mr G should have been in a
position to let his current insurer know of the change. If his current insurer decided not to
adjust Mr Gs premium  to reflect the NCB reinstatement to four years, this would be an issue
Mr G could raise  against his current insurer.
However, Ive looked at the NCB proof  letter Admiral  sent Mr G in November 2018. It said
hed earned four years NCB  but gave  an expiry date of the policy as November 2018. In
reply to the investigator, Admiral  said;
I can confirm as Mr G had 4 years no claims  bonus and didnt occur his 5th year in
2018, his 2018 documents would show  as 4 years.
But Admiral  had provided a partial refund to Mr G and said he hadnt earned  a further years
NCB because his policy cancelled in April 2018.  So I dont think  the letter Admiral sent Mr G 
is correct. I think  it should  show that Mr G had earned fours NCB from the cancellation  date 
of April 2018. Mr G said hes paid a full years premium for a policy elsewhere from April 
2018 to April 2019. So  assuming no claim was made during this time  Mr G should have 
by April 2019 earned five years  NCB.  This is why I think Admirals NCB proof letter is 
incorrect to say Mr G earned four years as at November  2018  as it means  Mr G has lost 
out.
The letter also said that the claim costs were £561.92. However, I think it should  have  read
that the claim costs  were  zero  as Mr G had paid them. Admiral said;
In relation to the claim being classed as notification only, this would only be
applicable if no claim was made. However, as a claim was made and payment raised
this would show as a non-fault incident. It would however show  that costs  have been
paid back.
Weve checked  the CUE  database  to see how Admiral recorded the claim. This is a
database most insurers use to check a customers  claims history and is designed to help
prevent fraud. 
Ref: DRN53200593This shows that Mr Gs NCB was allowed under  the incident  which I think is
correct. However, Admiral has recorded claims costs  which  I think  isnt correct  as its
recovered all of its claims costs. I think it should have closed the claim as a
notification/incident only and to show zero claim costs.
So  I think Admiral hasnt  closed the claim correctly.  I understand Mr G didnt buy a policy
with Admiral in November 2018  and continued with the policy he bought elsewhere until
renewal in April 2019.
If Admiral had provided Mr G with a correct  NCB  proof letter in November 2018, I think  Mr G
would have been in a position to let his current insurer know about the closed claim sooner.
We asked Mr G to provide evidence by way of his policy  documents  from April 2018 to show  
what impact Admirals error had on the premium he paid. But Mr G hasnt provided  them.  
Hes told us the difference in premium came to about £240.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I cant consider Mr Gs claimed loss of £240 
without any evidence to show  what he paid for in April 2018   and that he paid more 
because of Admirals  errors.  The same  applies for any premium Mr G paid at renewal in April 
2019.
Mr G said he hasnt received the premium  refund.  He provided us with a copy of an email he
sent to his bank  in March 2019.  Mr G said his bank has told him they cant  trace the refund
to the card details Admiral  said it used.
Admiral provided Mr G with a reference from its accounts department to give to the bank as
Admiral said the payment  left their account  by 14 November 2018.  We asked Mr G to 
provide a copy bank  statement for the account in question  to show  the refund didnt reach 
the account. But Mr G hasnt provided  this.
Based on what Ive seen,  I cant conclude that Admiral hasnt paid the refund.
In summary  I think Admiral hasnt dealt  with the closure of Mr Gs claim correctly. I think it
should have done the following  in November 2018:
Updated CUE to close the claim as a notification/incident only with zero claim 
costs and NCB allowed at four years.
Provide Mr G with a letter confirming  his NCB  at four years  from the cancellation 
date of April 2018  and zero claim costs for the March 2018 incident.
If Admiral had correctly closed the claim,  I think Mr G would  have been  able to provide the
correct NCB  letter to his current  insurer sooner  and asked it to adjust his premium.
So I think Admiral has caused further distress  and inconvenience. For this, I think it should
pay Mr G a further £150 compensation. This is to reflect the further time and trouble hes
spent trying to resolve this issue - and the delay preventing him from resolving the NCB and
premium issue  since  November 2018  with his (then) insurer.
As Ive said,  Mr G can let his insurer from April 2018 know that the claim has been  updated.
If hes unhappy with the adjustment  or lack of - in relation  to his premium from April 2018,
he can raise his concerns  with them. And if he remains  unhappy, he can contact us to raise
a new complaint.
Ref: DRN53200594my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Provide Mr G with a letter confirming  his NCB  at fours years  from April 2018 and
confirm zero claim costs for the notification/incident  only in March 2018. Mr G can
then provide this letter  to the insurer from April 2018 to adjust his premium if
appropriate.
Update all internal and external databases  including  CUE to show the March  
2018 claim as a notification/incident  only with zero claim costs.
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused by 
failing to correctly  record the March 2018  claim when it closed it in November 
2018.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date
on which we tell it Mr G and Ms G accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off.
It should also give Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5320059