K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a car he had on finance  with Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi  Capital)  
was faulty at the point of supply. Hed like to be allowed to reject  it and terminate  his finance 
agreement.
background
Mr W took receipt of a used vehicle  in December 2017. He financed  the deal through  a fixed  
sum loan agreement with Hitachi  Capital and when supplied  the car had completed  almost 
77,000 miles and was eight  years  old.
Shortly afterwards, Mr W had issues with the clutch so a new one was fitted by the 
dealership under warranty. He drove  the vehicle for a further 3,000 miles before  it broke 
down again, in May 2018. The rescue company  said this was due to a large oil leak.
Mr W contacted  Hitachi  Capital in June 2018, to tell them the engine had now seized and the 
vehicle wasnt drivable. The dealership suggested  this was because  the car had been  driven  
without oil. So Hitachi Capital  arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. He 
agreed that the fault had most likely been caused because  the car had been  driven  with no 
oil in it and he said it was most likely the fault had developed more recently, as the car 
wouldnt have been able to travel the mileage it had, if the fault had been there from the 
start. It was noted that the car had completed  an additional 1,621 miles since  it had been  
recovered in May.
Hitachi Capital said they didnt believe the car could have been  driven  as far as it had if it 
had a problem  at the point  of supply and they thought the engine  failure, that had now 
occurred, was due to Mr W driving  the car with no oil. So they didnt think  it would be 
reasonable for them to take responsibility for the repair.
But Mr W disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought it 
was fair to suggest  that the car had most  likely been  driven by Mr W with no oil in it. She 
noted that the car had completed additional mileage  since it was recovered for the oil leak 
and that the independent engineer had suggested  the fault probably occurred within  the last 
1,000 miles. So she thought it was most likely  it hadnt been the result of anything that was 
wrong with the car at the point of supply;  after which Hitachi  Capitals responsibility for the 
quality of the car ended.  She also considered whether the car had proved suitably durable  
but she thought it had. She explained that the car had completed nearly 77,000  miles at 
inception and that would suggest it had a higher risk of breakdown.  The investigator went on 
to consider Mr Ws account that hed noticed warning lights  on the vehicle when he went on 
a test drive. She explained that relevant legislation would hold him responsible  for any faults 
hed identified or were  brought  to his attention prior to sale.  But she wasnt  satisfied that 
these lights were anything  to do with the subsequent  problem anyway and she thought it 
likely they were related  to the clutch, which had failed very shortly afterwards. So the 
investigator didnt  think  Hitachi Capital needed to take any further action.
But Mr W disagreed and he asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52599192I think its most likely  the engine failure  happened as a result of the car being  driven  with no 
oil in it and as such, I dont think it would be fair to hold Hitachi  Capital responsible. I know  
thats something Mr W will be disappointed to hear so please  let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a fixed sum loan agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Hitachi Capital  is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put things right.
But Hitachi  Capitals responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
And here I think its most  likely that the engine has failed  because theres been no oil in the 
car and that cant have  been the case at the point  of supply as, if it was, I dont think  it would 
be likely  the vehicle would have been  able to travel over 4,600.
The independent engineer, whos an expert in these matters, has suggested  the problem 
has happened more  recently and its clear  that there was an oil leak in May and Mr W 
subsequently drove  an additional 1,600  in the car. So I think its most likely the problem 
developed over this period and the car has been  driven without the appropriate lubrication.
And, as the car has been driven without lubrication,  I dont  think  it would be appropriate to 
consider it hasnt been durable. I think its fair to say that durability  can only be ascertained if 
the vehicle has been maintained correctly. And here that doesnt appear to have been  the 
case. The car wasnt being  lubricated  and there would therefore be excessive wear and 
temperature in the engine.
Ive also considered what Mr W said about the warning lights  that he says were coming on 
during his test drive.  I dont think thats  likely to have  been anything to do with the engine  
problem the car is now suffering from. Its not disputed  that there was a clutch  problem, so I 
think its most likely  to have been  to do with that. And its clear that if Mr W had identified  an 
issue with the car before  hed entered  into the agreement, he had accepted  that condition 
and it wouldnt be fair to then hold the business responsible  for it.
So overall, I dont  think Ive been  provided  with sufficient evidence to suggest the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply and I therefore dont think Hitachi  Capital need to 
take any further action.
Ref: DRN52599193my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5259919