K820x#14complaint
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt update  their records 
about a change of address. As a result they didnt receive letters  about their buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage coming to the end of its term. This has meant theyve been unable to extend the 
term before  this happened  and are now unable to get a replacement  mortgage with 
Barclays. 
background
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 took out an interest only BTL mortgage with Barclays  in January 
2008. The borrowing  was over ten years.
Mr G1 says he wrote  to Barclays in April 2014 to update the correspondence address for the 
mortgage. Barclays says this letter was not received  so the address was not updated.
Barclays wrote to Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 on 5 July and 17 December 2017 to let them 
know their mortgage was due to mature.  It says it also sent a redemption  statement in 
January 2018,  detailing  the outstanding balance that would need to be repaid in order to 
redeem the mortgage. A further letter was sent to Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 on 28 March  
2018, again notifying them of the outstanding balance that was now due. All of these letters 
were sent to Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2s old correspondence address.
Barclays then began  attempting  to call Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 in April 2018 and was able 
to speak to Mr G1 on 13 April 2018 by telephone. Mr G1 said he didnt  know  that the 
mortgage had matured and would look to re-mortgage. Their correspondence  address 
details were updated at the same time and a complaint was made about the address details 
not being updated previously.
Mr G1 and Mrs G applied for a re-mortgage  with Barclays. They  discussed this with a 
mortgage adviser who explained  that one of Barclays lending criteria was that at least one of 
the applicants  had to have an income  on their own over a certain  threshold. Mr G1 and 
Mrs G did not meet  these  criteria. So Barclays  didnt take the application forward. The 
adviser also explained an exception to Barclays criteria would only be considered if it was 
recommended to resolve the complaint.
In response to the complaint Barclays said it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.  Mr G1, 
Mrs G and Mr G2 then asked  our service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator looked into this and didnt think Barclays  had done  anything wrong. He 
thought there wasnt anything  to show that Barclays received  the letter about the change of 
address in 2014 so didnt think it had made an error  by not updating its records.  And as a 
result he didnt think Barclays had made  a mistake when writing to the address it had for 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2. He said that while it mightve been  helpful if Barclays had tried to 
contact Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 by a different method, he didnt think  it was obliged  to do 
so. And he also noted that Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 wouldve been aware when  taking the 
mortgage out that it was scheduled to end after ten years  as this was what was agreed 
and clearly set out in the mortgage  offer. 
Ref: DRN51414452Regarding the declined  application, the investigator  felt Barclays hadnt  done anything 
wrong. Neither Mr G1 nor Mrs G, who applied for the new mortgage, met the required 
income threshold at the point they applied. So he felt Barclays  acted fairly in assessing  the 
application and making its decision in line with its lending criteria.  Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 
said that Mr G1s income was higher prior to the mortgage ending. But the investigator 
thought it was unlikely the outcome of the application wouldve been any different  had the 
application been made before the mortgage had ended  as income was only one of the 
factors that Barclays would need to consider.
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 disagreed with the investigators opinion.  They  maintained that 
theyd informed Barclays of their address change in 2014 and that other  problems theyd 
encountered with Barclays led them to believe that the letter had been received but ignored. 
And they still felt that this error had ultimately  prevented them from taking a new mortgage 
deal as they believe their application wouldve been  successful if it had been  processed 
before the mortgage ended.
As Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 disagreed with the investigators opinion the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the change of address, Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 have said that from meetings 
in branch it understands that Barclays uses multiple different systems, so its likely  an error 
was made  logging the letter. Barclays has confirmed  it does use different systems for 
different purposes. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest that the letter  was logged on one 
system, and then omitted from another. Barclays has no record  of receiving a letter  in April 
2014. Its sent us a copy of its contact notes and no incoming  letters  were logged  around 
that time.   
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 have said that alternatively they think the letter  was likely received 
but ignored. It isnt clear  what has happened and there is no way to know for sure what 
happened to the letter Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 have referred to  which  we havent seen a 
copy of. In situations like this it is my role to decide what  I think is most likely to have 
happened, based on the information  I have.  And having thought about this I cant  reasonably 
say I think it is likely Barclays simply ignored  the instruction. I think its more likely  that for 
whatever reason Barclays did not receive  the letter. 
Based on this, I cant reasonably say Barclays did anything wrong by continuing to send 
letters about  the mortgage to the last address it held. Its unfortunate that this meant Mr G1, 
Mrs G and Mr G2 didnt receive information  about  the mortgage  reaching the end of its term 
before this happened. But I dont think this was due to an error  by Barclays. And Im 
conscious that Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 wouldve been aware  how long the mortgage was 
due to run when they agreed it as this was set out in the original mortgage offer.  So any 
reminders would only have confirmed information they shouldve already been  aware  of.
Ref: DRN51414453Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 have said that Barclays shouldve  used  alternative  methods to 
contact them  earlier. The BTL mortgage Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 held was unregulated, 
meaning there were  no regulatory requirements  for Barclays to correspond  in a specific  way 
at a specific time. How it chose to communicate with Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 was a matter 
for its judgement in line with its standard processes. So while contacting  them by phone  or 
email sooner  than they did couldve been useful, and mayve meant they had confirmation  of 
the term ending  sooner,  I dont think I can say Barclays had to do so. So in terms of how 
Barclays communicated with them about the end of the term, I dont think  it has done 
anything wrong.
Turning to Barclays decision not to agree to the request for a re-mortgage, again I dont 
think it has done anything  wrong. Lenders  can exercise their commercial  discretion when 
deciding whether and on what terms theyre prepared  to lend to their customers   and set 
their own criteria for assessing applications. Barclays  has provided  evidence that one of its 
criteria for buy-to-let lending is that at least one of the applicants  must have a sole income  
above a set amount per annum. Its criteria also set out what can be considered  part of that 
income  with the rental income  from the property  the mortgage is for not being counted. 
When Mr G1 and Mrs G contacted Barclays to discuss a new mortgage neither of their 
incomes were above the required amount. So I think Barclays  was entitled to decline the 
application. 
Mr G1 and Mrs G have said they think Barclays shouldve shown some flexibility  in 
assessing this application. Theyve also said that usually, at the end of a fixed term, a 
mortgage will revert to a variable rate, so it was unusual they were  being asked to repay it in 
full, and Barclays shouldve been  more understanding  in agreeing  to a term extension. When 
a fixed rate of interest comes to an end, if there  is time remaining  on the term of the 
mortgage then it is common  for the loan to then revert to a variable rate. But that isnt whats 
happened here. The mortgage as a whole reached  the end of its term. So Barclays  was 
entitled to ask for it to be repaid. And overall  I cant say that Barclays was required to do 
more or make  exceptions  to its lending criteria. 
Mr G1 and Mrs G have said that, if they had applied before the original mortgage  had 
expired then Mr G1s income  wouldve exceeded  the required amount as he was working  at 
that point. And they wouldve been  able to do this if their address had been updated 
correctly. As Ive already explained, I dont  think Barclays  made  an error in how it 
communicated with them about the end of the term and this is something they wouldve been 
aware of from when the mortgage was agreed.
But in any event I think its unlikely  the application  being made  earlier wouldve made a 
difference to the outcome. Barclays has confirmed that, if the mortgage was still running, the 
application to extend the term and take a new product, which  is what  Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr 
G2 have said they wouldve done, would  still have been subject to its lending  criteria. Which 
I think is reasonable. Mr G1 has said his income  was higher before the original mortgage 
ended. I havent seen  any evidence  of this but I dont doubt what he has told us. However,  
as our investigator explained,  the level of income of applicants was only one of a number of 
criteria that Barclays applies when assessing  applications. One of the others relates to the 
level of borrowing in relation to the value of the property  known as the loan to value ratio.  
Ref: DRN51414454Barclays has provided evidence that, for BTL mortgages, under its criteria the maximum it 
would be willing to lend is 75% of the value of the property. Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2s 
existing mortgage  had an outstanding balance of £50,000. So this is the amount theyd have 
been re-mortgaging or rearranging. And so, under the criteria  this would have needed  at 
most to have equated to 75% of the value of the property. But Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 have 
told us that, since  they were unable to agree a new deal with Barclays  or re-mortgage to 
another lender, theyve marketed the property for sale.  And theyve said the sale proceeds 
are unlikely to be enough  to repay the balance of the original mortgage, £50,000, in full. 
Based on this, it would  seem unlikely that the value of the property  wouldve been  enough to 
meet the required loan to value criteria. So it seems  unlikely  the new mortgage wouldve 
been agreed, even if it had been  applied for sooner.
So taking everything into account, and whilst I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2, I dont think Barclays has done anything  wrong  with how it has 
handled their account  and subsequent re-mortgage  application.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G1, Mrs G and 
Mr G2 to accept or reject my decision before 6 September  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141445