K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  didnt do anything to help her recover  
funds shes paid for a service she considers  unsatisfactory and that theyve failed to respond 
to her emails about dispute.
background
Miss B brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy at being able to get a response 
from Barclays to her concerns about  the payment shed made to a third party on 9 
December 2016.
Barclays said theyd set up a scam  claim on 6 February 2017 when Miss B first contacted  
them stating she was unhappy with the transaction. But the following day this claim was 
closed and considered to be a customer merchant dispute. Barclays  said this was due to 
there being no scheme currently  in place to judge  whether the service  provided has satisfied  
what was agreed between the parties. Barclays told us as a result of this they werent able to 
assist in recovery of the funds. So they wouldnt uphold the complaint or offer compensation 
as theyd handled Miss Bs concern correctly.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint. He thought Barclays should pay 
compensation of £150 for the poor service in not responding  to the update  requests Miss B 
had made  over a period of 17 months. But with regard to Barclays  not getting  Miss Bs 
money back from the service provider  he didnt think theyd done anything  wrong  as the 
provision of a substandard service (paid  for by bank transfer) wasnt  covered by either  S75 
or the chargeback remedies.
Barclays agreed with the investigators recommendation but Miss B didnt. She said she 
thought the investigator was going to be impartial but thought he hadnt been and had taken 
the side of Barclays.  She asked for her case to be escalated as a complaint as she wasnt 
consulted before the investigator put the proposal of £150 compensation to Barclays.  She 
did not see how this was fair. She said if she was asking for compensation that she thought  
fair she would  have put the complaint through herself at a figure she felt reasonable,  but the 
investigators actions without her consent  or consultation had now put her at a roadblock.
Miss B later clarified she didn't want to complain about the fact the investigator  advised 
Barclays to pay compensation of £150 without consulting her but she did want  her case  to 
go to an Ombudsman  to look at her complaint  again  because she wanted  compensation of 
£500 for her ignored emails.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion.  So I wont repeat that here.  Im afraid theres  not a great  deal I can add to 
what the investigators already told Miss B. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and 
I agree  with his analysis  and the overall outcome. Ill explain why I think that.
recovery of her funds
Ref: DRN58741812Miss Bs payment was a bank transfer.  Shes unhappy with the service she received and 
hasnt been able to resolve he dispute with the merchant. But Im afraid what Barclays have 
told her is correct. If this payment had been made on a debit card a possible recall under the 
chargeback procedure could have been claimed. And if under  a credit card Miss Bs rights 
under S75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974  could have been pursued.  But based  on the 
facts here I cant say the bank have done  anything wrong.
delays in communication
Its unacceptable that Miss B had to wait 17 months for a reply  from Barclays to understand 
what had been  done on 6 and 7 February 2017. I dont doubt its been a worry for her. But as 
the investigator has highlighted the late update  from Barclays didnt affect  the outcome of the 
refund request. Overall, I think the suggested  award of £150 is appropriate here.  Its line with 
our guidelines and the sort of award Id have made had it not been suggested.
Given how strongly Miss B feels about  whats happened in respect  of the transaction  she 
may want to pursue  the matter further through other routes and against other parties.  But my 
decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Barclays informally 
 can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss B.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Miss B £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by their delays in communicating with her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5874181