K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds actions concerning  a claim against 
his motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ws had the help of his daughter. But for ease Ill refer to her 
comments as being those of Mr W.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background 
Mr W bumped another car while leaving a tight parking space. He said the other car was 
unattended, although its occupants where  nearby and that neither car was damaged. But a 
claim was made against his policy, which Ageas  paid. At renewal Mr Ws premium increased  
significantly.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2019. For ease I've reproduced  my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  I'll partly uphold 
it.
settling claims
Mr Ws claim centres on Ageass decision to settle  a claim against his policy.  Mr W doesn't  
think it should have  done so. I should  say at the outset that its not my role to decide: 
whether or not an accident happened; whos at fault for it; or the extent, if any, of the 
damage or injury arising from an accident, as ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, 
like all motor policies, Mr Ws policy allows Ageas to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it 
doesnt require  Mr Ws consent  to decide  how to settle a claim and it may make  a decision 
that Mr W doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see its done so reasonably.
After it received a claim Ageas contacted Mr W. He didn't deny that he bumped  into the 
other car but he didnt believe he caused any damage. He added  that the car wasn't 
occupied at the time but described  the female passenger as putting something in the back 
seat.  
Ageas appointed an engineer to examine  Mr Ws car. The engineer  said Mr Ws car hadn't  
suffered any damage. So I can understand that Mr W might have thought there was no valid 
claim for Ageas to settle.
The owner of the other car claimed for damage  to their car through  their own policy  with 
another insurer. An engineer also inspected that car and confirmed that there had been 
some damage to it. The other insurer paid the claim for the damage to that car and then 
sought to recover  its outlay from Ageas. Although for reasons that aren't clear there was a 
significant delay  in this happening. But the delay seems to be at the other  insurers  end 
rather than because of anything Ageas did or didn't do.
In the meantime Ageas received a personal injury  claim from the female passenger. I can 
see why Mr W thinks that claim  must be fraudulent, as he said that the car was unoccupied 
Ref: DRN52115082at the time. But I've also noted that when Mr W initially spoke  with Ageas about the accident 
he said that the woman was putting something in the back seat.  So its possible that she 
could be considered to be occupying the car when it was bumped.  But I think Ageas should 
have done more to investigate the apparent discrepancy between Mr Ws account and the 
passengers claim for injury. 
Ageas didn't  investigate this matter further. It seems that, given the relatively  low cost of the 
claim, it made  a commercial decision to pay it rather than risk the additional expense  of 
further investigation and potentially defending the claim  in court. Thats  a decision its entitled 
to take but I would have expected it to confirm that there was a valid claim before agreeing  
to settle it. It appears it didn't do that in this case and instead settled the claim without  telling 
Mr W what it had done at the time. 
I've thought about what might have  happened  if Ageas had decided  to investigate  the claim 
further and what  the impact on Mr W might have  been. Clearly  I can't say with any certainty 
what the outcome  of further investigations would have been. And its certainly possible that 
the passenger  could  have  provided  a compelling explanation, for example she was jolted 
while she was putting things on the back seat. But even if that wasn't the case,  the 
passenger couldn't justify the cause of her injuries  and had dropped her personal injury  
claim completely; I don't think the outcome for Mr W would have been particularly different. 
Thats because Mr W agreed hed bumped  the other car. And regardless that his car wasn't 
affected an engineer  confirmed  the accident  had caused damage  to the other  car. That 
incident by itself would warrant a record on the claims  and underwriting  exchange (CUE)  
database, which is a shared record  of insurance claims and incidents. And Ageas paid the 
other insurer for the costs it had paid for the damage  claim.  Given  that the evidence points to 
the bump from Mr Ws car as being  the cause of the damage, I think that's reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So, a successful claim for damage had been  made against Mr Ws policy. And that means 
he had what is known  in the insurance industry as a fault claim.  Its that fault claim which  has 
most significantly affected Mr Ws insurance history and contributed to his premium  
increasing. It may help if I explain  that, for the majority of insurers, its the presence of the 
fault claim itself, rather than the amount  paid out to settle a claim,  that most affects 
premiums. So, even  if Ageas had refused  to pay the personal  injury claim, there was still a 
fault claim - for the damage  to the car. And that would have affected Mr Ws premium, 
regardless of whether or not the personal  injury  claim was paid. So I don't  think  Ageas 
decision to settle  the personal injury claim has had a significant ongoing effect on his 
premium, as that was otherwise affected by the fault claim for the accident damage to the 
car.
Mr W also learned that Ageas had settled a claim from 2012. Again Mr W believes  that the 
claim must have been fraudulent as no damage was done.  But Ageas confirmed that it 
received engineering and medical evidence in support of that claim. So I don't think it settled 
the claim unfairly. 
But I've seen no compelling evidence  that it told Mr W that it had settled the claim at that 
time. So I can understand this came as a shock to him when he learned about  it more 
recently. And I've seen  no evidence that Ageas had considered this matter  when offering 
Mr W compensation. So I've considered that below.
premium and redress
Ref: DRN52115083When it came to renewing Mr Ws policy Ageas  factored  the recent fault claim  into its 
premium calculation. I've seen that Mr Ws premium went up dramatically.  So I can 
understand why he wasn't happy with this, especially as Ageas hadn't  previously  told him 
that it had settled the claim. But its usual for insurers to consider that drivers with recent 
claims against their policies are higher risks than drivers without such claims. And insurers  
will generally reflect that increased risk with higher  premiums.
Were not the industry regulator. So its not my role to say how much  an insurer  should 
charge, what factors  it should  assess, or how much  risk to attach to each  of those factors. 
Insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. And we generally  take the view that, 
providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And - when deciding how much to 
charge for their policies - insurers will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their 
policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for those.  And 
each insurer will go about that in its own way. So, when deciding  if an insurer  has dealt with 
a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same  as it would other  consumers with 
similar circumstances. In Mr Ws case a number of factors contributed to the increase in 
premium. Those included his age and the recent fault claim. But Im satisfied that Ageas 
would have calculated  the premium for other drivers  with similar  circumstances in the same  
way. So I don't think it calculated Mr Ws premium unfairly and Im not going to direct  it to 
revisit that calculation.  
That said Ageas had previously acknowledged that it hadn't kept Mr W informed of its 
decision to settle  the claim. And it paid him £100 in recognition of that. But it clearly could 
also have done  more to investigate the personal injury claim. And if it had done so then it 
might have given Mr W some more peace  of mind that it had looked into matters  fairly. Also, 
as I've said above, I haven't seen any compelling evidence that it told Mr W it had settled  the 
earlier claim from 2012. And the matter has clearly been a source of considerable distress 
and inconvenience  for him. To address  that I think Ageas should pay Mr W a further  £300  
compensation.
developments 
Mr W made a number  of comments on my provisional decision. Amongst others he said that 
insurance fraud is a criminal offence  and that Ageas had a duty  of care to rigorously 
investigate the claim  and inform him of its progress. He said that Ageas  were in effect 
favouring the third party. He added that he didn't say that the other  cars  passenger  was 
putting something in the back of the car at the time of the bump.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
Mr W told us that he didn't say that the passenger was putting  something the back  of the car. 
But thats what Ageas noted Mr W had said when  he called it to tell it about the incident. And 
Ageas made those  notes at the time of the call and before it had received a claim.  So I think  
Ref: DRN52115084its likely  thats what Mr W told Ageas at the time, otherwise Ageas would have  no reason to 
record that.
Mr W said Ageas had a duty of care to rigorously investigate the claim. But I don't think 
hes right.  As I understand it a duty of care is a legal obligation to do something.  And as I 
said in my provisional decision Mr Ws policy  allows Ageas  to deal with claims as it sees  fit. 
So if it wishes to pay a claim  without  investigation, legally, its entitled to do so. So I don't 
think such a duty of care exists in these circumstances.  
Also as I said above, even if Ageas had investigated further, and the passenger had 
dropped her personal  injury claim, the effect on Mr W is likely to have been  the same. Thats  
because Ageas paid a claim  for damage to the car caused by the bump.  And that claim 
alone would  be recorded as a fault claim on Mr Ws insurance history. And that would have 
affected Mr Ws future premium irrespective of the personal injury claim. So I don't think  the 
fact that Ageas hasnt investigated more  thoroughly  has had a significant effect on Mr W. 
Although for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision I think  it should  pay him £300  to 
address his distress  and inconvenience caused  by some of its shortcomings.
I understand Mr W might be disappointed with my final decision, especially as its taken us 
far longer than we would like to reach this point, but Im satisfied this is the fair and 
reasonable outcome to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W a further  £300  compensation. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr W has accepted  my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Ageas pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5211508