K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that MBNA Limited  withdrew a promotional offer after she exceeded her 
credit limit by a small  amount.
background
Miss H had a credit  card with MBNA.  She had a promotional  offer on balance transfers. But 
the offer was removed when she exceeded her credit limit by a few pounds  after interest had 
been charged. Miss H said MBNA never  told her she was nearing her limit. And shed never  
exceeded her limit before. So she wants MBNA  to reinstate her promotional rate.
MBNA said Miss H had taken advantage of a 0% promotional rate on balance transfers. But 
shed gone over her agreed credit limit in July 2018. And the offer had been removed. MBNA 
said itd sent Miss H monthly statements. And the statements showed the balance on the 
account and any estimated  interest  to be charged  the following month. 
Miss H wasnt  satisfied  with MBNAs response so she contacted our service. Our adjudicator 
could see MBNA had previously told Miss H what the estimated interest was likely to be. She 
looked at the activity  on Miss Hs account  during the month when her limit was exceeded. 
And she could see Miss H had made some purchases during the month. So she couldnt say 
MBNA was responsible  for Miss H going  over her limit. 
Miss H didnt agree. Shed spoken to MBNA and been told it usually let customers  know  
when theyre near their limit. And MBNA  hadnt  told her when her promotional rate had been 
removed. So shes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H took advantage  of a 0% promotional  rate offer in June 2017. The offer was due to run 
until December 2018. But it was withdrawn in July 2018 after Miss H exceeded her credit 
limit. And the balance  reverted to the standard rate of interest. Miss H is upset  because  
shes had to increase  her monthly payments and is being charged more  interest.  So Ive 
looked carefully at everything Miss H and MBNA have said.
I can see that Miss H used her credit  card for purchases as well as the balance  transfer. So 
she was paying  0% interest on part of her balance and the standard rate on her spending.
According to the statement Miss H went  over her limit by £20.90  in July. I can see she was 
just below her credit  limit on her previous statement. But the statement did say an estimated  
£72.14 interest  was due to be added to her account. 
Miss H made her normal  monthly payment to the account.  But she also made further 
purchases during  the month.  And at the end of the period her credit limit had been 
exceeded. I realise Miss H is unhappy she was told MBNA sometimes informs  customers 
when they are near their limit. But its not a requirement for MBNA to monitor customer 
accounts and get in touch  when they are near their credit limit. And I think  the monthly 
statements contain sufficient information  for Miss H to check  her account and be aware how 
much she is able to spend during the period.  
Ref: DRN59402802Its Miss Hs responsibility to make her monthly payment and monitor  her spending  to keep 
within the agreed limits. So I cant really  say MBNA  are responsible  for Miss H going over 
her limit. Without the additional  spending the account limit wouldnt have been exceeded. 
There wasnt enough available  credit to cover her transactions that month.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. And they make it clear that any 
promotional offer will be withdrawn if certain conditions arent met. Miss H broke one of 
those conditions by exceeding her limit. So I cant say MBNA has done anything wrong in 
withdrawing the rate.
I realise Miss H will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant  say MBNA  has done 
anything wrong. From  what Ive seen  Miss Hs spending was responsible  for the account 
going over the credit  limit. And that meant she had breached the terms of the promotional  
offer. So I cant say MBNA has done anything wrong when it withdrew the 0% rate on her 
balance transfer.  And it wouldve been clear from her next statement that interest was now 
being charged on the full balance.
Miss H only went  over her limit by a small amount. And I can see our adjudicator spoke to 
MBNA and asked if the promotional rate could be reinstated. But MBNA said the terms and 
conditions make it clear promotional rates will be withdrawn if the account goes over the 
limit. However MBNA has refunded £147.14  interest  to Miss Hs account  as a gesture  of 
goodwill. And I think thats a fair response to help Miss H. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5940280