K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham  & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy at a meeting in 2000  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
They increased the cover at a meeting in 2003  when  taking a further advance. In 2004 they 
increased it again when taking another  further  advance.
On each occasion Mr and Mrs N were both employed in education. At the first sale Mr N had 
been with his employer more than three  years  and Mrs N more than ten years.  At the 2003 
sale Mr N had been with a new employer for around five months and at the 2004 sale Mrs N 
had been with a new employer for over six months.  This and what  I know  of the benefits paid 
in Mr and Mrs Ns line of work, makes me think it likely they were entitled to redundancy pay 
and to sick pay not exceeding  six months full pay followed by six months half pay. Theyve 
also told us they didnt have anything else, like savings, to fall back  on if they couldnt  work.
From what  Mr and Mrs N have told us, Mrs N was in good health and hadnt had any health 
issues. Mr N has told us hed missed the odd day of work  with a health issue hed had for 
around five years at the time of the 2000  sale and hed had minor surgery for another  issue  
two years before the sale and suffered another instance of this issue  a year after the sale. 
Mr N has told us he missed a week  of work  as result of this second health issue. He hasnt 
told us of having had any other health issues.
Subject to its exclusions and limitations, the policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs N for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Cover was split equally initially, with half the benefit 
payable for a successful  claim on Mr N and half for a successful claim on Mrs N. From the 
first increase  onwards the cover was split 60/40 in Mr Ns favour.
The full benefit  in 2000 would pay Mr and Mrs Ns monthly mortgage payment (£290.40)  plus 
£3 for every £1000 of the initial mortgage  amount (£99) and premiums for certain associated 
insurances if those insurances  were  taken with Lloyds. The policy cost £16.50 per month. It 
cost £1.35 a month more after the 2003  increase to cover the further advance payment 
(£25.04 a month)  plus £3 for every £1000 of the initial mortgage (£6). From  the increase in 
2004 the policy covered a repayment of around £365.60 a month plus £3 for every £1000  of 
the initial mortgage (£132) and cost £22.24  at that point.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2006.  Mr and Mrs Ns 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ns representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN50841642The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr and Mrs N 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs N and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
The policy was sold in 2000 and increased  in 2003  and 2004,  before the sale of general 
insurance products  like this became regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBS) are not applicable to this complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance  (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN50841643There were a number of industry codes in existence  during the period, which  I am satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
The sale and increases were during a period of industry self-regulation by the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published  the GISC Code, which set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance during this period:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI during  the period were members of the ABI or 
GISC, I consider these publications indicative of the standards  of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required, for the initial  sale, to take into account  
what determination the relevant former  scheme  the Office of the Banking Ombudsman in 
this case  might have been  expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable  rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The policy sale and increases  took place before insurance mediation became  a 
Ref: DRN50841644regulated activity, so Lloyds was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 
as if they were guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs N with reasonable  care and skill  
in particular, whether  the PPI was appropriate  or suitable for them, given  their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ns 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs N and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below.
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr and Mrs N have said they had no 
interest in PPI and have  said it was just included as part of the package with their mortgage. 
But to take the PPI Mr and Mrs N signed a PPI proposal form each time, separate from the 
forms they signed to apply  for the mortgage  and mortgage increases. Also,  Mr N signed a 
separate direct debit  each time to pay for the cover. So, it looks  like the PPI was presented  
each time as something separate from the mortgage, with a separate  cost.  
The PPI proposal  form in 2000 indicated  Mr and Mrs N wanted  each  to be insured for 50% of 
their mortgage costs. The forms in 2003 and 2004  requested a 60/40  split in Mr Ns favour. 
Ive not seen anything from the sales to suggest  Mr and Mrs N had to take the PPI or had to 
sign the proposal forms to apply  for it, or the direct  debits to pay for it, if they didnt want it.
Also, the 2000 mortgage application form had boxes to tick to say either the PPI was wanted 
or that it wasnt and the consequences  of not having  cover for the mortgage costs  in case of 
unemployment, sickness or accident had been explained. So the form presented the PPI as 
something Mr and Mrs N had the option  to apply for or turn down. On Mr and Mrs Ns form, 
the box to take the cover  was ticked - and I think they wouldve known the box to turn down 
cover should  be ticked  instead if they didnt want cover. The 2003 mortgage  increase form 
also had boxes showing PPI could be taken or turned down.
In 2004 the mortgage  form was printed. I think it likely the printed  details  reflect the choices 
Mr and Mrs N made  during the conversation  before the form was printed  for them  to sign. 
The form had a separate PPI section with a box to tick if the cover was wanted  so I think it 
likely the PPI was offered  during the conversation and with the box being ticked if cover  was 
Ref: DRN50841645wanted. As already noted, Mr and Mrs N also signed  a separate PPI application that set out 
how benefits would be split - and Mr N signed a separate direct debit to pay for the PPI.
Ive not seen anything to make me think Lloyds  pressured Mr and Mrs N into opting for PPI. 
Also, with all the above in mind, Im not persuaded PPI was just included  with the mortgage 
or mortgage increases. Taking everything  into account, I think  its more likely Mr and Mrs N 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it each time without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice when it sold the PPI. If Lloyds did give advice, Lloyds had to 
do more. With this in mind, Im persuaded  its fair to proceed on the basis Lloyds provided 
advice. This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  at the sales, the documentary evidence  suggests 
Lloyds took some steps to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs N. Lloyds had information about  some of Mr and Mrs Ns financial circumstances 
as part of their mortgage  and subsequent further  advance applications  for example the 
2000, 2003 and 2004 borrowing  forms recorded their salaries and employment start dates. 
Also, the PPI application forms Mr and Mrs N signed in 2003 and 2004  had questions to 
establish they didnt hold other PPI policies, werent  aware of impending  unemployment or 
hospitalisation and didnt,  from their answers, suffer  from medical conditions of a persistent 
or recurring  nature. 
But I dont think Lloyds  did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs N and to 
establish they had a need for it. For example,  Ive nothing  to show  that Lloyds asked about 
Mr and Mrs Ns work  sickness or redundancy benefits. Also, while  the declaration on the 
2000 PPI application form asked that Mr and Mrs N confirm  they were  working  at least 16 
hours a week, werent aware of any impending unemployment or hospitalisation and werent 
receiving ongoing  medical treatment for persistent or recurring  conditions,  I cant  see that 
Lloyds established  that all these points applied before giving them  the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it shouldve done to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs N, I do think  its more  likely  than not it was ultimately suitable for them. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs N had a need  for the PPI  it seems  likely theyd suffer  a loss of income if 
Mr or Mrs N werent able to work for a time due to unemployment  or for a prolonged 
period due to sickness or accident.  By helping with their mortgage related costs, the PPI 
benefit wouldve  helped  Mr and Mrs N manage the consequences in that situation, 
making it less likely their home  would  be put at risk.
Ref: DRN50841646-Mr and Mrs N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy  and although theyve said they were 
financially stretched  at the time,  Ive seen  nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the 
PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs N. There  
was nothing about their employment  or occupations which wouldve made it difficult  for 
them to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for mental health or 
back problems. Mr and Mrs N couldnt have  claimed for any disability suffered due to a 
health issue they knew about  if this occurred or re re-occurred during the first 24 months 
of cover.  But Mrs N didnt have any health  issues and taking into account  all Mr N has 
told us about the health issues he had, and in particular the limited work absences  they 
had caused, and given what the PPI would still cover, Im not persuaded this exclusion 
meant the cover wouldnt have  still been useful for Mr and Mrs N or that it made Lloyds 
recommendation of the cover unsuitable for them.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the PPI (including that no benefit  was payable 
for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment, the PPI would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim and for disability  Mr or Mrs N had to be unable to 
do his or her own job and unable  to do any similar job he or she might reasonably 
become qualified for in view of his or her training,  education  and ability).  But the PPI still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances, including Mr and Mrs Ns work benefits (which they 
mightve expected  to give an income  during the policys 60-day qualification period), 
the limits  to Mr and Mrs Ns work  benefits  and the loss of income Mr and Mrs N could 
suffer if either of them  lost their job or were too sick to work for an extended time 
(and the impact  this might have on Mr and Mrs Ns ability to meet  mortgage  related 
costs, bearing in mind  also that they didnt  have any savings to fall back on).
The PPI helped protect payments relating to the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ns home 
and I bear in mind  the potential consequences  should they have become unable to 
pay the loans  secured  against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable them to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect a share of their mortgage payments if 
either Mr or Mrs N were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment  and 
protect the whole payment if neither could work) and of the approximate  costs.
Ive reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs N wouldve taken the PPI 
without any sense of what it was and of how much  the premium  might be. Also,  the proposal 
forms they signed set out the share of the benefit payable for each of them,  and the PPI part 
of the 2000 mortgage  application  indicated the PPI was cover  in case  Mr or Mrs N couldnt 
work due to unemployment, sickness  or accident.
Ref: DRN50841647But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs N agreed to take the PPI. 
Having considered the parties representations about what  happened,  while Im satisfied the 
PPI was a suitable recommendation  for Mr and Mrs N, overall  Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to them.  Im not persuaded Lloyds gave  Mr and Mrs N all the information they 
needed about the PPI to make an informed  decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ns. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs N about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Lloyds  ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not they would have 
still taken the PPI, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I have found the PPI was ultimately 
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs N have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
Ref: DRN50841648properly, Mr and Mrs N would have acted  differently  or whether they would have taken  the 
PPI in any event.
Mr and Mrs N say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the insurance, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs N had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  offered the PPI or advised them there was 
a suitable insurance they could buy that would help protect their mortgage payments if they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment, they concluded  they 
wanted that insurance. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs N the exact  premium  when they applied  for the PPI 
each time.  But I think they knew they would have to pay something for it (and I bear in mind 
the direct  debit Mr N signed). Also, I consider  it unlikely Mr and Mrs N wouldve agreed  to the 
PPI without having an idea of the approximate cost each time. Also,  if when they came to 
pay for it the cost had been significantly at odds  with their expectations when they bought it, 
Mr and Mrs N mightve  raised this with Lloyds  or reconsidered their decision at that time - 
instead of paying for it for a number of years  and increasing it as outlined above. Overall,  Im 
not persuaded Mr and Mrs N wouldve found the cost unacceptable  if they had been given 
the exact figure each time they agreed to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs N would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But it is apparent they were aware of the 
share of the benefit payable for each of them and I think its likely they expected,  if they 
werent also told, that in the event  of a claim the full benefit would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  their monthly mortgage payment.  
So I think it likely the PPI at least met Mr and Mrs Ns likely  expectations  about  what it would 
pay and, if anything, actually paid more  in the event  of a claim than they would have 
expected - as there was an additional cash payment  on top of the share of the mortgage 
payment (and a contribution towards  certain associated  insurance premiums).
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN50841649The PPI excluded claims  for disability if due to a pre-existing health issue (a health issue 
Mr or Mrs N knew or ought to have  known about at the PPI start date or had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the PPI start date) occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if the insured 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that, for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs N not only be unable  to do his or 
her own job but also be unable to do any similar  job the insurer thought  he or she was or 
might reasonably become qualified for in view of his or her training, education and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months per claim, rather than the remaining  
term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs N pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of the sales shows  the 
PPI wasnt fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable  for them. They were eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality.
Mr and Mrs N couldnt have claimed for work  absences if related to Mr Ns health issue for 
which hed missed the odd day of work or if related to the other health  issue hed missed  a 
week of work with two years before the sale. But taking into account  all hes told us about 
these, what I have  doesnt make me think Mr and Mrs N wouldve thought  at the sale that 
work absences from this issue exceeding  60 days were so likely in future  that cover that 
excluded such absences  would no longer be worth  taking.
Also, Mr and Mrs N didnt have any other health issues  the PPI mightve  excluded  and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest they wouldve been caught by any of the other significant exclusions 
 they were both in permanent employment,  for example. So, with this and all Ive said 
above in mind, I think Mr and Mrs N still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the PPI without first providing some evidence  to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs N had known they could only claim for disability if Mr or Mrs N were unable to 
do his or her own job and unable  to do any similar job the insurer thought  he or she was or 
might reasonably become qualified for in view of his or her training, education and ability,  it 
might have played into their thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although its possible  they may not have been overly concerned given 
that if Mr or Mrs N were unable (through disability) to do his or her own job, the chances  he 
or she would  be able to take up a similar job would  also,  in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs N the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment 
Mr or Mrs N suffered wouldnt be covered  and may not have told them  any claim would be 
Ref: DRN508416410limited to a 12 month period. All this may have differed from what  they expected and might 
have hoped for. But given the loss of income they were likely to suffer  if Mr or Mrs N couldnt 
work for a time due to unemployment, or for an extended period due to sickness or accident, 
I consider it likely Mr and Mrs N wouldve still thought that PPI that after 60 days paid its 
benefit for up to 12 months, to help meet a share  of the mortgage  costs (the whole cost if 
neither could work), would be of benefit and help them  manage  the consequences  if either  
one of them, or both,  couldnt work  in the circumstances  the PPI covered. The PPI allowed 
for multiple  claims  to be made and, by helping with their mortgage related-costs, could help 
make it less likely  Mr and Mrs Ns home would be placed at risk at what could be a difficult  
time if Mr or Mrs N, or both, were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs N would still have  taken the PPI. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if either of them, or both, were made redundant, or unable  to 
work due to accident or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr and Mrs N wouldve  taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible they wouldnt  have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI had they 
Ref: DRN508416411been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI they were buying.  So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Lloyds 
should pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than 
they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs N think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2000,  2003 and 2004 when providing  information about insurance. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs N and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084164