K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  was irresponsible to lend to 
him.
background
Mr K had three loans  from Mr Lender between March 2014 and October 2015 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 22 Mar 2014 £150 8d £176.25 31 Mar 2014 30 Jun 2014
3 x rollovers
2 13 Nov 2014 £400 5m £200.00* 31 Mar 2015 On time
3 31 Oct 2015 £500 5m £224.00* 31 Mar 2016 On time
* Highest  scheduled monthly repayment over the term of the loan
Mr K says that he took out multiple  loans during the lending period with Mr Lender to help 
make the repayments.  He adds that Mr Lender did not take into account the bank 
statements he sent when  it reviewed his complaint.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr K about his income and expenditure and checked his credit file. 
It says its credit checks showed Mr K was a credit worthy customer  and was permitted to 
use its rollover service as a result. Mr Lender  says its checks  showed  the loans were  
affordable to Mr K and that there were no indications of financial difficulties. It adds that the 
gaps between loans  showed he was not reliant on the lending.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  find there was 
anything in the information provided, or the information of which  Mr Lender should have 
been aware, that indicated the loans were unaffordable to Mr K.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that still no reference had been  made  to the bank  
statements hed provided in the specific context  of his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make  sure Mr K 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr K was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr K applied  for his first loan with Mr Lender, it asked him about his income and 
expenditure and checked  his credit file. Mr K said his income was £1,000, with expenditure 
of £200 (as many  of his expenses  were  paid by his employer). As there were no indications 
of financial difficulty on Mr Lenders  credit  check,  and the monthly repayment was a small 
proportion of Mr Ks income,  I dont  consider  Mr Lender needed to do any further checks or 
that it was wrong  to approve the loan.
Ref: DRN55029642Loan 2
It was over four months after hed repaid loan 1 that Mr K applied  for loan 2. Although hed 
applied for more money, Mr K was repaying it over five months,  so his highest scheduled 
instalment was £200. Mr Lender carried out the same checks  as before and I dont consider 
further checks would have been  proportionate  to the circumstances.  I say that because 
Mr Ks declared disposable income  was over £700,  his monthly repayments were £200 or 
less, hed had a break in borrowing, and the credit  check didnt indicate financial problems.
So I consider Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks for loan 2 and it was entitled to rely 
on the information provided by Mr K at this stage. So I find it was reasonable for Mr Lender 
to have approved  the loan.
Loan 3
Mr K repaid  loan 2 on time and it was then a further seven months before he applied  for 
another loan.  Again,  he said his disposable  income  was over £700 and the largest 
scheduled repayment was £224.  Mr Lenders  credit check  showed  nothing about which it 
had concerns, and the break  in lending was such that it would have  had no concerns that 
Mr K was reliant on such loans. So Im satisfied Mr Lenders checks  were  proportionate and 
there was nothing to indicate the repayments were unsustainable.
I acknowledge that Mr K says that both Mr Lender  and this service asked for bank 
statements when assessing his complaint and then neither made  reference  to them.  In the 
case of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  often information is requested before a case  is 
assessed so that delays  are minimised once the assessment begins. The first stage of an 
assessment is to decide whether a lender has done enough checks before making its 
lending decisions.  Often this service  will decide that further checks  should have been  carried  
out and will look at bank  statements  to see what such checks  would have  shown.
In this case, Mr Lender had already  asked  Mr K about income and expenditure and checked 
his credit file. It is likely this service would have  said those checks  needed  to go further if:
Mr K was borrowing  frequently,  with little or no gap between loans;
The scheduled repayments were a significant  proportion of Mr Ks income;
Mr K had had trouble  repaying earlier loans;
Mr Ks credit  check showed recent defaults or other indicators of financial difficulty.
As none of the above applied to Mr Ks complaint, I considered Mr Lenders checks  had 
gone far enough and, therefore,  I did not need to refer to his bank statements to decide what 
further checks were likely to have shown.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5502964