K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr R bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below:
I think Lloyds made  Mr R aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. It seems  the credit card application  form was filled in by Lloyds on Mr Rs behalf 
and that he signed  it. The PPI section  was completed to show that Mr R wanted the 
cover. Mr R says he wouldnt have agreed to take the PPI, and that Lloyds ticked  the 
box without his knowledge or consent.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be 
sure what  was discussed between him and Lloyds when the policy  was sold.  Im also 
mindful that these  events  took place about twenty years ago, and that exact  
recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
On balance, I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr Rs account  
if he hadnt agreed to it. I accept its possible  that PPI wasnt discussed, but its 
equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mr R may no longer 
remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  Even  though he says 
he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer, the policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to those benefits, and wouldve been  useful to Mr R if he couldnt work  because of 
sickness or accident.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr R would have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ref: DRN50438272my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5043827