K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Think Money  Limited blocked  and closed his bank  account.  And hasnt 
satisfactorily explained why. He says this caused  him distress  and inconvenience because 
he wasnt able to access his funds. And he wants Think Money to compensate him.
background
Mr P had a current account with Think Money.
In October  2018, just over £1,100 was credited into Mr Ps account  in three separate 
transactions. On 11 October 2018,  Think  Money  reviewed Mr Ps account and asked him to 
provide information  about the payments. Whilst it conducted the review, Think  Money  
restricted Mr Ps access to his account.
The block  stopped Mr P from being able to access money in his account. Think  Money  
unblocked Mr Ps account on 25 October  2018. And Mr P was able to access  his funds.
On 17 October 2018, Think Money wrote  to Mr P to let him know  it had decided to close  his 
account and gave him 7 days notice to make  alternative banking arrangements.  
Mr P says Think Money hasnt properly explained the reasons why it blocked and then 
closed his account. Hes told us that this caused him a great deal of stress  and anxiety. And 
that the blocks on his account made  it difficult for him to manage financially from day to day, 
which meant he had to borrow money from friends.
Mr P complained to Think Money. It says it acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions when it blocked and closed his account. It acknowledged that it gave Mr P 
conflicting information when Mr P had called to find out what was happening. And that it 
shouldnt have told Mr P that there was a technical issue  with his account. Think  Money  
apologised for giving Mr P incorrect information.  Mr P wasnt happy with this response so he 
brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator explained Think Money werent required to provide their reasons for the 
block and closure  of the account. He was satisfied Think Money had acted fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And that it had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations. So he didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr P disagreed. Hes still upset that Think Money blocked his account. He says this caused 
him a great deal of upset and inconvenience.  He says the money was given to him by a 
relative and he hasnt done  anything  wrong.  He wants Think  Money  to pay him £300  
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused because his account was blocked. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P is upset. Im sorry this experience has been stressful for him and 
made him feel unwell.  But for me to uphold his complaint  I have to think the bank has done  
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
account block
Ref: DRN50541642Think Money is required to have measures  in place to review payments. As part of its review  
process it is entitled to ask a customer for more information. And its not for this service  to 
interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes 
and then put the customer back in the position  theyd  have  been  in if the mistake hadnt 
happened.
Think Money was entitled to review Mr Ps account  under the account  terms and conditions.  
Having looked  at the evidence, Im satisfied that Think Money acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account. I accept that that this 
caused Mr P difficulty. And I can understand that hes frustrated that he hasnt been given a 
proper explanation. I note he made several phone calls to the bank  to try and find out what 
was happening with his account.  But Think Money  doesnt have  to provide this information.  
So I cant say the bank did anything wrong  by not giving this to him.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this particular case, I can see no basis on which 
I might  make  an award  against Think Money given that I dont think it failed to properly follow 
its own procedures when  it blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account. Im also satisfied that 
Think Money was acting  in line with its legal and regulatory obligations.  So Im not going to 
ask Think Money to compensate him for any distress  and inconvenience  this may have 
caused him.
I can see that Think Money has apologised  to Mr P for telling  him his account was blocked 
due to a technical issue. Im satisfied that Think  Money has done  enough  to resolve this 
aspect of Mr Ps complaint. So Im not going  to ask them to do anything more.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Think Money and Mr P had to comply 
with, say that it could  close the account by giving him 7 days notice. Think Money has done 
this. So its entitled  to close the accounts as it seems its already done. 
I dont think that under  the terms and conditions  of the account  Think Money is obliged to tell 
a customer why its closing an account. So I dont think its made a mistake by not providing  
any reasons to Mr P in this case.
I know Mr P is unhappy that Think  Money closed his account. But the bank can make 
commercial decisions about  who it offers banking services to. They  cannot  unfairly  
discriminate against  a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do business with 
individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide  who they want to 
contract with. And Im satisfied that Think Money has exercised its commercial decision 
legitimately when it decided to close Mr Ps account. So I cannot fairly and reasonably say 
its done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN50541643Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5054164