K820x#14Complaint
Mr W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI) for a 
dual credit card account. 
Background
Mr W bought the PPI in 1996, at the same time as taking out a dual credit  card account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the PPI was mis-sold  here  Ill explain why.
Mr Ws credit card application  had a section for PPI. It had two tick boxes  to choose from: 
one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Both boxes were equally prominent, and neither box 
appears to have been pre-selected. The box for PPI was ticked, and Mr W signed the form 
to confirm his choices. So I think its most likely  that Barclays  made  Mr W aware  he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr W, which means they had to check  it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr W was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. While he had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve  covered him 
for much longer than they wouldve lasted,  and it paid out on top of his existing benefits. So it 
looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Mr W in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave  Mr W about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr W chose to take out the PPI, which  indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above,  it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of 
the main things the PPI didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for Mr W in case something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr W could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about  the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking it out.
Ref: DRN50997802My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5099780