K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd provided him with poor service  and 
hasnt treated him fairly.  He wants it to write  off the remaining balance on his account.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 21 January 
2019, a copy of which is attached. I concluded  that:
Overall,  Creation had fulfilled its obligations  to treat Mr M fairly whilst he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
But I thought Creations communication shouldve been  better  and that this, together 
with its decision to pass the debt to a debt collection agency, caused Mr M distress for 
which he should  be compensated. I thought £200 was fair and reasonable.
I thought Creations lack of action  meant  the default wasnt  applied to Mr Ms account as 
early as it should  have been  and that this should be amended  to August 2017.
I reminded  Creation  of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly and sensitively and that it should 
pass the management  of his account  to its specialist team for reassessment and to 
communicate with him by email,  his preferred method of communication.
I invited both parties to provide further  evidence and comments.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that:
He cant afford to pay for access to his credit file, so would  like Creation to provide 
evidence that its asked  for the default  date to be amended.
Creation said its suspended all interest and charges. But recent  communications  from 
Creation show  the balance outstanding has increased.
During a phone  call with Creation in March 2017, its member of staff suggested that it 
would accept a lump  sum offer of £9,000 in full and final settlement. But this was 
rejected when he offered it.
According to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), as a general  rule, a default 
may be recorded after three months  of arrears  and normally after six months  of arrears. 
His account was three months  in arrears by November  2016 and six months in arrears  
by February 2017.
Hes been alarmed by recent letters received from Creation.
Ref: DRN57071462Creation said it agreed with my provisional  decision.  It said it had arranged for Mr Ms 
account to be dealt with by its specialist  consumer support team  but that it needed  the 
following documents:
1.A completed financial statement (which is required every  six months).
2.Proof of income (last three  months wage slips or bank statements or proof of benefits).
3.A letter  to confirm Mr Ms medical circumstances on letter  headed paper from a GP or 
other health professional (it will reimburse  for any cost involved).
Creation said if the information wasnt received within 90 days, the account wouldnt stay 
with its specialist team.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional information provided by Mr M and Ill respond to the points 
hes raised:
default recorded on Mr Ms credit file
Creation recorded  a default in August 2018.  Mr M has correctly quoted the ICOs guidance. 
But we would not expect a business to apply a default when theres a realistic possibility that 
the debt can be repaid.  Usually,  when a temporary payment plan is agreed,  both parties  
remain hopeful that the consumers circumstances  will change and that they will be able to 
repay the arrears  on the account  in the future. And this was the case for Mr M. Two payment 
plans were agreed and Mr M told Creation he expected his position to change for the 
positive. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought it was reasonably  clear  by August 2017 
that Mr Ms circumstances werent going to improve and that this was when the default 
shouldve been  applied. Having reconsidered the evidence, I find the default shouldve  been 
applied when the second repayment plan ended on 1 May 2017. Although Mr M did make 
one more payment  after this date, I think it was reasonably clear by 1 May that his 
circumstances werent  going to improve  in the near future.
Mr M says he can no longer get a free copy of his credit file and he cant afford to pay to 
register with the credit reference agencies. I cant order  Creation to provide documentary  
evidence that its given instructions for the default  date to be changed. But it is required to 
abide by my final decision if Mr M accepts it. It should email Mr M to tell him when it has 
given the instruction for the default date to be changed to 1 May 2017.
interest and charges
Creation told us that interest and charges were  suspended on the account in July 2016. Ive 
not seen evidence to show that any interest or charges were added  to Mr Ms account  the 
balance outstanding remains £18,336.62.
Ref: DRN57071463rejection of lump  sum offer
I dont dispute  that a member of staff may have suggested to Mr M that he might like to 
consider making  a lump sum offer in full and final settlement.  But Im afraid that doesnt  
change my conclusion   when Mr M made his offer, Creation wasnt under any obligation to 
accept it.
recent correspondence
During our investigation, Creation said it would put its collections activity on hold, although 
certain letters would continue to be automatically  sent. I can see Mr M was sent a letter last 
month asking for him to call to arrange a repayment  plan.  In response to my provisional  
decision, Creation  told us it has now passed  his account to its specialist  consumer support 
team so all communication should now be from that team.
documentation required  by Creation
Ive set out above what Creation said in response  to my provisional decision about the 
information it now requires from Mr M. It should  contact him direct  to obtain this information. 
Although Mr M has provided information about  his financial position in the past, its 
reasonable that Creation  wants  to see up to date information. 
Mr M sent Creation a GPs  letter dated  11 August 2018 about  his medical condition which 
should be sufficient  for Creations records  it includes  the GPs  stamp. But its not 
unreasonable for it to ask for up to date information  about Mr Ms condition  and, if it requires  
this, it has told us it will reimburse  Mr M for any costs involved.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1. Pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused. This should  
be paid directly to Mr M and not used to reduce the outstanding debt.
2. Amend  Mr Ms credit file to show the default being applied  to his account on 1 May 
2017 and email  Mr M to confirm  this has been done.
3. Pass the management  of Mr Ms account  to its specialist team  for reassessment  and 
communicate with Mr M by email.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57071464copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer  Finance Ltd provided him with poor service and hasnt 
treated him fairly. He wants it to write  off the remaining balance on his account.
background
Mr M signed a fixed  sum loan agreement  with Creation in August  2014. Under the terms of the 
agreement, he was required to pay £510.99 each month for five years.
In July 2016  Mr M contacted Creation  to tell it he was experiencing financial difficulties. Creation 
placed a hold on the account  and suspended all interest and charges. A few weeks later,  Mr M said 
he could afford to pay £200  a month and Creation agreed to this for three months.
After three months   in October  2016  Mr M advised of a further change  in circumstances and, once 
he had provided up to date information about his income  and expenses,  Creation agreed to monthly 
payments of £80.
The following year, Mr M received a lump  sum following the sale of his house and wanted to settle all 
of his debts. In March 2017 he wrote to all of his creditors  offering partial settlement  and asking  for the 
remaining debt to be written  off. The amount  outstanding on his account with Creation was around 
£18,500. Mr M offered  £9,000. Creation declined to accept this and Mr M continued with the £80 
monthly payments.
In July 2017,  Mr M wrote  to Creation explaining his current circumstances  and offering to pay £3,570 
to settle  his account. Creation didnt reply  and Mr M phoned it around two months later.  Creation 
declined Mr Ms settlement  offer and told him, if he could pay £14,669.30, it would write off the 
remaining balance.  Mr M couldnt pay this amount so Creation offered  to put the account on hold for 
six months, with no payments. Mr M said this wouldnt help because there wouldnt be any change  in 
his circumstances  during this period.
Around two months later, Mr M wrote  to Creation  again with his offer of £3,570.  Creation didnt  reply. 
It contacted  Mr M to seek up to date financial information and asked him to provide  evidence of his 
medical condition. In June 2018, it passed the account to a debt collection agency,  although  I 
understand it has now been  passed  back  to Creation.  Creation  recorded  the account  as in default  in 
August 2018.
Creation didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M told us that:
 He has no way of repaying the debt. His circumstances havent changed  in over two years and 
are unlikely to do so.
 He provided evidence of his financial  circumstances on four occasions and has provided medical 
evidence. He didnt understand why he was required to continue  to provide this information when 
Creation hadnt  responded to his complaint.
 Creation didnt respond to his second lump sum offer until he chased  it. It then made  a counter  
offer which it knew  he couldnt afford.
 The default should have been  recorded at an earlier  stage.
 Creation has acted unreasonably and this has impacted on his ability to settle with other creditors 
at an already difficult time for him.
Ref: DRN57071465Our investigator concluded that Creation acted reasonably in putting Mr Ms account on hold,  
suspending interest and charges and in trying to recover the debt. And she thought  it hadnt unfairly 
delayed the account  default. But she recommended Creation should:
 Assess Mr Ms situation following receipt of his doctors  letter.
 Recall  the debt from the debt collection  agency.
 Arrange for Creations  dedicated team to liaise  with Mr M by email (Mr Ms preferred method of 
communication) regarding the account and the options available to him for repayment.
 Pay Mr M £100  for the inconvenience caused following the breakdown in communication  when 
his account was referred to a debt collection agency.
Neither party  agreed  with our investigators conclusion. Creation didnt explain why it didnt agree.
Mr M said, in summary,  that:
 Creation delayed the default process when there was no reasonable chance of him repaying  the 
debt.
 Its failure to provide any reason for rejecting  his first lump sum offer prevented him settling his 
other debts, causing him considerable  worry and stress.
 Creation failed to respond  to his second lump sum offer. When  it finally  responded  it didnt give 
any reason  for rejecting  his offer and it failed  to indicate what figure might resolve the matter.
 Creation didnt respond to his complaint in a reasonable timescale,  bearing in mind  his 
circumstances.
 After hed referred his complaint to this service,  Creation passed his debt to a debt recovery 
agent. It didnt  provide that agent with any information about Mr Ms situation.  This led to 
aggressive recovery action and the sum of £100 isnt enough to reflect  the distress caused.
 Creations delays means it gives it more time to pursue the debt later and penalises  him by 
having the default  on his credit file for longer than could have been.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the problems  Mr M has been experiencing, financially, personally and with his 
health. I can understand  how this has been a very difficult time for him.
And I can see that he told Creation about his financial difficulties in July 2016 and that hes been 
generally proactive in contacting it and trying to agree affordable payments. And that hes managed to 
meet the monthly payments  agreed under  two short  term repayment  plans.
Ref: DRN57071466Creation has an obligation to treat consumers in financial difficulty  fairly and the Financial  Conduct 
Authority gives some examples of steps a business might take in these circumstances, such as 
suspending interest and charges and agreeing  reduced payments. I find that, overall, Creation has 
fulfilled its obligations.  It became aware of Mr Ms financial difficulties in July 2016 and it placed  his 
account on hold. It suspended all interest and charges  and these remain suspended.  It agreed a 
three month repayment plan of £200 a month. Later, when Mr M told it his circumstances had 
changed again, and after hed provided evidence of his income and expenses, it agreed a six month 
repayment plan of £80 a month. Mr M seemed hopeful that his circumstances would  change  for the 
better by the end of the six months, although  sadly this wasnt the case.
Creation wasnt under  any obligation to accept Mr Ms offer of a partial  lump sum settlement  of £9,000 
in March 2017. And I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that Mr Ms circumstances could still 
change for the better.  It wouldve been  helpful  if it couldve explained why it declined Mr Ms offer and 
told him what sum it would accept in full and final settlement. Although, had it done so, I dont think it 
wouldve changed anything overall  Mr M was unlikely  to be able to pay back  more  than the amount 
he offered.
In August 2017, Mr M made a second offer of £3,570. In his letter  he gave Creation more  information  
about his personal and medical  circumstances. I find that, from this point on, Creation were aware 
that Mr M should be treated as a vulnerable  customer and that it had an obligation  to deal with him 
sensitively. I dont think  it was unreasonable  for it to ask for medical  evidence and its unfortunate that 
there was a long delay in Mr M being  able to obtain this  he didnt provide it until around a year later,  
and after hed referred his complaint to this service.
During this period of around a year, I think Creations  communication with Mr M couldve been better. 
It didnt respond to his offer of £3,570 until Mr M contacted it. It didnt respond to his letter  in 
November 2017 when Mr M repeated his offer. It acknowledged his complaint, but didnt provide a 
final response until seven months later. And it passed his account to its debt collection agency  which 
led to Mr M being telephoned several times a day. During  this period, it did contact Mr M several 
times to ask for the medical evidence  and to ask for up to date financial information. But, in the 
absence of the evidence, it should still have been able to respond to his letters  and give him the 
reassurance he needed  that his account remained  on hold and that interest and charges remained  
suspended. I dont think it was appropriate to pass Mr Ms account to the debt collection agency, 
without it being put on notice that he was a vulnerable consumer.
The poor communication   and the decision to pass the debt to the debt collection  agency  added  to 
Mr Ms distress, at an already very stressful  time for him and I think he should be compensated.  I 
think £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I also think  Creations  lack of action during  this period  means  the default wasnt applied to Mr Ms 
account as early as it should have been. Although it was right to ask for evidence to confirm what  Mr 
M had told it about his financial and personal  position, I think it was reasonably clear by August 2017  
that Mr Ms circumstances were unlikely  to change  in the foreseeable  future. So I think  the default 
shouldve been applied then.
Since referring his complaint to this service, Mr M has been able to provide Creation with the medical 
evidence it requested. So it should ensure its specialist  team is now in contact with Mr M by his 
preferred method of contact which I understand is email.
I would remind Creation  of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly and sensitively.  I understand it now has 
evidence of Mr Ms up to date financial position and his medical condition, although  it may need to ask 
Mr M further questions about his income and expenses. But it should  then be able to assess  whether 
Mr Ms circumstances  have changed and whether they are likely to change  in the future. And it will 
then be in a position to reconsider whether Mr M is likely to be able to make any further payments to 
repay the debt.
Ref: DRN57071467my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1. Pay Mr M £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This should  be paid 
directly to Mr M and not used to reduce the outstanding  debt.
2. Amend Mr Ms credit  file to show the default being applied to his account  in August 2017.
3. Pass the management  of Mr Ms account to its specialist team for reassessment and 
communicate with Mr M by email.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5707146