K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Connells Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  
with their remortgage application.  They  want matters  put right.
background
Mr and Mrs S wanted to remortgage their property and used Connells as their broker.  They 
said that due to its failings, they moved onto on a standard variable interest rate (SVR) for 
about three months, rather than being  on the new rate of 1.99%. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Connells. It apologised for the poor service and the delay, and 
offered the difference between the monthly payment paid and the amount they wouldve  paid 
if the new interest rate applied (£230.91) and £250  for the trouble and upset caused.  
But Mr and Mrs S said Connells hadnt  paid the full financial loss due to capital 
repayments. Mr and Mrs S explained that theyd paid much more on the SVR to their old 
lender compared  to the amount they paid previously when on a fixed interest rate of 1.74%; 
their monthly mortgage payment increased  by around £250 each month for the three months  
they were on the SVR and they hadnt  received the extra borrowing while paying the extra  
interest. They thought  £1,372.81 represented their loss. Connells  hadnt taken into account 
the fact that the original mortgage  balance was much smaller than the new mortgage 
balance (approximately  £163,000 as opposed to £211,000), which masked the full financial 
loss.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigators  view was that the key issue was the 
financial loss suffered by the consumers. She didnt think  Mr and Mrs S calculations were  
correct as the old mortgage  was very different to the new mortgage   the sum borrowed was 
different, as was the term. The two lenders involved had different  methods of calculating 
interest and dealing with the capital balance in the investigators view. 
The investigator said the fairest resolution was for Connells  to pay the difference  between  
the monthly payments on the old mortgage  on the SVR and the first three  and a half months 
payments on the new mortgage, together with 8% interest to reflect the inability to use the 
money as Mr and Mrs S wished at the time. She noted that Mr and Mrs S could  then use the 
compensation towards the new mortgage balance as an overpayment.
Mr and Mrs S agreed with the investigator, but Connells didnt. It said its offer had been 
based on the facts  of what  had been paid by Mr and Mrs S and what had happened. 
Connells said its method  of calculating the loss was fair and reasonable and should be 
applied. The investigator said that Connells had overlooked two weeks  of additional 
payments by Mr and Mrs S due to its delays and didnt change her view.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes, but to put the consumer back into 
the position that they shouldve been in if the mistake hadnt been made.
Theres no dispute between the parties about  the facts in this complaint. Connells let 
Mr and Mrs S down  by giving poor service, not communicating properly and critically by 
Ref: DRN53299612causing a delay in the new mortgage  starting. The dispute is about whether the offer from 
Connells fully compensates Mr and Mrs S for their financial loss. Theres  no dispute  about 
the amount offered for the undoubted trouble and upset suffered by them  (though £250 
looks fair and reasonable to me).
I agree  with the investigator that the two mortgages  are very different for the same reasons 
as she set out in her view. This means that its more complicated to compare them  to work  
out the financial loss, but not impossible.  The key points to bear in mind  is the date by when 
the new mortgage shouldve been in place and to use the mortgage balance  for the old 
mortgage at the time, not the mortgage  balance  for the larger  new mortgage.
The parties agree that the delay  was about  three months. The new mortgage was put in 
place mid-November,  but shouldve been in place by September. Thats three and a half 
months, and the calculation of financial loss should cover the period of 1 September 2018 to 
16 November 2018. The financial  loss Mr and Mrs S suffered is the difference  between  the 
interest they paid between these dates on the old mortgage, and the interest that wouldve 
been paid on the mortgage  balance of the old mortgage at the new rate of 1.99%.  This is 
what Connells should pay, together with 8% simple interest a year on the refund to reflect 
Mr and Mrs S inability  to use the money  as they wished.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs S said that they were pleased, but 
wanted to know  how much the calculation I set out above  would total. Connells provided this 
information and asked Mr and Mrs S if they wanted  to accept the offer. They  did and signed 
to confirm.
In light of this exchange  of correspondence between Mr and Mrs S and Connells, together  
with Connells failure to respond  to my provisional decision to this service directly,  I think its 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude  the parties  have  reached a settlement which is as set 
out in my provisional  decision. I also remain of the view that my provisional  decision is fair 
and reasonable and confirm it as my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Connells Limited should pay the 
difference between  the interest  paid by Mr and Mrs S on their old mortgage on the SVR 
between 1 September and 16 November 2018 and the amount they wouldve paid on the 
same balance at the rate of 1.99%, together with interest as outlined above. This sum should 
be paid within 28 days of notification of acceptance of this decision by Mr and Mrs S. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5329961