K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms A complain  about the actions  of HSBC UK Bank Plc when they were the victims 
of a scam.  
Ms A has done most of the correspondence  in relation to this complaint, so for ease of 
reading Ill mostly only refer to her. 
background
In 2018 Ms A came  across a travel agent who Ill refer to as F during an online search. She 
got in contact with them  as she was looking to book some flights. 
There was communication between  the staff of F and Ms A over a period of around two 
weeks. This took place  via email and on the phone and various options were  discussed. 
Ultimately F found some flights on an offer that met Ms As needs, so she proceeded to 
make the booking. F asked that the money  be sent via bank transfer.
Ms A attended her local HSBC branch and on 8 June 2018 she deposited £800  cash into her 
account before making a transfer for £712  to F using the details they provided. Ms A says 
shed initially  asked  to pay the money  directly into Fs account  but was told by HSBC it must 
first go into her account and then be transferred  across. She also says the cashier  asked 
who the money was going to and she replied  a travel agent. Ms A contacted F to let them 
know shed made  the payment as theyd  requested  and asked for confirmation it was 
received. 
On 13 June 2018 F let Ms A know that the airline had oversold the flights  and so 
unfortunately they wouldnt be able to honour  their offer. They  suggested some alternative 
flight dates for Ms A to consider. By 19 June 2018 Ms A had been having trouble speaking  to 
her contact at F and asked for a refund.  F apologised and told her that they would refund her 
 but that this would  take 15-20 days to process.  
Ms A never received  her refund and after further  unsuccessful attempts to contact F  
realised shed been the victim of a scam. She reported this to HSBC  on 8 August 2018.  
HSBC contacted the bank  whod received Ms As payment the same  day. Shortly afterwards, 
this bank reported that no funds remained.
Ms A complained to HSBC she doesnt think they did enough to protect her from being the 
victim of a scam. HSBC responded and in summary  said that theyd followed her instructions 
in sending the payment. And that theyd done all they could to try to recover her money. So, 
Ms A brought the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms As complaint. He sympathised with her position, but 
didnt think that HSBC missed signs that Ms A might have been  at risk of financial harm  in 
relation to the payment.  He also felt theyd acted promptly to try to recover the money,  but 
couldnt be held responsible for it no longer being  in the beneficiarys  account.
Ms A still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint. 
 
Ref: DRN57740602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Ms A gave her instructions to send the payment for £712  to F. So, the 
starting point is that HSBC should follow that instruction unless there are reasons why they 
ought to have had concerns that Ms A might be at risk of financial harm. 
Whilst £712 is a little more than Ms A commonly  withdrew from her account, I dont think  the 
amount itself was particularly unusual or out of character for Ms As regular account  activity. 
Ms As statements also show that she regularly  made transactions in branch, so operating 
the account in this way also wasnt unusual. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms A has told us about what  happened in the branch. But 
at that time Ms A believed  she was making  a genuine payment  for flights.  So, I dont think  its 
likely that Ms A would have appeared nervous or apprehensive or that there would have  
been anything  in her behaviour that could have indicated there was a problem with the 
transaction she was requesting. 
It appears that there was some conversation with the cashier during which  Ms A said the 
money was going  to a travel agent.  Ive no reason to doubt Ms As testimony as to what  was 
said. But again, I dont  think  her telling the cashier  that it was a payment to a travel agent is 
enough to have expected  HSBC to be concerned. Its quite plausible  that Ms A was making 
a payment towards a travel booking (as she believed she was doing  at the time). 
Once Ms A reported the fraud to HSBC  Im satisfied they acted  promptly  to try to recover her 
money from the beneficiary  bank. But unfortunately, the other  bank reported  that no funds 
remained. It is no fault of Ms As but scams  of this nature can take some time to come to 
light. And the scammer promising a refund that never arrived  is one example of this. This 
leaves the scammer  with ample time to remove the funds  before their victim is aware there  is 
a problem. 
Im really  sorry  to hear that Ms A has been  the victim of a cruel scam.  But unless there were 
signs that I think HSBC  ought  to have picked up on  indicating that she could  be in the 
process of being  defrauded   then I cant fairly ask them to reimburse  the funds. Ultimately 
the scammer  who perpetrated the crime is the responsible party and I dont think  HSBC  
missed an opportunity to prevent Ms A from becoming a victim in this way or did anything  to 
hinder her ability to recover the funds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 January  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5774060