K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with National House-Building Councils (NHBC) handling  and settlement 
of a claim made under her building  warranty.
background
Miss C purchased a property, and it came with an NHBC building  warranty  with around five 
years of the ten-year policy remaining. During  works  to the property, damp  was discovered 
and this was reported to NHBC. When NHBC visited to inspect the damp issue,  the kitchen 
had been removed and tanking had been  installed.  The flooring had also been lifted. 
NHBC asked one of its specialists to look into the damp issues  further, and the claim was 
accepted as valid under Section Three of the policy. NHBC subsequently offered a cash 
settlement for repairs to resolve the damp  problem,  and to fill the cracks in the floor.
Miss C was unhappy with being offered a cash settlement due to her circumstances, as she 
wasnt in a position to arrange for the works  to be carried out. She was also unhappy that the 
settlement offered didnt include the cost of the tanking shed  already  had installed,  a 
replacement kitchen or flooring. She also thought NHBC should  pay for alternative  
accommodation. So, Miss C complained  to NHBC.
NHBC upheld the complaint in part. They accepted  that they shouldnt have offered a cash 
settlement, and arranged  for their own contractors to carry out repairs. They  also offered 
£750 compensation. But NHBC didnt accept they were responsible  for the kitchen, tanking, 
flooring or alternative accommodation.
As Miss C was unhappy  with NHBCs response, she approached  this service. Our 
investigator looked into everything but didnt recommend NHBC do anything  further. She 
agreed NHBC shouldnt have offered a cash settlement, but thought arranging for their own 
contactors to complete repairs and offering £750  compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances. She also didnt think NHBC was responsible  for covering the other costs,  or 
alternative accommodation.
Miss C disagreed with our investigator  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask 
NHBC to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Id also like to mention that whilst  I havent  commented on every  event which  occurred, Id 
like to reassure both Miss C and NHBC that Ive considered all the information provided by 
both parties when reaching  my decision.
claim settlement
Miss C is unhappy with the claim settlement  offered  by NHBC. Whilst NHBC included  repair  
works to resolve the damp problem and cracks in the flooring, Miss C says NHBC should 
also pay for a replacement kitchen, flooring and tanking that she had installed.
Ref: DRN58449392But the tanking was installed, the kitchen removed,  and the flooring lifted before NHBC 
attended and inspected.  And whilst Miss C says she sent photos to NHBC and needed to do 
this, I do note it was only two days after being  first reported that NHBCs representative 
attended. And by this time, this had already been carried out. So NHBC didnt have an 
opportunity to see the kitchen or flooring or that it was damaged  by the damp. 
Having looked  at the schedule of works to resolve  the damp problem, this was mainly  
external works, which included removing the patio doors to get access.  These wouldnt have 
necessitated the removal of the kitchen, tanking  being installed or replacing the flooring. And 
there hasnt  been  any evidence  provided to show the kitchen and flooring were  damaged  as 
a result of the damp issue. Or that tanking was required in addition to the external works to 
resolve the damp issue  which was caused by an issue with the damp  proof course and 
cavity tray. 
Based on the evidence  provided, it hasnt been shown the kitchen or flooring were damaged 
as a result  of the damp,  or that tanking was needed to resolve  the damp problem. So, Im 
unable to conclude  NHBC should  cover the cost of replacing the kitchen, flooring or paying  
for tanking to be installed.
alternative accommodation
Miss C says NHBC  should pay for alternative  accommodation as the property was 
uninhabitable. And the policy does cover this if it is necessary for anyone  normally  living in 
the home to move  out, so that work covered by the policy can be completed.
But the property  didnt have a kitchen  or flooring because Miss Cs contractors removed  this, 
and other  extensive  works were already being  carried out, which included removing a wall 
between the kitchen and dining room. 
The works needed to resolve  the damp issue were external, so wouldnt have made the 
property uninhabitable themselves. So Im unable to say the property was uninhabitable 
solely because of the damp issue,  or due to the repairs that needed  to be carried  out to 
resolve it. So I cant say that NHBC is responsible for covering alternative accommodation 
for the damp  repairs  to take place.
I also note that Miss C feels the works  to the flooring would  have made the property 
uninhabitable as there were cracks  that needed filling  in different rooms and areas. NHBC 
has explained how the repairs would be carried out if the property  wasnt already 
unoccupied. Isolated repairs in each  room would have been  completed, requiring ventilating,  
rather than moving out of the property. Due to the way the resin was inserted into the floor,  
sealed in each area, the leakage into the atmosphere would have been limited.
Whilst I appreciate Miss C disagrees  with this due to her circumstances with children, Miss C 
already wasnt living  at the property at that time,  because of the rest of the works already 
being carried out, which included works unrelated  to the damp repairs.
So, based  on the evidence provided,  Im unable to conclude the property was uninhabitable  
solely because of the damp issue  or cracks in the floor, or the works needed to resolve  this. 
So I cant ask NHBC to pay for alternative  accommodation.
compensation
Ref: DRN58449393Its not in dispute  that NHBC should  have  taken into account Miss Cs circumstances and 
shouldnt have offered a cash  settlement  or expected Miss C to arrange  for the repairs  
herself. It also seems NHBC offered the cash settlement on the basis  Miss C had 
contractors in the property, which wasnt correct at that time as they were going to return  and 
carry on, after NHBC had completed the works  under  the claim.
But, NHBC has offered £750  to Miss C for this. And this was to take into account that this 
caused delays  in NHBCs repairs being  completed  overall. If they hadnt offered a cash 
settlement and had appointed a contractor in the first instance, then NHBCs repairs would 
have been completed much  sooner.  
I note Miss Cs view that if it werent  for the defect being present in the first place then she 
would have been able to move into the property sooner, as works would never have been 
required at all. But NHBC didnt build the house, and Im not able to consider the 
construction of the property by the builder, or sign off as complete, as that isnt a regulated 
activity, so doesnt fall within my remit. 
So I cant say that NHBC  should  compensate Miss C for there being a defect due to the way 
the builder constructed the property,  which necessitated repairs in the first place. 
Rather I can only consider  how NHBC has acted  when  dealing with the claim made under 
the policy, and here,  whether its handling  of this specifically caused  delays, rather  than the 
defect itself being present. And I think the level of compensation  NHBC has offered for this is 
reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask NHBC to increase this amount.
my final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5844939