K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the offer made  by Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) in settlement of 
his home  insurance  claim.
background 
Mr P lives abroad but owned a property in the UK, which he rented out. He held home
insurance for the property with Aviva.
In November 2015, Mr P was informed by the managing agent  for the property that wet and
dry rot had been discovered caused by a leaking  pipe. The tenant terminated  her lease and
moved out of the property in January 2016.
In February 2016  Mr P returned to the UK to assess the damage  and made a claim under
his home  insurance  policy. This claim was accepted, and a project manager was appointed
to oversee the claim. Mr P stayed in the UK until May 2016 when he returned to his
residence abroad.
Mr P returned to the UK in April 2017 with his wife, but the property was still uninhabitable as
there was no bathroom, kitchen or utilities. So Mr P and his wife stayed in hotels until the
property became inhabitable in May 2017.  The repairs were completed a short  time later in
June 2017, after which Mr P intended to sell the property.
Mr P says he sent his receipts to Aviva  in January 2018 in order for his claim to be settled.
These expenses included amounts for flights,  accommodation, meals,  loss of rental income,
car hire and materials for work  Mr P carried out himself. The total amount Mr P submitted
was around £40,000. He didnt receive  a response so raised a complaint in August 2018.
In October  2018 Aviva  said it hadnt  received receipts from Mr P but made  him an offer to
settle the claim for a total of £20,000. Mr P asked for a breakdown of this amount but Aviva
didnt provide one. Mr P remained  unhappy  with the settlement and the lack of details
around it. And also with the length of time it had taken to deal with this issue and the lack of
contact from Aviva.
Aviva says it cant provide  a breakdown  of the offer in this instance and that the offer of
£20,000 is a contribution towards Mr Ps expenses. Aviva says Mr P has claimed for items it
isnt willing  to cover, including  accommodation and meals for his wife who isnt a policy
holder and has never lived at the property,  so it has offered a contribution towards  his total
costs, which  it believes  to be more  than fair.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In short, she said the offer
of £20,000 was generally fair but that Aviva  should also pay the additional costs for Mr Ps
wife for a short period that Aviva  has specifically agreed to. The investigator also thought
that Mr P hadnt always received a good level of customer service  and said Aviva  should pay 
£200 compensation for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 June 2020  letting both parties know  that I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part. In it, I said:
Having reviewed Mr Ps detailed breakdown of his expenses, I dont think several of the
items are covered under  the terms of the policy and I havent seen sufficient evidence to
Ref: DRN54820422suggest that Aviva agreed to cover  all the expenses Mr P is claiming for.
loss of rent, alternative accommodation  and food allowance
A large  portion of Mr Ps claim is for loss of rent, alternative accommodation and for food as
his property was uninhabitable, and he had to stay in hotels.
Mr Ps policy  states:
If the home is damaged  by any cause covered under The Buildings  cover...we  will also pay:
a.Rent payable to you;
b.Any reasonable additional  accommodation expenses...
When we refer to 'reasonable accommodation  expenses' in this section this means that
we will pay for alternative accommodation for you and your domestic  pets taking all of
the circumstances of your claim into account, including  factors such  as your own needs,
the alternative (and comparable costs of) accommodation available in the area and the
length of time for which it is required."
Mr P has claimed for both loss of rent and alternative  accommodation but generally Id
expect that only one of these is claimed. Either the property should have been  inhabited  by a
tenant or Mr P who required alternative accommodation, or the property was unable to be
rented out and therefore Mr P has lost out on rent for the period. If Aviva  paid for both of
these costs, Mr P would be in a significantly better  position than he otherwise would have
been so Aviva has raised concerns about  Mr P claiming for both of these and isnt willing  to
cover these costs.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree that I havent seen any evidence  to suggest Aviva
should cover  the costs  for loss of rent that Mr P has claimed for. Mr P didnt have a tenant in
the property at the beginning  of the claim  and there  is no evidence that he had a potential
tenant lined  up or that he intended to rent the property out. And, in fact, Mr P appears  to
have made  it clear to Aviva that he intended  to sell the property when the works  were
completed. And even if Aviva were  to consider some of Mr Ps claim for loss of rent, it is
clear that there were times  where it seems Mr P held up the progress of the claim due to the
a lack of response  or because he needed to make a choice of particular  items  - and I cant
hold Aviva responsible  for those periods of time. So I dont think Aviva  needs to make  a
payment for loss of rent.
Aviva has already considered Mr Ps expenses for alternative accommodation and has
explained that it wont cover the costs Mr P incurred  for his wife and will only cover  Mr Ps
costs as he is the policy holder and has previously lived at the property. Mr Ps wife has
never lived at the property, so I am satisfied that Aviva doesnt need to pay her alternative
accommodation costs.  Having said this, many of the accommodation costs  appear to have
been the same or very similar whether Aviva considers Mrs Ps costs or not.
I can see that Aviva specifically agreed to cover the cost of both Mr Ps accommodation and
his wifes accommodation for four nights so I would  expect that Aviva honoured this.
However, taking the overall offer into consideration, I think  this aspect has already been
considered by Aviva in the wholistic offer it has given Mr P. I will address  the overall offer
later in my decision.
Mr P has also claimed significant expenses  for food during  his stay in the UK. But having
Ref: DRN54820423looked at the expenses  Mr P is claiming  for, these seem to include amounts for his wife, who
Aviva has confirmed it is not willing to pay for. It is also clear to me that many of the meals
were for leisure purposes and that Mr P has often choses to eat in restaurants that were
more expensive than necessary. I am also conscious that Mr P would usually have been
incurring food costs,  but this wasnt  the case during these periods. So while  I would expect
Aviva to make a contribution towards  the amount Mr P incurred for food costs,  I dont  think it
would be fair for Aviva to cover the entire amount.
flight costs
Mr P has claimed a significant  amount  for the cost of flights  to the UK. He has claimed for
the cost of two trips, but I havent seen any evidence that Aviva agreed to contribute
anything towards the first trip, which appears  to have been made prior to Mr P reporting the
claim or discussing  it with Aviva. So I dont think Aviva is responsible for the costs of the first
trip.
Aviva has also confirmed  that it will not contribute towards the cost of Mrs Ps flights  to and
from the UK as she wasnt  on the policy and has never lived in the property - so there was
no reason she needed  to travel. Having  considered  this, I think Avivas  decision is fair as I
can see no reason that Mrs Ps travel expenses were essential, and I think  Aviva only needs
to cover costs that were essential  to this claim.
Having considered the remaining costs,  I can see from Mr Ps email  that he has chosen to fly
business class  and this appears to have cost him significantly more than his previous
journey. While Mr P is entitled  to choose to do this, I wouldnt expect Aviva to cover the costs
of any unnecessary added extras unless it has specifically agreed to do this, which I cant
see it has here.
Mr P has also included  the costs he incurred as a result of changing these business class
tickets so he could  return at a later date, I have seen correspondence  between Mr P and
Aviva which specifically states this wont be covered and that Aviva is not willing  to cover
these costs. So I see no reason Aviva  should  pay for these costs.
flooring and other additional items
Mr P has raised some other items to be included in the claim. Ive seen the correspondence
between Mr P and Aviva  in relation to the flooring and I can see that it was agreed that Aviva
wouldnt replace  the flooring as Mr P wanted  to install  significantly improved flooring
throughout the damaged  area. So Aviva has agreed  to contribute  to this. Aviva has
estimated that it would have cost it around £800  to replace all the flooring Mr P is claiming
for on a like-for-like basis and so that is the amount is has considered when looking at this
aspect of the claim - although this is taken into account as part of the holistic  offer made,
which I will address further later in the decision.
Mr P has also now included  the costs of his new kitchen and for the refurbishing the kitchen
doors, which were originally intended to be used in the replacement  kitchen,  it seems  dear
to me that Mr P had the doors refurbished as it was intended that these items would be used
when refurbishing the kitchen - I cant  see any other reason that Mr P would  pay to have
these items  restored. So I would have expected Aviva to take these into account in its
settlement.
Mr P has now also included  the costs of his new kitchen in his claim. Aviva has confirmed
Ref: DRN54820424that this part of the claim was already considered,  and it explained  to Mr P at the time that he
would have to pay towards the costs of replacing the kitchen as he didnt  have matching
items cover. Therefore  Aviva only agreed to cover the costs  of the units  that were damaged
and make a contribution towards the additional  costs. Aviva has also said that Mr P has
chosen a better-quality kitchen than was in place before and I have seen correspondence
confirming that Mr P at one time opted for a granite  worktop, which Aviva wasnt willing  to
consider. So while I would  expect Aviva to take the cost of the kitchen  into account and
make a contribution  towards the additional  costs of the cabinets, I dont think  it needed  to
pay for the replacement kitchen as it seems dear Mr P wanted to install  a new,  better quality
kitchen in preparation for selling the property.
tools and car hire
Mr P has claimed for the cost of tools for work he did himself and for the cost of car hire
while he was in the UK. Aviva has said it wont cover these costs.
I have considered Mr Ps comments about the tools and I dont doubt that Mr P needed to 
purchase these. However Aviva has never  agreed  to reimburse him for these items and was 
intending to carry  out most of the works  itself.  The only works it hasnt carried  out seem to be 
where Mr P has chosen to do the works himself - and as that was Mr Ps choice, I dont think 
Aviva needs  to cover the cost of the tools. Aviva has also said that Mr P was doing work to 
the rest of the property at the same time to get it ready to sell so I dont think these  costs  
need to be covered by Aviva.
Mr P has claimed for the costs of his car hire while he was in the UK but again, I havent
seen any evidence that Aviva agreed to cover these  costs. And while  I have no doubt that
Mr P would have used the car to drive  to the house,  it also seems he used the car for
personal trips during his stay.  So I dont  think it would be fair to ask Aviva  to cover  this cost
when it hasnt agreed to do so, and Mr P has used the car for personal  trips not related to 
the claim.
the offer
Aviva has made an offer of £20,000  in this claim. Mr P would like a breakdown of how it has
come to this figure, but it seems that Aviva has taken a wholistic  approach to the claim and
estimated what it believes  to be a reasonable contribution  towards the costs Mr P incurred
during this claim.
Mr Ps policy  doesnt cover the cost of many  of the expenses Mr P incurred but nonetheless
Aviva has agreed to make a contribution towards  these costs.  The expenses  Mr P incurred
are difficult  to calculate as there are items he claimed for which are above  and beyond  what
was necessary for him to assist with the claim for the damage the wet and dry rot caused to
the property. There  are many items, like the flights that are very difficult  to estimate because
I would only expect Aviva to contribute towards Mr Ps essential costs  in travelling to and
from the UK if it agreed to - not for the cost of him travelling in business class  or for
changing his flight to a later date.
As these  expenses are difficult  to break  down and provide an exact  figure for, I think  it is fair
on this occasion  for Aviva  to make an offer which takes account of all the items and
expenses it has agreed to pay. Having said this, I dont think  Aviva  communicated  its
reasons for not providing a breakdown to Mr P or that it explained adequately why it reached
the figure of £20,000. So I think it has caused  unnecessary distress and inconvenience  to
Ref: DRN54820425Mr P and I agree with the investigator that it should pay him £200 compensation for this.
I have considered the items that I think Aviva should reimburse Mr P for and, taking into
account all of the above. I have also considered  that it is likely  Mr P would have needed to
return to the UK in any event as he was intending  to sell the property. So taking all of that
into account, I think the £20,000 is a fair amount which represents an appropriate
contribution to the costs Mr P incurred as a result of returning back  to the UK for the
purposes of the claim.
As Mr P has been without  these funds for a significant amount of time, I think  Aviva  should
pay him interest on the settlement  figure  it has offered - so Ive considered  the dates this
should be paid for. Mr P says he provided Aviva  with receipts for this claim in January 2018
but I havent seen a record of this. And reviewing Avivas system  notes  from the time, it looks
like chaser emails were sent to Mr P after this date to ask him to provide the final invoices so
the claim could be settled. But it didnt receive a response from Mr P, so it closed the claim.
Aviva received further details in August and made an offer to Mr P in October  2018  and Mr P
has been without  the funds since that date so I think it should  pay interest from then.
Aviva responded to reiterate that Mr Ps wife wasnt on the policy and therefore was not 
covered and reiterated its offer of £20,000. Mr P responded with several points he disagreed 
with and, while he conceded some of the points that had been made, he said that he still 
thinks the settlement  should be nearly £50,000.  So the complaint has been  passed back  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as in my provisional decision.
Having considered the additional points Mr P raised,  I believe many  of these have already 
been made previously  and I have already taken them into account and addressed  them in 
my provisional decision  so they dont change my thoughts on the case,  and I wont  repeat 
my reasoning at length here.
However, having reviewed Mr Ps comments,  there are some  areas  I would like to clarify.
In regard to loss of rent, I believe this is the main area that Mr P has disputed. Having 
reviewed the evidence, I havent  received anything additional from Mr P that has persuaded 
me that Aviva needs to cover loss of rent for the period  in question.  Mr P had previously let 
the property but hasnt  been able to evidence  the loss here. There  is no evidence that Mr P 
attempted to put the property back on the market or approached a letting agent in 
anticipation of the property being completed. Aviva says that Mr P repeatedly  made it aware 
that it was his intention to sell the property at the end of the works  and I can see that is 
what he did. So I dont think I have sufficient  evidence  to suggest that this element of his 
claim needs to be included in the settlement.
Mr P has said that he maintains he was unable to live in his property when he returned to the 
UK and, if his property  was intended  to be let out then he never would  have been  able to live 
in his property  as he would have had a tenant so the costs hes incurred would have been  
expended in any case. But here I think the opposite  is true, Mr P hasnt show that he 
intended to let out the property during that period  so he could therefore reasonably  assume 
Ref: DRN54820426the property would be habitable for him and his wife during their time in the UK. As that 
wasnt the case, I think its fair that Aviva  covers these costs  for example his 
accommodation costs.
I have also reconsidered  Mr Ps costs in relation  to the kitchen. I realise that Mr P needed to 
have the entire kitchen  replaced as Aviva  was unable to match the existing  one, but I have 
considered the terms of the policy. These state  that Aviva will not pay for the cost of 
replacing any undamaged items with form part ofa  set.
However in situations  like this, we would generally  consider  that it would be a fair 
compromise for Aviva to make a 50% contribution towards this cost. Aviva was unable to 
source a like-for-like kitchen, but Mr P has had the benefit of marketing the property with a 
new, matching kitchen. So based  on that, I would generally say a 50% contribution towards  
this would be fair. Here, I can see Aviva  has offered to contribute towards these costs, 
although an exact breakdown hasnt been provided.
Mr P has raised several other issues in his response, but I dont think  I need  to reconsider 
those as he hasnt  raised  any new issues that change my initial  thoughts. And even if I 
agreed with all the points he had raised,  I would still reach the outcome that the settlement of 
£20,000 would be fair taking into account my findings above. So I dont think  its necessary 
to comment on each  issue here. Rather, I have reconsidered the offer made by Aviva  and 
remain of the opinion that I havent seen any evidence that the settlement offered by Aviva is 
unfair.
I have, however, considered the compensation that I have suggested. And it is clear  that 
Aviva has caused a significant amount  of distress and inconvenience  as a result  of refusing 
to provide a breakdown of the items it is covering.  And while I can understand  that many  of 
the items  Mr P is claiming for arent  covered, I think Aviva could have been clearer in its 
explanation to him. So taking this into account,  I think the compensation  should  be increased  
to £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P through  Avivas actions.
Mr P has said that he retains the right to pursue  certain aspects of this case through  the 
courts. This service is unable to give legal advice  but as a final decision is binding  on both 
parties if accepted,  I would suggest  that he takes  legal advice in relation to this before  
accepting the final decision  if he wishes  to pursue the matter through  the courts. I have 
extended the response time for this decision in order to allow  him to seek  any advice he 
needs before deciding  whether to accept or reject  my decision.
putting things right
Aviva should  put things  right by:
Paying Mr P the £20,000  it has already offered to him
Paying interest  on the above  figure at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date it
offered the settlement  to the date it makes  the payment
Paying Mr P total compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused
to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited  should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Ref: DRN54820427Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5482042