K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a bank account Mr D holds with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). Hes unhappy that NatWest  placed a freeze on a number of faster payments he 
made to another bank, and didnt  contact him to check they were in order. The money  was 
only released hours later when Mr D called  the bank himself.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some  
instances, have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Another reason  I have  left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  the 
consumer when my decision is published.  I know that is a particular concern to Mr D, which 
is why I have referred to him by a different  initial from his own. Quite  simply,  the published 
form of my decision  will contain  none  of Mr Ds personal data.
On the morning of 1 March 2019,  Mr D made several faster payment transfers from his 
NatWest account to a recently-opened savings account with another  bank. He expected the 
payments to appear  in the savings  account almost immediately, but they didnt. Mr D 
continued to check  throughout  the day, but still the payments hadnt shown up in his savings 
account. They were,  however,  showing  as having left his NatWest account.
In the afternoon, after about  nine hours  of worry and stress, Mr D called NatWest.  He was 
put through to a member  of the fraud team, who explained that the banks automated fraud 
system had placed  a block on the transactions. He released the money to Mr Ds savings 
account and then passed Mr D over to the complaints  department. 
Mr D was very unhappy with how his complaint  was dealt  with. The case-handler  just offered 
him £50 compensation (and paid it into his account despite him refusing it) and wouldnt give 
his surname. Mr D referred  his complaint to us. He thought that £250 was a fairer amount of 
compensation for the stress and worry hed experienced throughout the day.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong  in blocking the transactions; 
the terms and conditions of the account  allowed it to do so. But she thought  the bank could 
have been more alert and sensitive to Mr Ds obvious distress when dealing  with his 
concerns over the phone.  She recommended NatWest pay Mr D an additional £50, making  
£100 in all. NatWest agreed  to this but Mr D asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN51023142Im very much aware that Mr D has had to wait a long time for us to provide him with a 
determination of his complaint. Im sorry that this has happened,  and I offer my apologies to 
Mr D on behalf of the service.
Mr D has raised  additional  concerns about how the investigator dealt with his complaint, and 
I understand that there has since been  an exchange of correspondence  with the relevant 
manager. Here, though,  my focus is on the subject-matter of the underlying complaint 
against NatWest.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Mr D has said that hed like a discussion with me about his complaint before I determine it. 
That wouldnt be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr D a one-sided personal hearing 
to press his case directly without the business being involved and being able to contribute.  
On the rare occasions we conduct  a direct hearing,  it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching  a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present.  Anything  else would be procedurally  unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said in the background, If I dont  
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  
context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide whats  fair in the round.
Ill start with a general point. Having no regulatory  function means its not up to me to tell 
NatWest how it should  design and run its fraud  detection and prevention  systems.  I can only 
assess how those systems impacted on Mr D on 1 March  2019, and decide if NatWest has 
responded fairly and reasonably to the complaint. 
The judgement on whether the transactions represented a potential fraud risk isnt mine  to 
make; its NatWests. Mr D clearly disagrees with the judgement that was made (and in 
particular with the way it was made  by computer algorithm) and of course hes completely 
entitled to do so. But its not my role to second  guess that judgement, make a different  one 
of my own and impose it on NatWest.  
Mr D takes issue with NatWest saying its aim is to call consumers within 72 hours; he says 
that time-frame isnt mentioned in the terms and conditions. I wouldnt  expect  it to be; its a 
service level issue, and whether or not its achieved  goes  to the issue of fair treatment, not 
adherence or otherwise  to the account  terms. After all, if the terms and conditions dont 
specify a time-frame, then failing to keep to one cant be a breach of the terms and 
Ref: DRN51023143conditions. I also note that the account  terms say the bank will usually  contact the 
customer; not that it always  will in every  instance.
I dont mean  this unkindly, but if Mr D doesnt have  confidence  in NatWests approach to 
fraud detection and prevention, or its customer service, then ultimately  the sanction lies with 
him. He is free to move his account  to another  bank. What isnt an option  is for this service  
generally, or me especially, to tell NatWest it must  apply its fraud systems  to Mr Ds account 
on his terms. 
What I can do is decide  if NatWests response to the complaint was fair and proportionate. 
Once Mr D spoke with the Fraud team in mid-afternoon, NatWest  released the money  
straight away. Of course it would have  been a better outcome for Mr D if NatWest had called 
him before he called it, because he would have been spared a lot of worry. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business doesnt meet a consumers 
expectations, were not the regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our 
awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change  what  happened. 
NatWest has apologised, paid Mr D £50 compensation and agreed  to pay him £50 more.  
Having considered everything  Im satisfied thats a fair outcome. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the determination with which  Mr D has brought 
the complaint.  He sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank  has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively,  sometimes  taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what  Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mr Ds favour to the extent he clearly  
thinks I should.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part by 
ordering National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr D £50, making  £100  in all. I dont make  
any other order or award.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5102314