K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1996. Miss F says NRAM Limited (NRAM)  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss F took out a PPI policy in 1996 to cover  her mortgage repayments  if she was unable  to 
work because of illness, injury or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld in full. Miss F disagrees so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 14 February 2019  I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Miss F has re-iterated  that she didnt know the 
policy was optional and that she had sufficient  employee benefits  and other  means that 
meant she didnt need  the PPI. NRAM has not made  any additional submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  the following.  
Currently, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Miss F says NRAM did not explain  to her the policy  was optional. NRAM says it wouldve 
made the optional  nature  of the PPI clear  and sought Miss Fs consent  before adding it to 
the account. Where  there is a dispute  like this, I have to decide  what I think  is more likely 
based on all the evidence available including Miss Fs testimony  in addition to the 
documents that are still available.
Ive seen a copy  of the PPI application  form Miss F signed. A box is ticked requesting full 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment  there were less extensive cover options  
available. The boxes  checking her eligibility have also been completed and a benefit  amount 
of £200 has been requested. Shes also signed  a direct debit mandate for the PPI premium 
to be taken. Ive seen a copy of a welcome  letter sent to Miss F which  made it clear shed 
taken PPI with an insurance  schedule attached setting out the cost and benefit of the policy.
Nothing in any of these documents suggests the PPI was compulsory.
While Miss F feels that NRAM didnt make  it clear the policy was optional,  she hasnt said 
much more than this  and I have to bear in mind this policy was sold over 20 years  ago. 
And even  the best of memories can fade over that timeframe.  So I dont think  itd be 
reasonable to uphold  a complaint  solely  based on limited recollections from 20 years ago.
Bearing in mind everything Ive seen, I think its more likely NRAM  made it clear  Miss F didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN59668112NRAM recommended the PPI to Miss F so it had to check the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover.
Based on what Ive seen,  Miss F also seems to have had a need  for the cover. Miss F told 
us she had six months full sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay provided by her 
employer. Shes also mentioned she had some savings and her parents couldve helped her 
too.
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her employee benefits  for up to 12 months if 
Miss F was unable to work because of illness  or injury  so potentially longer than her full 
sick pay wouldve lasted. It also provided up to 12 months of cover for unemployment. And 
having the policy wouldve left her sick pay and savings  available for Miss F to use on other 
essential expenditure. And while I have no doubt her parents  wouldve wanted to help her, 
their ability to help wouldve depended  on their circumstances  at the time which couldve 
changed. So I still think the PPI couldve been useful for her.
Its possible the information NRAM gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable.
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence  of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious.  Based  on everything  Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means NRAM doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
Change in circumstances
Miss F has added that she became a student  in 2002 and as she could no longer claim on 
the policy she feels NRAM  shouldve  cancelled the policy.  She says NRAM was aware that 
she was a student. NRAM says it is up to Miss F to review the policy  as her circumstances 
changed, and cancel the policy if she no longer required it. In any event, the policy was 
cancelled in 2002, so I dont think Miss F has lost out as a result of her circumstances 
changing in 2002.
2003 policy
I understand Miss F took a further  advance in 2003  and feels  she was also mis-sold PPI at 
this time as she doesnt think PPI was right for her. She has sent in a copy  of a letter  NRAM 
sent to her with a PPI application  form. NRAM has sent in a copy of its response to Miss Fs 
PPI application  explaining her application for PPI had been declined as she was no longer 
living in the property purchased so wasnt eligible for cover. NRAM also confirmed  that it can 
find no record of a policy actually being set up.
So, although  Miss F mightve  applied for PPI, as her application was rejected  and no policy  
was set up in 2003,  it doesnt look like Miss F has suffered a loss in this respect.
commission
Ref: DRN59668113But NRAM will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because:
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because NRAM didnt tell 
Miss F, that was unfair.
To put that right, NRAM has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
As explained above, Miss F has replied  to my provisional decision disagreeing as she still 
feels the policy was mis-sold. Shes highlighted the difficulties  with proving what she was told 
and feels NRAM should have to prove it had explained the policy was optional. She trusted 
the bank and completed the forms based  on what  she was told to do by NRAMs 
representative so she doesnt feel these are sufficient  to show the policy was optional. 
Finally Miss F has re-iterated that she had enough  employee benefits and savings so she 
didnt require PPI at all. 
I appreciate what Miss F has said about the difficulties  in proving what she was told during 
her dealings with NRAM. But I hope shell understand that I was not present at the meeting  
and so cannot know what happened. But as explained in my provisional decision, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on what Ive seen and heard. 
And Miss F has signed the documents to confirm her selections   this is evidence  from the 
time of sale which  holds significant weight.  I would add that the PPI application form was a 
separate form to the mortgage form so I think its clear it was a separate  product. And her 
mortgage offer also specifies that home insurance is a condition  of her mortgage.  As it 
doesnt say PPI is also a condition  of the mortgage,  if she had been led to believe it wasnt 
optional, she could  have  questioned why this was not on the mortgage offer. 
So while I have considered her testimony  carefully,  overall, Im still not persuaded that it was 
not made clear  the policy was optional. 
And I have  again  thought about  Miss Fs employee  benefits and savings. But as explained  in 
my provisional decision, I still think if shed  lost her job, or been unable  to work because  of 
illness or injury, having her PPI pay her mortgage repayments wouldve been  helpful. 
Overall, I think the recommendation from NRAM was reasonable, and Im satisfied  the PPI 
was set out as optional.  It was then up to Miss F to accept or decline the PPI bearing in mind 
her wider  financial  circumstances.  And if shed  felt she didnt need or want  it, she couldve 
declined it at the time. 
So having  again reviewed Miss Fs case in full  without any new points for me to consider, I 
find no reason to depart from my original  findings  as set out in my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NRAM should also pay back to Miss F any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN59668114NRAM should pay back to Miss F the extra she paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should  also pay Miss F 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss F can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NRAM Limited  does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss F.
But NRAM Limited have  to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5966811