K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the decision by Phoenix Wealth Services  Limited 
(Phoenix), previously known as AXA Wealth Services Limited (AXA),  to remove a key 
feature from their Family SunTrust - the non-proportionate allocation  of growth facility. They 
say AXA gave no indication that the option  was being looked into by HMRC or that there was 
a possibility it may be removed. Because of this they feel they lost the opportunity to take 
appropriate action  to prevent them incurring a large  tax liability.
Background
The AXA Family SunTrust (FST) allowed individual pensions to be grouped together  and 
investment growth  to be re-allocated between the members  pensions on a non- 
proportionate basis. In the paperwork Ive seen this facility is referred to as the flexibility 
option. To keep  things simple thats how I will refer to it in the rest of this decision.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs C set up the FST and applied to vary the terms to invoke the flexibility  
option. Mr C has said the flexibility option  was the reason they chose this product.
In August  2016  AXA sent Mr C a letter explaining that with effect from 2 September  2016 the 
flexibility option of the FST was to be withdrawn. It said:
Consequently, we periodically review Family SunTrust to ensure that we continue  to be 
satisfied that the Flexibility option remains suitable for clients  and in line with the evolving 
regulatory and tax environment. Unfortunately, in our most recent review we concluded that 
it was no longer appropriate for us to continue to offer the flexibility option.
AXA said from 2 September 2016 all allocations  of investment growth would take place on a 
proportionate basis.
Mr C has explained that until that point he had not been made aware that there could be a 
problem with the flexibility option or that there  was a likelihood it could be withdrawn. Hes 
also said that while AXA may have notified the advisers of those placing new schemes in 
2015 and 2016 it didnt  inform its existing FST clients of HMRC enquiries and it should have 
done. He feels  that had he known  about  this in April 2016 he would have taken different 
action which  would have  avoided him a £250,000  tax penalty.
Mr C feels  the decision AXA made  to withdraw  the flexibility  option was made because of the 
upcoming sale of part of its business  to Phoenix  and in withdrawing the flexibility  option  it put 
its needs and interest  above those of its clients.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who felt it couldnt  be upheld. He 
was of the view that AXA had made a legitimate commercial decision in line with the terms 
and conditions of the scheme.
I issued my provisional findings in August 2020 where I explained  why I didnt think  the 
complaint could be upheld. An extract is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
The terms and conditions  of the FST state:
[AXA] has the right to decide  that the provisions set out in the Operative provisions in part 3 
of the document [i.e. the provision of the flexibility option] will cease to apply [AXA] can 
exercise this right only if there are changes in, or [our] interpretation changes  of, applicable 
Ref: DRN53664942pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice. [AXA]  can 
exercise this right upon giving.30 days written notice so far as practicable to do so.
So, I am satisfied that AXA had the ability to remove the flexibility  option if it met the criteria 
in the terms and conditions. I have next considered whether AXA did indeed meet the criteria  
mentioned above.  In particular, did it change its interpretation of the applicable pension laws 
and regulation. To do this I have looked  at the history of AXAs involvement and dealings  
with the FST.
AXA has provided me with information concerning the development of the FST as well as 
the communications that took place between AXA and HMRC regarding  the flexibility  option. 
I have seen:
The template  letters  from the AXA FST manager  to advisers where  the scheme was 
applied for /or had been taken out. These are dated 2015 and 2016.
The timeline of the development  of the FST scheme, provided by AXA.
Letters between HMRC and the FST team at AXA from May 2015 to July 2015 
discussing the scheme and more specifically  the flexibility  option.
The confidential reports to AXA from legal  counsel regarding the flexibility option.
From this information I can see that:
AXA started to look into the feasibility of launching the product in late 2006. In light of 
HMRC legislation  and after legal advice it launched the FST on a limited basis  in 
March 2008 and launched it fully in February 2009.
Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point in time HMRCs  
view was that the flexibility option was within the rules, but it was noted that HMRC 
provided no guarantees that position  wouldnt  change in the future.
For the next few years, until 2015 the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the 
scheme and despite some changes to pension regulation over these years  AXA 
remained satisfied that HMRC  was content with the scheme and that its flexibility  
option was within  the relevant rules. This included further legal opinion in 2013  
indicating that the environmental  risk in the area of pensions had increased but that 
the underlying  legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA decided  to continue  
operation of the FST unchanged.
However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the 
pooled growth  in the scheme was allocated  to its members. This appears to have 
been prompted by an increase in pension liberation scams (a type of fraud). AXAs  
response tried to reassure HMRC  about the flexibility option, but HMRC advised that 
it had concerns over the model  being used to allocate growth  and it felt that this could  
be contrary to sections  172 (Assignment of benefits) and/or 172A (Surrender of 
benefits) of the Finance  Act 2004.
Because of these  concerns, HMRC  stopped registering new schemes.
There was a further meeting between AXA and HMRC in September  2015.
HMRC resumed registration of the FST in October 2015. In the same  month  AXA 
issued communications  to advisers  that registration of the FST had resumed but its 
discussions with HMRC  were ongoing  and all features  of the product couldnt be 
guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were invited to withdraw  applications 
from new clients.
Again  in the same month AXA obtained  further  legal opinion  in response to specific 
points HMRC raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September  2015.
Ref: DRN53664943This led to AXA writing to HMRC  in October 2015 asking it to withdraw  their 
objections in light of its most recent legal opinion.
There then followed much discussion between  AXA and HMRC.  And AXA again 
sought legal  advice during this period.
In January 2016 AXA issued second  communications to advisers informing them  that 
HMRC continued to investigate elements of the FST and that registration of the new 
schemes was at their own risk.
However, because  of the continued HMRC investigations AXA closed the FST to 
new business in May 2016.
In June 2016 HMRC  advised AXA its investigations were continuing.
In July 2016 AXA obtained  further legal opinion. The finding of this was that the risk 
environment within the area of pension had changed and more notably that HMRC 
continued to investigate the FST position  even  after submission in October 2015 of 
legal opinion  and evidence that supported the flexibility option of the FST.
Later that month the Board  of AXA made  the decision that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue with the interpretation  that disproportionate  allocation  of 
growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it was at that time.
Taking account of this information, Im satisfied  AXA had been carefully considering the 
nature of the flexibility option for some time. It also appears to have engaged quite heavily 
with HMRC over the years to ensure it was being  compliant with HMRCs thinking and 
relevant regulation as well as seeking legal opinion  when it felt prudent.  I therefore dont 
I think this decision was made quickly without careful consideration. Im satisfied it followed a 
genuine change  in AXAs  interpretation of applicable  pensions, tax or other law, legislation, 
regulation or industry codes of practice.  And while I appreciate this happened  around the 
same time as the sale to Phoenix  was progressing, I think this was mere coincidence rather 
than central to the decision  to withdraw the feature.
I also note that AXA gave notice on 2 August 2016,  which was just over 30 days  before the 
option was officially  withdrawn (on 2 September 2016), as required by the terms and 
conditions. I therefore  dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably  when it withdrew the 
flexibility option and it acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it did so.
Turning now to the issue of what was communicated  to Mr C by AXA, I know he feels  that 
AXA would have  known  in April 2016 that the flexibility option was going to be withdrawn but 
from all I have seen, and as illustrated above,  I am satisfied  that AXA didnt know  it was 
going to withdraw  the flexibility option until it received  the legal report in July 2016.
From the details I have  set out it can be seen that AXA sought many legal reports  over the 
years which supported the flexibility option and also it seems  to have challenged HMRC over 
the course of its enquiries. And given HMRC had recommenced registering new schemes in 
late 2015 after suspending registration for a short time its not unreasonable,  in my view,  that 
AXA felt nothing was going to change  in relation to the flexibility  option. AXA was also still 
accepting new FST business at that time.  So I dont  think AXA was in a position to make  any 
indication about  the withdrawal of the flexibility option at any point before it received the legal 
report in July 2016. And I am satisfied that in April 2016 and indeed until the decision to 
withdraw was made, HMRCs position  regarding the flexibility  option  remained unresolved.
Furthermore, AXA had made it clear  in the FSTs  terms and conditions that the flexibility  
option couldnt be guaranteed to remain in place. So this should  have been something Mr C 
was already aware of and is something  he and his adviser should have kept in mind  when 
making decision about his FST and ongoing pension planning.
Ref: DRN53664944So while I appreciate Mr Cs frustration  at the withdrawal of the flexibility option, I think  AXA 
withdrew this in line with its terms. And I think it was reasonable for AXA to have advised its 
customers into 2016 that the scheme  continued to comply with HMRC pension  rules. This 
reassurance came with the previous warnings that this feature couldnt be guaranteed to 
always remain in place.  And that it was only when confirmation was received in June 2016 
that HMRC continued with its investigations  that led to the further legal  opinion  in July 2016 
and then the subsequent  withdrawal of the feature.
AXA confirmed it has received the provisional decision and accepted the findings.
Mr and Mrs C responded  with the following  points:
There was a lack of information  provided  to existing customers;  Mr C feels it was 
clear that existing customers were not treated (in terms of warning statements) as 
new customers from late 2015 onwards. There were differing communication 
standards depending  of the status  (new or existing) and that must  be wrong. He feels  
existing clients were  being kept in the dark.
AXA stopped  accepting new investors for the flexibility option  before the supposedly 
key legal opinion  update  in July. This strongly suggests that knowledge of a possible  
change of position was known well before the events of June  and July that are now 
seemingly being held out by AXA as being  the game changers.  And if new investors 
were stopped in May  then surely  updated risk information could, and should, have 
been provided to existing  clients making changes in April. 
How can an opinion (and one that had been considered many times) change so 
dramatically from September 2015  to July 2016.  Mr C is of the view that a scheme  
either materially complies with the relevant HMRC rules or it does not and that the 
whole point of an opinion is surely to deal with the risk of a challenge. What would 
be the point of an opinion that stated that it only held good so long as it wasnt ever 
going to be challenged  surely an opinion  is worthless if it cannot  stand up to a 
challenge.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I have taken 
account of all of the comments  Mr and Mrs C have provided, I am not persuaded to change 
my initial outcome.
Mr C has questioned why there wasnt a change  to the level of risk (regarding  the HMRC 
challenge) advised to existing clients in the same  way as it was to new clients  at such time.
In my view, it should have  been at the forefront of an existing clients mind,  if the flexibility  
options was an important feature for them, that it could be withdrawn under certain 
circumstances. This had always been made clear in all the supporting documentations for 
the scheme and so Mr C was already  aware  that this position could change in the future.
Further to this, in April 2016 AXAs position was that HMRC was incorrect in its view of the 
flexibility option and therefore made the decision that existing schemes with the flexibility 
option active could  continue to utilise the feature  with no additional  risk. The communications  
to prospective new customers were made as a result of the issue  and delays AXA was 
having with HMRC in registering new schemes rather than as result of a change in the risk 
or a change in interpretation by AXA.  In terms of the flexibility  option the communications 
Ref: DRN53664945reiterated the view of AXA (at that time) that it remained  appropriate but that it could not be 
guaranteed that AXAs  interpretation  would not change in the future.   
With regards to AXA pulling the flexibility option  for new clients  in May 2016, AXA has stated 
that  in May 2016 it was announced that parts of the AXA business (including  the FST book) 
had been acquired by Phoenix. The operating model at that time for Phoenix was that of a 
closed book provider  and consequently  as part of the acquisition deal AXA agreed that it 
would  close the FST to new business. Although AXA agreed to close the FST in May 2016  
(and notified HMRC  of this intention) the closure did not actually take place until 2 
September 2016. Apart from requiring closure to new business (for all acquired  products not 
just FST) the acquisition  by Phoenix  required  no other changes for the products they 
acquired. The closure of the flexibility option  was a decision made entirely by AXA and was 
made in July after further communication with both HMRC and the QC subsequent to May 
2016. AXA has previously  acknowledged  that announcing  both the decision to close  to new 
business and the removal of flexibility option  in the same communication  could be seen as 
implying they were  linked but I am satisfied from everything I have seen  in the investigation  
of this complaint  that they were in fact two different  issues that AXA simply decided to 
communicate in one go.
In relation to Mr Cs feelings  about the legal opinion I think its important  that Mr C bear in 
mind how regulations and standards of practice within  the area of pensions  are constantly 
changing. The world  of pensions has evolved greatly over the years - new regulations  have 
been put in place and existing regulations amended.  At the same time small groups have 
found ways of exploiting potential loopholes  to suit their, sometimes nefarious,  aims. So 
financial institutions need to be alive to this and react accordingly. As already illustrated in 
my provisional findings in July 2016,  after further  legal  opinion and in consideration of the 
ongoing interest from HMRC AXA decided it was no longer appropriate to continue  with its 
interpretation that allocation of growth on a non-proportionate basis  was appropriate  within 
the pension framework. Its also important to note that HMRC didnt definitively state  the 
flexibility option was wrong  it just continued  with its enquiries and it was the decision of 
AXA in light of those  ongoing enquiries  and uncertainty, along with the legal opinion,  to 
decide to withdraw  the flexibility option in the best interest of its clients  in respect  of HMRC 
developments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5366494