K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Evolution Insurance Company Limited charged him for additional 
mileage when it recovered him under  his roadside assistance policy. He wants a refund of 
the charge and the policy premiums.
background
Mr Cs car broke down and he called  Evolution for assistance. He was recovered to a garage 
24 miles away but Evolution charged him for extra mileage as it said recovery  was only 
provided up to 13 miles. Mr C said this wasnt in the policy  and he thought it covered  him for 
25 miles recovery.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Evolution had explained  to Mr C in the call that he could be recovered to a garage within 
13 miles. She thought Mr C chose to be recovered  further, to a garage nearer his home.  She 
thought the 25 miles recovery  applied to European recovery  or Gold  members.
Mr C replied that he didnt  think this was clear  in the policy. He said hed paid the additional 
costs at the time as he was under duress.  Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review,  so his 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Evolution provides  different levels of cover  for roadside breakdown. Mr C had a 1 call 
policy which  provides  for one callout each year. Other options were  for Basic,  Silver  and 
Gold cover.  Ive looked at Mr Cs policys terms and conditions.  
The policy says that in the case of recovery, it will be made to the nearest suitable garage. 
But I cant see that the policy sets a limit for the mileage for recovery. An explanatory 
document explains that there are four types  of cover  available depending upon the policy 
chosen. One type of cover is Local Recovery to a Garage within  a 25 mile radius.  This is 
mentioned as a likely option as opposed to repatriation for Gold members  in the case  of 
European breakdown. But I cant see that theres  an exclusion or limitation from this for 
1 call or other levels of cover. 
So I agree with Mr C that the explanatory document doesnt make  it clear that theres  a limit 
to the mileage hes entitled to in the case of recovery.  I can understand that he thought he 
was entitled to 25 miles recovery. However,  the policy terms and conditions do make it clear 
that recovery will be to the nearest suitable garage. There were a number of suitable 
garages near the site of the breakdown. But Mr C chose a garage further away  and nearer  
his home.  
Ref: DRN56413192In the breakdown call, I think Evolution made it clear to Mr C that he was entitled  to recovery 
to a garage locally, which it said was within 10 to 13 miles of his breakdown.  I can 
understand that Mr C wanted to get home  and that he felt that he had no option but to pay 
the extra mileage. But as I think he was made  reasonably aware of the policy  limitations at 
this point, I cant say that Evolution should  make  him any refund for these costs.  
Mr C wanted a refund of his policy premium. But as hes had use of the policy, I dont think  
this would be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5641319