K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited wont pay his claim for theft of 
a watch under his home insurance  and with the way he was treated in the course  of the 
claim.
background
In 2013 Mr D was robbed at knifepoint of a Rolex watch  whilst  out walking. He submitted a 
claim to Lloyds. He asserted at the time that he had bought the watch  in cash  from a friend. 
He couldnt provide the receipt, details of his cash withdrawal or the box or guarantee. The 
claim was closed at the time. Some years later in 2017 Mr D discovered the box and receipt 
and renewed his claim. Lloyds noted some  discrepancies between the receipt and the 
details Mr D had provided in 2013.  It asked him for his bank statement to show payment but 
he was unable to provide  this. Lloyds then obtained  the police report  and arranged for a 
personal claims consultant (PCC)  to interview  Mr D.
The interview took place in May 2018.  Mr D was very unhappy with the way the interview 
was conducted.  He felt the PCC  had been hostile and unprofessional. He complained that 
she said she had to see him at the home  of a sick relative where  he was staying. He said 
that the interview took place at Lloyds local offices  because he insisted. He was told the 
interview was being  recorded
Subsequently he received a letter from Lloyds declining his claim as it was felt there  were  
too many  discrepancies  between the first reporting of the claim and the subsequent 
documents and information he provided.  Mr D complained about this and the interview. In 
particular he said he suffered from a condition which caused him to muddle numbers and 
that the PCC  had ignored this. He was subsequently told the recording of the interview had 
been accidentally  deleted.  Lloyds  agreed  to pay Mr D £75 for the inconvenience caused by 
the deletion but maintained its decision not to pay his claim.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Lloyds had acted reasonably,  pointing  
out a number of discrepancies between the claim as presented in 2013  and then in 2017-18.  
He said it was unfortunate that the recording of the interview had been  deleted but didnt 
think there was sufficient evidence to uphold his contention that the PCC had been  
unprofessional and biased.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
not paying the claim
Lloyds has refused to pay the claim,  essentially because it cant  determine  that information  
provided by Mr D for the watch  reported as stolen  in 2013 matched up with the details  and 
documents provided by him in 2017-18. Specifically:
In 2013 Mr D said the watch had been bought  from a friend for £3,200. The receipt 
found and provided  in 2017 was for £2,040. Mr D also said in 2017  that he bought  
the watch himself and denied he had bought it from a friend.
Ref: DRN50005872In 2013 Mr D said he had bought  the watch in 2006-7. The receipt showed a 
purchase in 2004.
In 2013 Mr D said the watch didnt have a date window. The model  of watch detailed  
on the receipt does  have  a date window.
Whilst I can understand that memories fade, I would have expected the receipt  produced in 
2017 to match up with the details  provided in 2013.  The phone  call from then does  still exist 
and does show that Mr D indicated he had bought it from a friend, which he now denies. He 
has been unable  to provide any bank statement showing either cash withdrawal or payment 
for the watch.  Whilst I understand  that he has a difficulty with numbers the discrepancies  in 
my view mean I cant be satisfied that the receipt  and box apply to the same watch as was 
reported to Lloyds in 2013. For those reasons I think Lloyds has reasonably declined 
payment of the claim.
interview
When a PCC has to interview  a customer about a claim, they may have to ask difficult 
questions and they may have to be persistent to gain the necessary answers. The report  
from the interviewer  indicates that Mr D was evasive and difficult. As Ive said there is no 
recording to listen to, but if the PCC  was asking  Mr D to explain discrepancies  it may well 
come across  as hostile or not believing him. As the purpose of the interview  was to seek to 
explain the discrepancies  I cant imagine that it would have made for comfortable 
questioning. But I cant criticise Lloyds for the way its PCC  conducted  the interview. It has 
carried out its own internal enquiry and not found there to be anything  unprofessional about 
the way the PCC conducted herself.
Mr D says that he explained his difficulty with numbers to the PCC and that this was 
dismissed/ignored by her. Lloyds has said this wasnt brought up by Mr D at any time before 
the interview. I cant say that this should  have affected the questions the PCC put to Mr D or 
whether it was a reasonable explanation for the differences in value. So whist  I understand  
Mr Ds concerns, again it wasnt in my view a matter for criticism  of the PCC.
The PCC said she hadnt insisted on interviewing  Mr D at his sick relatives home   she 
wanted an address  from Mr D to establish where he was and he refused to give one. She 
agreed to interview  him at local offices, and from the timeline  it appears  that from first 
contact this took place quite  quickly. So I dont  think there was any insistence on the PCCs 
part about  where Mr D should be interviewed. It would be normal  for these sorts of 
interviews to take place  at the customers home but as Mr D didnt have a home address it 
was reasonable  as an alternative to interview  him at local offices.
deleting the recording
Mr D is rightly upset  that the recording of the interview was deleted.  Lloyds says this was 
accidental and Ive not seen evidence  to show otherwise. I dont think it affects the overall  
outcome of the claim,  given  what Ive said above about the discrepancies that remain within  
the evidence that is available, but appreciate the upset caused  by this. I think  Lloyds was fair 
in paying Mr D £75 compensation.
I understand that Mr D is concerned that a data protection breach has occurred. Lloyds has 
clarified that deleting  the recording is not a breach. And generally businesses arent required 
Ref: DRN50005873to make recordings. Nevertheless its not part of my function to decide  whether there  has 
been any breach  of data protection rules  that is a matter Mr D should  take up with the 
Information Commissioner. 
overall
I think overall that Lloyds  acted reasonably  in declining to pay Mr Ds claim and in 
responding to his concerns about the interview.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000587