K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about a conditional sale agreement that he had with Santander  Consumer 
(UK) Plc.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Bs complaint in my earlier decision, which was a provisional  
decision. However, so that all the relevant information is in this one document  Ill set out the 
background again.
In June 2017 Mr B entered into a conditional  sale agreement with Santander to finance the
acquisition of a new caravan. He did not intend  to live in the caravan rather  the caravan was 
for leisure  purposes  for the use of his family, and the for the purposes of renting out when 
not in use.
The amount  of credit provided by Santander  was £40,675, the term of the agreement was 
seven years. Two years  down the line Mr B was obliged to end the agreement early. He told 
us this was because he couldnt  afford the repayments. Moreover, Mr Bs stance is that he 
was never  able to afford the finance. He indicated that his financial situation hadnt changed 
in all the time he was a party to the contract. He suggested this means  that right from the 
get-go he could not afford to borrow this money. But he did also tell us that he had taken out 
a new loan (in July 2017)  i.e. after he entered into the conditional  sale agreement. In 
addition, he also told us that he is self-employed, and his income fluctuates as a result.  
Mr B suggested the credit  broker, a limited company that I will call B, unknown  to him, had
given Santander  inaccurate information about  his finances when he first applied  for the
agreement. In particular, he suggested it had misinformed Santander about his income by
saying it was more  than it actually was. He thought  that if Santander had been given correct
information about this point it would  never  have agreed to the conditional  sale agreement in
the first place. He also pointed out that hed not been asked to supply information  about his
expenditure as part of the application, which he thought  demonstrated Santanders checks
has not been as thorough as they are required to be. Moreover, he told he had paid a large 
deposit (£10,500)  but he had borrowed this money too from a family member.  
Further, Mr B also told us he had only entered into the agreement  on the basis  that hed be
able to rent out the caravan and the rental income  would fully cover his repayments.  He
suggested that B had given him this impression. Moreover, he had been led to believe that B
would buy back the caravan from him, at a market rate, should he want  to sell it. But this all 
turned out to be incorrect. Mr B suggested hed had to borrow from family  to cover some  of 
the costs of the caravan  pitch which was further  indication, from his perspective that he was 
finding the upkeep of the caravan to be a struggle.
Things did not go to plan,  Mr B did not keep  up with the repayments.  As a result,
he had to end the agreement early  through a process known as voluntary termination. Even
though he no longer  has possession of the caravan Mr B still owes  Santander money 
because he has not paid it everything  he owes it under  the terms of the voluntary 
termination, and it is pursuing him for this outstanding debt.
Santander said it contacted B for its take on what happened when the contract was made. B 
said it hadnt provided any information to Santander about Mr Bs finances during the 
Ref: DRN58655902application process. Rather Mr B had keyed in the information himself  because  he had made 
the application using an online application form, albeit that hed done  this in Bs offices.
Therefore, any information that was incorrect was down to Mr B. In any event Santander  
said it had not asked for information about  Mr Bs income as part of the application process.
Furthermore, Santander indicated that it had carried out what  it thought were appropriate 
checks before agreeing  to lend to Mr B. Those  checks hadnt shown up anything  that made  it 
think it ought not to lend to Mr B. It hadnt checked  Mr Bs income and expenditure as it 
hadnt thought it needed to in this instance. It told us its process for checking affordability 
was in line with its regulatory obligations.
Santander said there was no provision in the contract between Mr B and B for B to buy back  
the caravan. Rather, Mr B and B had agreed  if Mr B wanted to sell the caravan he would 
offer it to B before anyone else. But B wasnt obliged  to buy back  the caravan if it didnt want  
to and there was nothing  about what price would  be paid.
Further, Santander said Mr Bs repayment history  had not suggested he couldnt afford the 
finance, quite  the reverse. It pointed out he had made nine monthly  payments of £626.45  
before ever he told it he was having  money  troubles. It thought his money troubles came 
about because  his circumstances had changed  since he took out the agreement.
Moreover, Santander thought it was significant that Mr B had provided it with seemingly 
inconsistent information  when he finally told it he was struggling. Specifically, its records 
showed that when it asked Mr B about his income and expenditure in June 2018 the 
information he provided showed  he had disposable  income of around £700 per month. But 
when it did the same thing  again  in November 2018 it seemed he was over-committed by 
approximately £200 per month.  It didnt see how this was possible if Mr Bs finances had 
been in a steady state  which is what he suggested.
Santander added that Mr B would have known how much he had to pay each  month, if he
thought this was too much  for him he should  have said so at the time and not gone  ahead 
with the deal.
Dissatisfied, Mr B complained to our service.
I looked at Mr Bs complaint and I issued a provisional decision. In summary, I found that in 
the circumstances I was not satisfied that the checks Santander  undertook before lending to 
Mr B were  proportionate  or that it undertook  a reasonable assessment of what it did know 
about Mr B. However, when I looked at whether Mr B could afford the lending,  I concluded 
that I could  not currently find that Mr B was unable  to afford the finance  at the time he made  
the agreement. It followed  that I couldnt  uphold this complaint point. Further, on balance  I 
was not persuaded that B had misrepresented the contract to Mr B and that is why he 
entered into it. It followed I did not uphold this complaint point either. Overall, for the reasons 
I had gone through, I did not uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
I invited both Mr B and Santander to respond to my provisional decision should  they wish to 
do so. Both Mr B and Santander responded.
In brief,  Mr B provided further  information including some new information.  Specifically,  he 
gave us new information about  an account held solely in the name  of his wife. He explained 
that while this account was held in his wifes name  only, this was the account from which 
their joint household bills were paid. He suggested  that to get an accurate understanding of 
Ref: DRN58655903his financial situation  at the time he entered into the agreement  with Santander we need to 
take on board what this statement showed  too. He also sent us information  about his two 
credit card accounts. Mr B reiterated what he had said before about  needing to borrow from 
third parties to fund the deposit  and to pay for the upkeep of the caravan.
We sent the new information  to Santander.  In summary, Santander responded to say, the 
information that Mr B provided once the complaint  was with us, about his financial  situation 
(in particular  his bank  statements) showed  he had £1,000 of disposable income  per month.  
On that basis the repayments to it were affordable, in its opinion.  Rather,  it thought that the 
new agreement with monthly payments of £660.37 that Mr B took out in July 2017, 
significantly changed his financial  situation  and that might have caused  him to fall into 
arrears with it. Moreover, it repeated the size of the deposit that Mr B had been able to 
provide, indicated that he had significant disposable  income. It was not to know, at the time,  
that this money  had been a loan from Mr Bs father. Neither could it reasonably  be expected  
to have worked this out. In addition, it did not think the information  about Mr Bs wifes 
account was relevant  as its agreement with Mr B was in his sole name. 
my findings
I thank both Mr B and Santander for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reviewed  the complete file again and revisited my 
provisional decision.
It seems  that the only issue now is whether Mr B could afford the borrowing the parties are 
still very much disagreed  on this point. 
Mr Bs financial situation  in June 2017  was not straightforward,  but on the face of it, Mr Bs 
payment history suggested he was able to afford the borrowing. As I have mentioned  before,  
he made nine straight monthly payments seemingly without problem. Mr B though suggests 
that all was not as it seemed. For example, as early  as December  2017  he was having 
difficulties making the repayments. And I accept  this. But I cant discount Santanders point,  
the repayments on the finance he took out with the third party,  in July 2017  were  substantial 
in the context, and it might have been  this third party debt,  rather  than the repayments to 
Santander that caused this difficulty. Moreover,  the fact that it took until December 2017 for 
him to start to have problems repaying suggests  at first the repayments  were not causing 
financial problems. That is if I go by his repayment history alone.  But I recognise that is not 
the whole  story, so Ive taken a look again  at Mr Bs wider financial circumstances.
Mr B made use of two accounts and they throw more light on his financial state when  he 
took out the finance with Santander. In particular, he has told us about an account with a 
third party I will call H and he has also told us about a joint account with his wife held with a 
third party I will call R. 
The account  held with H was in Mr Bs wifes  sole name. Nonetheless I accept that he was in 
one household with his wife and they acted  as one economic unit. Further, I think  the 
account information he provided  for his wifes sole account is relevant because I can see 
that payments  relating to their joint household  expenses came out of this account.  Whereas  
there was very little in the joint account  statements that seemed to relate  to his normal  
household living expenses. So, if I only looked  at the joint account  statements Id not get a 
full picture of Mr Bs financial  situation  at the time he contracted  with Santander. Therefore, I 
Ref: DRN58655904dont agree with Santander that I should not be looking  at the account  with H when thinking 
about whether  Mr B could sustain his repayments  to it.
That said,  as Santander has pointed out, the statement for the joint account for June  2017,  
does indeed appear to show that Mr B could easily meet all his pre-existing monthly 
repayments and make his repayments to Santander.  And his salary  was not the £900 per 
month he suggests it was on average, but £2,500 for that month. I realise  Mr B tells us that 
he was self-employed,  and his salary fluctuated as a result, but the difference between £900 
per month and £2,500 per month is a significant fluctuation. It is not clear to me if the £2,500 
salary that month was a complete one-off or if this sum represented his normal  average 
monthly income. I do have a letter from Mr Bs accountant which suggests his average  
income was £900  per month at one point. But that letter  does not refer to the tax period in 
which Mr B took out this agreement, so that has had an impact on the weight I feel able to 
give this. That said, I do have statements for the account with R for September and October 
2017 and these show significant payments into the account, seemingly for work  hed done 
for customers. The size of these payments suggest  in those months  at least his salary was 
much more than £900 per month  and more  in the £2,500 ball park.
Moreover, also in the statements for the account  with R, I can see Mr B had a number of 
credits coming into his account in June 2017,  totalling around £3,500. It is not possible for 
me to tell, just by looking at the statements, where  these credits  were coming from. Mr B 
suggests these  were mostly cash loans from his family. But I cant see why these  loans were  
necessary in that month when the salary payment seemed to cover  his expenses. 
That said,  the statements  for this account  for June  2017 also show  that the account  was 
being charged for an unarranged overdraft  fee and unpaid transaction fee for the month 
before. That could indicate that Mr B was struggling financially in June 2017, but it could also 
be that this was a one-off event. It is hard to tell without  the statements for the account  in the 
preceding months.  
In the circumstances, on the face of it, for the reasons Ive gone through, Mr B could afford 
the repayments to Santander based  on the information I have about the joint account  alone.
But as I mentioned above I also need  to factor in the sole account. In June 2017, this 
account was in a far less robust state,  it had an unarranged overdraft fee, it began the month  
in credit but ended  in overdraft. But the total income in both accounts did cover the monthly 
fixed costs in both accounts with sufficient  over to make the repayments  to Santander.
I note that the account with H shows that Mr B was receiving benefits,  but that does not by 
itself show that Mr B could not afford to borrow from Santander when he did.
Aside from the bank  accounts Mr B had two credit card accounts.  Ive seen some of the 
statements for them. I can see that in July, August and September 2017 one of Mr Bs credit 
card accounts went over limit despite  very low minimum repayments being required.  Mr B 
also says he borrowed again  from his father  in September  2017 (this time £1,400). But 
again, when I look at the account with R for September it does not indicate that Mr B was 
struggling and needed  this new loan.  
I note that £6,000 was also paid into Mr Bs joint account in June 2017.  Mr B tells us, and his 
father confirms, this £6,000 was a cash loan from his father  to pay for the deposit. Despite 
being described as a loan Ive not seen anything that shows Mr B subsequently made  
repayments to his father. However,  I have thought about whether the size of the loan for the 
Ref: DRN58655905deposit masked Mr Bs true situation.  I think it likely that if Mr B had not paid the deposit his 
monthly payments  would have been much  higher. The question is was it only the credit from 
Mr Bs father that made it possible for Mr B to get credit from Santander. Was he in fact 
obtaining credit  through credit?  I cant know for sure how more  Mr B would have had to have  
paid each month to Santander without the deposit.  But he did seemingly have a sufficient 
disposable income to make higher  payments. So, on balance  I cant  fairly  and reasonably 
say, but for the loan from his father Mr B would  not have been  able to make sustainable 
repayments.
Overall, when I take a look at Mr Bs wider financial situation in June 2017, I dont find on 
balance that the finance provided by Santander  was unaffordable, I realise that this will most 
likely disappoint Mr B, thats not my intention, far from it.
Mr B indicates that he is now in no position to pay off the outstanding finance with 
Santander, at least not all in one go. Mr B has asked  about a repayment  plan. He should 
contact Santander  to let them know this. Santander  is not obliged  to agree to a repayment 
plan, but I remind  Santander of its obligations to act fairly, with due consideration and 
forbearance towards consumers who are in financial difficulties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5865590