K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
Ms M bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card in a branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Ms credit card application had a section  for optional features  extras  she didnt have 
to buy if she didnt want to. It briefly explained  what  PPI was for and then had two tick boxes 
to choose from: one to take the policy and one to turn it down.  Both options look equally 
prominent. The box to buy PPI was ticked and Ms M signed the application. So I think  that 
Lloyds made  Ms M aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it  though I can understand if she no longer  remembers doing that after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms M, which means they had to check  it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and she didnt 
have any other cover  in case  she was off sick or lost her job. So the PPI wouldve been 
useful for Ms M in case she fell on difficult times.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Ms M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms M chose  to take out the policy,  which implies she wanted this 
type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations, and it would have been  useful for Ms M if something  
went wrong. Then if Ms Ms circumstances changed or she changed her mind, she could 
cancel the policy at any time without a penalty.  So overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN59611362my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5961136