K822xComplaint
Mr E complains that TSB Bank  has repeatedly sent private correspondence to his old 
addresses. 
Background 
Mr E says that in early 2018 he moved and updated his address with TSB in branch. But a 
short while later Mr E received a redirected statement TSB sent to his old address. Mr E 
complained and went on to refer his case to our service. We dealt with the complaint under a 
separate reference and TSB agreed to pay Mr E £150 plus £11 in costs for the error. 
In December 2018 Mr E moved home and a couple  of months  later he made some changes  
to his current account. But when TSB posted  a new debit card it was sent to his old address. 
Mr E complained again and TSB agreed to pay him £250 plus costs of £21. 
In April 2019 TSB sent a mortgage  statement to one of Mr Es previous addresses and he 
received it after it was redirected  twice.  Mr E referred his complaint to our service  and an 
investigator looked at what  had happened. The investigator recommended TSB increase the 
offer by £150,  taking the total award to £421. TSB accepted but Mr E didnt and said he 
wants to move his banking and mortgage arrangements  away from TSB. Mr E has asked to 
be released from his mortgage  without having  to pay an early repayment  charge (ERC)  of 
£4,000. 
As Mr E didnt accept  the investigators  view his complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Please note that whilst  Im aware  that there  have  been ongoing issues with Mr Es 
correspondence being sent to old addresses, this case relates  to the issues that occurred  
after we looked  at his previous complaint under a separate reference. When making  my 
decision Ive taken into account the long standing nature of the problems Mr E complains 
about but the issues dealt  with under the previous reference arent  included  in this case.  
TSB sent a new debit  card to Mr Es old address,  despite being aware of the previous 
problems experienced. Its clear  there  were  systems  issues that meant  not all Mr Es 
correspondence addresses were updated.  When TSB responded to Mr Es complaint  it 
offered him £250 and £21 costs.  But TSB made a similar mistake  a few months later when it 
sent an incorrectly addressed mortgage  statement. 
I agree  with the investigator that its fair for it to increase the compensation offered. Im 
satisfied the situation has caused  Mr E inconvenience and has been very frustrating. 
The investigator asked  TSB to increase  the award  to a total of £400 plus £21 in costs. I know 
Mr E is very upset  by what happened and Ive thought about his request to be released from 
his mortgage without an ERC. But Im not persuaded  that allowing Mr E to switch  his 
mortgage without  paying the ERC  is a fair way to resolve his complaint. The ERC  is a 
contractual term Mr E agreed to when  he took out the mortgage.  And whilst  I agree its not 
Ref: DRN50880282acceptable for TSB to send private information  to the wrong address, I dont think  the only 
fair way to deal with the complaint is for it to waive the mortgage ERC. Im satisfied a fair 
level of compensation  is a reasonable way to resolve Mr Es complaint.  
Ive thought about what Mr E has told us concerning the impact  of TSBs mistakes.  I 
understand hes had to visit the branch several  times  and contact TSB on multiple occasions 
to discuss his address  and complaint.  Mr E says hes concerned about the security of his 
information and I can understand  why hes upset. But TSB now says all its systems have 
been correctly  updated and I very much hope Mr E wont  experience the same problems in 
the future.  
I agree  theres  been quite a lot of inconvenience  in this case. But TSB has agreed to pay 
£400 plus £21 in costs. Taking everything  Mr E has told us about the impact of TSBs 
mistakes into account, Im satisfied the £421 on offer fairly reflects  what  happened. As TSB 
has agreed to pay a fair level of compensation I leave it to Mr E to decide  whether he wishes  
to accept. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr E £421. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5088028