K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2006. Mr G says Northern  Bank  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Northern Bank had to make  it clear to Mr G that he had a choice about  
it. Mr G says he was led to believe  the policy was compulsory. But he hasnt given us much 
more detail about what was said or why he felt that.
Northern Bank has sent us a copy of Mr Gs loan agreement. This referred  to the PPI as 
optional and had a separate  section with a box to be ticked and a space for Mr G to sign if 
he wanted to take it out. And the box has been  ticked and Mr G has signed in the space.
Northern Bank has also sent us a copy of a letter sent to Mr G summarising  his loan 
application. This also said the PPI was optional and had a space for Mr G to sign to confirm 
he wanted it, which Mr G signed in.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Northern Bank did make it clear  to Mr G 
that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr G chose to take it, knowing he didnt have 
to.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve 
received sick pay from his employer.
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr G if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr G off taking it out.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because :
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Northern bank didnt tell 
Mr G, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN53945212To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr G any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr G the extra he paid each  month on the loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium  - including any 
extra Mr G paid if the loan was paid off early.  Northern  Bank  should  also pay Mr G 8%* 
simple interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5394521