K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Santander  UK Plc, then trading as Abbey National,  mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI). 
background
In March 1991, Mr and Mrs K were  paying for Paymentcare  cover (this is what Santander  
called its PPI). The policy  protected  Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
 
Theres only limited information  available. Santander isnt able to confirm  when or how 
Mr and Mrs K took out the policy. And it doesnt have any information  about their mortgage  
at the time. Nor do Mr and Mrs K recall  much detail about the sale, after so long.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Based on an assumption that 
Mr and Mrs K took out the policy in March 1991, our adjudicator thought their complaint 
should be upheld  as Mrs K wasnt eligible for the policy  then as she wasnt working.  
Santander disagrees, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account before reaching  my final decision here.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. This is because I cant  fairly  and reasonably  say that 
the advice or information Santander shouldve given  Mr and Mrs K about  the eligibility 
conditions of the policy was as clear  as it shouldve been. Heres  why I say this.
Santanders earliest available records show that PPI payments were made on 
Mr and Mrs Ks account from March 1991 and it looks likely that the mortgage  account  and 
policy were in both Mr and Mrs Ks names. The example policy  document that Santander 
has provided says that joint policies could  be shared  equally between the parties. 
So, based  on all the information Ive seen,  I think its reasonable to assume  that Santander 
sold PPI to Mr and Mrs K in or around  March  1991 covering both of them. 
Although theres  only limited information  now available, Mrs K told us she wasnt working in 
1991. Looking  at the terms of the policy Santander thinks they wouldve taken out, in order  to 
qualify for PPI Mrs K wouldve had to work for 16 hours or more  per week  on average.  
Santander says that on two occasions Mr and Mrs K provided  signed declarations  that they 
were employed at the time of the policy sale, stating their employer details. But no records 
exist to show what they actually said or signed  - and Ive no reason to doubt  what 
Mr and Mrs K now say were their work circumstances in March  1991. On balance,  I think  
their recollection is likely to be right.
Ref: DRN55882852Ive based my decision on what I think is most likely,  taking into account the available  
information and the wider  circumstances. 
The fact that Mrs K previously indicated that she was working when she now says she 
wasnt doesnt change  my view. I dont feel I can fairly  attach any significant weight to 
information that Mrs K may have given as a result of a misunderstanding  or perhaps  
without any particular regard to its accuracy  if she hadnt been made aware that this is a 
point of particular  significance. 
And given  how long ago PPI was taken out, I think its unsurprising  that some of the precise 
details about her circumstances at the time mightve  sometimes  been incorrectly  recalled.
Santander shouldve  checked that both Mr and Mrs K were  eligible for the cover.  Santander 
says that as part of the sales process  it wouldve given Mr and Mrs K a policy  leaflet which 
included information  about the policys features,  benefits, exclusions and limitations. And 
I accept its likely, however Mr and Mrs K were sold PPI, that at some point Santander gave 
or sent them a policy  leaflet,  as it says. 
But I cant be sure how or when that mightve happened  because it just isnt clear how 
Santander sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. 
Santander says it wouldve  recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs K. So the onus was on 
Santander to find out about  their circumstances and ensure that it was suitable for their 
needs. I havent seen enough evidence to show this happened.   
Santander has provided a sample  Paymentcare application form. Assuming this is similar to 
the application it thinks Mr and Mrs K wouldve filled in, I can see they had to sign a 
declaration next to where it says: I am/we are currently  in employment and have been so 
continuously for the past six months
But I dont know if they signed such a form. Or, if so, whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs K 
enough of an opportunity  to read the application form in sufficient detail. Or that 
Mr and Mrs K wouldve appreciated  the significance of the fact that only one of them was 
working. This important  condition wasnt highlighted particularly   the print is very small 
compared to some other parts  of the form. 
I think the way the application is worded (I am/we  are...) is potentially  ambiguous  and 
confusing  its not in dispute that Mr K was working. 
And I dont  know what, if anything, was discussed with Mr and Mrs K about PPI. 
On balance, I dont  think Ive seen enough to be able to say that Santander made the 
eligibility requirements clear enough to Mr and Mrs K  because  if it had, or had advised  
them that the policy wouldnt cover Mrs K, I dont think its likely they wouldve taken out the 
cover they did, given Mrs Ks particular  employment  circumstances. 
Santander cant provide me with any better information to contradict Mr and Mrs K when 
they say that Mrs K wasnt working in March 1991. Taking everything into account,  including  
Mrs Ks personal circumstances at the time, I think its fair and reasonable to accept what 
Mrs K has told us on this point. 
Ref: DRN55882853I find that Mrs K wasnt working  in 1991 when all the available information suggests  this was 
probably the time Mr and Mrs K took out PPI. So she didnt meet all the eligibility  criteria  to 
qualify for PPI. 
Mr and Mrs K paid for PPI even though  they wouldnt have been covered for any claims 
made by Mrs K. 
So, I think theyve lost out as a result  and Santander should put things right for them. And 
that means I dont need to deal with the other issues theyve raised about the sale.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs K in the financial  position theyd  be in now if they hadnt 
taken out the PPI. The policy has already been  cancelled so Santander should take the 
following steps:
oPay Mr and Mrs K the amount they paid each  month for the PPI 
oAdd simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on.
oIf Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy Santander can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For these reasons Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against 
Santander UK Plc and I direct it to take the steps Ive set out above  to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5588285