K822xcomplaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) has treated her unfairly  by 
blocking her from making transactions from her Halifax account.  
background 
In early September 2018, Ms G tried to buy flights using her Halifax account, but the 
transaction was declined.  
On 6 September, Ms G called Halifax to ask them to unblock her card.  Halifaxs agent asked 
Ms G three security  questions, but she answered one of these incorrectly. Halifax asked 
Ms G some further  questions, and she was unable  to answer all of these correctly.  Halifax 
then told Ms G they were  unable to verify her identify and she would need to take her 
passport into a branch to have her card unblocked.
Ms G called Halifax back again to try get her transaction  unblocked.  She explained she 
couldnt go into a branch  as she was abroad. Halifaxs agent asked Ms G if she had her 
passport with her so they could verify it. Ms G said she wouldnt give Halifax her passport 
and asked Halifax to unblock her transaction.  Halifax wouldnt,  so Ms G ended the call.
Ms G called Halifax twice the next day. On the first call, Halifax asked her some security 
questions, and Ms G didnt answer all of these correctly. Halifaxs agent reiterated  that Ms G 
would need to take her passport into a branch to get her card unblocked. Halifax wouldnt 
answer any of Ms Gs questions because  she didnt pass its security checks, and the call 
ended.
When Ms G called again, she started  asking the agent certain  questions  about the banks 
security processes, which he tried to answer. The banks agent  explained  its system  
randomly generated questions  and tried to take Ms G through its security checks  again. The 
agent was able to look at Ms Gs account details.  The agent  then explained he couldnt help 
Ms G to unblock her account because shed previously failed security checks. Ms G asked to 
speak to the agents manager.
The manager explained  the bank had concerns that whoever had called the bank  was not 
Ms G. It needed Ms G to go into a branch to confirm her identity. Ms G reiterated that she 
was out of the country. The manager  said the bank had asked for Ms Gs passport number 
to try help her. Ms G said she hadnt  been asked for her passport details. Ms G said she was 
happy to give her passport number. Ms G said shed never  been  asked to give her passport 
number but was told to go into branch. 
The manager tried to clarify the calls Ms G had with the bank yesterday. Ms G said she 
didnt have the conversation the manager referred to. Ms G didnt confirm shed been asked 
for her passport number. She said she was told to take her passport into the branch. 
The manager explained  that if Ms G had not been asked for her passport number, then 
someone else someone else may have called in pretending to be Ms G. It would then have 
to cancel her card and send out another by post. Ms Gs ability  to make transactions  using 
her card was blocked until she visited a branch.  
Ms G was very unhappy  with Halifax and brought a complaint to our service. She said 
Halifax treated her like a criminal and its staff members are under-trained and under-paid. 
Ms G says her health was being  damaged by the banks actions. One of our investigators  
Ref: DRN53109482reviewed things. He thought  there  had been  some confusion in the second  call referred to 
above, in which Halifaxs agent asked for Ms Gs passport. He didnt think  the agent  was 
clear enough  that he needed only her passport number, not her actual passport.
Our investigator explained its important for Halifax to have security processes in place and it 
wouldnt be appropriate for him to ask Halifax to bypass its processes. He recommended  
Halifax attempt to verify Ms Gs identity  over the phone again, instead  of Ms G having to visit 
a branch. Our investigator didnt  recommend  Halifax pay Ms G any compensation for any 
distress caused. He explained Halifax was entitled to ask security questions, so thought the 
way Ms G had spoken to the banks staff was, at times, unacceptable and may also have 
caused delays.  
Halifax accepted  our investigators  recommendation that it attempt to verify Ms G again over 
the phone. Ms G remained unhappy, saying our investigator was wrong. She repeated her 
opinions about  Halifaxs staff members being under-trained and under-paid. So this has 
come to me for a review  and a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by Ms G. Ive also listened to the recordings 
provided by Halifax,  which  our investigator has also sent to Ms G. I could hear that Ms G 
was distressed during her calls with Halifax. But she was also, at times, rude to its staff.  
Ms G talked over staff members who remained  professional and were, I think, genuinely 
trying to help her. 
Halifax said Ms G didnt  answer all of its security questions correctly. Its provided the 
questions that werent  answered correctly, which include Ms Gs age on her next birthday. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Halifax to have  concerns about  the true identity of the 
caller and ask Ms G to visit a local branch. And once Ms G made Halifax aware she was 
abroad, Halifax asked  if Ms G had her passport with her. 
I accept Halifaxs agent could have been  clearer when he asked Ms G if she had her 
passport with her on 6 September 2018.  But as Ms G hung up shortly afterwards, I dont 
think the agent had much of an opportunity to clarify how he could help. This led to the 
confusion in the call the next day, when Ms G said she hadnt been asked to provide her 
passport number. Again, on that call Ms G didnt provide her passport number initially and 
proceeded to question  Halifaxs  agent  about its security processes. I dont think  the concerns 
Halifaxs agent had about Ms Gs identity were unreasonable  and the agent was entitled to 
ask Ms G to visit a branch to verify her identity.
I know Ms G disagrees with Halifaxs security processes and asks what  by which laws allow  
Halifax to act as it has. But Halifax has a duty to protect its customers information and it is 
for Halifax to decide how to do this, including what level of checks  it carries  out to verify its 
customers when they call the bank. I dont think Halifax applied its security  processes 
unreasonably or treated her unfairly.  I dont think Halifax  should  compensate  Ms G for any 
inconvenience caused.
I note Halifax agreed  to our investigators  recommendation  that it attempt to verify Ms Gs 
identity over the phone  again. I think that was a reasonable offer.  But if Ms G cannot  be 
Ref: DRN53109483verified by phone, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Halifax  to ask Ms G to attend a 
branch when she returns to the UK. Halifax says that whilst Ms G cant  make  bank transfers,  
she can withdraw cash and use some internet banking services.
my final decision
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Ms G, but I dont uphold  her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5310948