K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Limited  unfairly  reduced the transfer value of his pension 
fund.
background
Mr C held a with profits buyout bond  with Phoenix Life. 
Phoenix Life sent Mr C an annual bonus  statement in June 2018 which  showed  a transfer 
value of around £127,500.  He says that, following receipt of that statement, he decided  to 
move house  and remove his mortgage.
Mr C phoned Phoenix Life in August 2018. And Phoenix Life sent him a transfer  quotation 
which said that the transfer  value was around £129,300.
Mr C decided to go ahead  with the transfer. But when  the transfer was made in September 
2018 the transfer value  had reduced to around  £123,000.
Mr C complained to Phoenix Life. He said in summary that he had decided  to move house  
on the basis of the transfer value given to him. He felt that Phoenix  Life should have 
honoured the original quotation  for 28 days. And he said that Phoenix Life hadnt treated him 
fairly.
Phoenix Life didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  It said,  in summary:
Where a policy transfers out of the fund it aims  to pay the fair share  of the profits  
earned by the With Profits  fund over the time the policy has been invested in the 
fund. It considers the build up of premiums  (the asset share)  when deciding what 
is a fair share. The main drivers  of the asset share are investment performance, 
expenses incurred  and any distribution of surplus money within  the fund.
In some cases, values  in excess of asset  share may be payable when policies are 
transferred out of the fund close to the normal retirement date and the asset share is 
less than the guaranteed  benefits  at retirement.  This is done to ensure  smooth  
progression of transfer value relative to benefits at retirement;
Individual asset shares are not calculated or held for use in transfer value 
calculations. Transfer values are calculated based on a discounted value  of the 
guaranteed sum at retirement  together with an allowance  for final bonus where 
appropriate. The parameters used to calculate transfer values are reviewed regularly 
using the asset  shares for specimen  policies which represent policies expected to 
transfer out in the period  covered by each review;
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  He said:
He didnt understand why there  was such a big drop in the transfer value in such a 
short time period;
The paperwork stated that any difference in transfer value would be mainly caused 
by falls or rises in investment markets, but there  was no real investment downturn 
during the period in question;
Phoenix Life had changed  the term to maturity from three years to two years,  but this 
shouldnt have  happened until 26 December 2018;
Ref: DRN58225032The explanation  Phoenix Life had given  was complex and not really representative of 
the original transfer quote;
He felt that Phoenix Life hadnt  treated him fairly.
Our investigator didnt  feel that Phoenix Life had made an error.  He said:
When Phoenix Life wrote to Mr C in August 2018  it had said that the actual amount to 
be transferred would be calculated once Phoenix  Life received all documents. The 
transfer quotation also made it clear that the quotation wasnt  guaranteed;
The transfer value  was dependent on various  factors in addition  to the falls or rises  in 
investment markets;
In particular, transfer values are calculated by discounting a projected maturity  value 
and applying  a factor (the SVA  factor)  to the result to target 100% asset shares.  
The SVA value varies  by original  term of the policy and the duration in force. SVA 
factors are reviewed  regularly to ensure that transfer  values  continue  to target 100% 
of asset shares.  This allows for all members  to receive their fair share  from the with 
profits fund over the time the policy has been  invested;
Individual asset shares are not calculated, so Phoenix Life wasnt able to provide 
Mr C with a guaranteed figure. This was explained in the paperwork. The transfer  
values are calculated  based on the discounted value of the guaranteed sum at 
retirement together with an allowance for final bonus where appropriate. Factors 
used to calculate transfer values are reviewed regularly using the asset shares  for 
specimen policies expected to transfer  out in the period  covered by the review;
The SVA factor  was slightly lower in September  2018 than the SVA factor in August 
2018. Based  on this Mr Cs actual  transfer  value was lower than the original quote;
The term was calculated from the inception date. In Mr Cs case, the inception date 
was 1 September 1986, which explained why the term had changed between the 
calculation carried out as at 17 August 2018,  and that carried out as at 5 September 
2018;
Mr C does not agree with our investigators  view,  and has asked for his complaint  to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Phoenix Life has treated  Mr C unfairly.  I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr C, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive had a look at the correspondence Phoenix Life sent to Mr C. I note that the letters sent 
to Mr C in July 2017 and August 2018 attaching  transfer quotations  both contain  the 
following paragraph:
 The transfer value quoted is not guaranteed  and could be a different amount.  If you decide 
to proceed with the transfer, we will recalculate the value at the time you instruct us to make 
the transfer. Any difference will be mainly  caused  by falls or rises  in investment markets.
Im satisfied from this that Mr C should  have been aware that the transfer value was not 
guaranteed, and would be recalculated  at the time Phoenix Life was instructed to make the 
transfer.
Ref: DRN58225033I also note that Phoenix Life gave  Mr C the opportunity to change his mind about the 
transfer. I see from the evidence Ive received  that Phoenix Life called Mr Cs adviser to 
check that Mr C wanted  to go ahead. Given the fall in the transfer value, I agree that it was 
reasonable for Phoenix Life to get this confirmation.  And I note that Mr Cs adviser  confirmed 
that Mr C did want  to proceed.
Mr C points out that the paperwork states  that any difference would be mainly caused by 
falls or rises in investment  markets, but that there was no real investment downturn during 
the period in question.  But Phoenix  Life has explained to Mr C and this service why the 
transfer value  fell in Mr Cs case. This included the fact that the SVA factor was lower  in 
September 2018 than in August 2018,  and that the anniversary date of inception of the 
policy fell in early September 2018,  which meant that the term was different. And, although I 
appreciate that Mr C found the explanation he received to be complex,  I am not persuaded 
from the evidence  Ive seen that Phoenix  Life has made any errors.
As Im not persuaded that Phoenix  Life has made  an error, I dont require it to do anything 
further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5822503