K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund £14,409.95 which  was stolen from his 
bank account  due to a third party scam.  
Background
Mr M accepts that he authorised three  scam payments totalling £14,409.95.  And he was 
duped by scammers into transferring the funds  to them. 
Mr M was deceived  into thinking he was investing in cryptocurrency through a business  Ill 
call C. Unfortunately  for Mr M he was in fact speaking with scammers who werent investing 
his funds. All three payments  were made  via online bank  transfer  to the same  new payee  on 
the 5, 7 and 20 February 2018. With Mr M transferring £7,352.78 on the 5 February 2018, 
£4,838.94 on the 7 February 2018  then £2,218.23  on the 20 February  2018. Mr M also made 
two payments via his HSBC credit card to C. HSBC have refunded  these credit  card 
payments under Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  
Mr M explained that he was interested in investing in cryptocurrency, but had limited 
experience, and a friend told him of an investment platform hed already invested in  C. 
Mr M cant remember exactly what happened once  his friend mentioned  C but he believes 
his friend  probably  showed him an example of Cs platform and then he received a phone 
call from the scammers. The scammers gave  him access  to what  appeared to be a 
professional online investment  platform  and he accessed this on a more than daily basis. 
Mr M was then pressured, as if often  the case,  directly by the scammers to invest  more  
funds at short notice  to get, what are sold as, great investment deals. 
However, when Mr M accessed  the platform in April 2018 he was concerned as he saw his 
money being moved on. He contacted C and asked  them to stop trading  initially they didnt  
respond but later informed him they could recover his money if he invested further funds. At 
this point Mr M realised it was a scam  and he contacted the bank  in the hope his money 
could be recovered.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. They concluded  that the 
transactions were  unusual  and out of character for Mr M, and they should  have  triggered  
HSBCs fraud detection system and led them to contact Mr M. And if they had done so it 
would have stopped Mr M making  the payments. 
HSBC didnt accept  our investigators  findings. In summary they said:
The Code constitutes guidance, whereas the investigator measures  the Banks 
conduct in this case as if the Code amounts to legal or other mandatory standards.
The bank  is being held to too high a standard. The Quincecare decision makes  clear 
that: the law should not impose too burdensome  an obligation on bankers,  which  
hampers the effective transacting of banking  business unnecessarily  and also that: 
to impose liability whenever  speculation  might suggest dishonesty would impose 
wholly impractical standards on bankers.  
The bank  hasnt  breached its duty of care to Mr M. And they contacted  the receiving 
banks as soon  as the bank became aware of the scam. 
Ref: DRN55073812The investigator hasnt considered  whether Mr M has been  negligent.  And the bank 
believes that Mr M has failed  to take appropriate  steps to protect  himself  from fraud   
and has acted with gross negligence. 
Contributory negligence should  also be considered. 
In picking up Mr Ms complaint I reached  a slightly different  conclusion  to our investigator.  I 
wrote to Mr M and HSBC on the 16 March 2021 giving both parties  until the 30 March 2021  
to respond. Mr M accepted my Provisional Decision, but HSBC  didnt. In response they said:
The transactions might be out of character, but this doesnt mean they are 
suspicious. The bank  cant pause  all payment requests for unusual transactions. 
The Court  ruling  Philipps v Barclays makes it clear that theres no legal  obligation for 
the bank to second guess their customers  and HSBC  have a legal duty to process 
the payment instructions of their customer.  
They believe that Mr M would  have carried on and made the payments even if the 
bank had decided  to intervene. Mr M received advice from a trusted  family  friend,  
whod also successfully  invested,  and its more likely than not he would have relied 
upon his friends  advice, rather  than listening to the bank raising  concerns. 
Theres no justification for 8% interest  and the bank want to understand the 
reasoning behind this. 
As HSBC didnt agree with my Provisional  decision Ive reconsidered my decision. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive not changed the outcome  
I reached in my Provisional Decision. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
I accept that all three transfers were authorised payments even though Mr M was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. Mr M used his security  credentials to request the payments. So, 
although he didnt  intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed  liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
Ref: DRN55073813particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
For online transactions like Mr Ms this may involve following the BSI:PAS Protecting 
Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   Code of Practice. 
The BSI outlines  a number of key principles for banks to follow including taking a proactive 
approach to minimising risks and banks should  have measures in place  to identify or detect 
suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud.  This includes sudden  increase 
in spending and a payment or payments  to a new payee. It goes on to say that the 
appropriate staff should be notified and contact made with the customers  in a maximum 
timeframe of 24 hours. 
Im satisfied that HSBC  should have made contact with Mr M and queried the first 
transaction. I say this firstly because of the large size of Mr Ms transaction  in comparison to 
his previous account activity. Looking at the previous 6 months Mr Ms largest transaction  
was a cash withdrawal  of £4,000. Apart from this Mr Ms highest regular payment was for 
£1,000  which was a direct debt. Its clear the first transaction of £7,352.78 was significantly 
higher than this. Ive also thought about the destination of the first payment, and as HSBC 
are aware this payment went to a new payee  and was an international payment. I think  these 
three factors should have triggered  HSBCs  fraud detection measures. And therefore led the 
bank staff to contact Mr M. 
If the bank  staff had contacted Mr M before the first transaction was processed  and probed, 
for example asked  Mr M what the payment was for, what research hed carried out and how 
he knew it was a genuine investment I think it seems likely  Mr M wouldnt have carried  on 
with the first transaction.  I say this because the banks are the experts on scams  and I think 
its likely,  when Mr M explained  he was investing  in cryptocurrency, HSBC would have raised 
the high risk nature of this investment.  And that cryptocurrency investments arent regulated  
by the Financial Conduct Authority. I think Mr M would have also explained he thought  he 
was investing  in a Japanese company,  whereas  HSBC would have been aware  the transfers 
were being  made to a US bank account.  And I think this would lead to HSBC raising 
concerns with Mr M about the legitimacy  of C. 
Ref: DRN55073814I think its likely if HSBC had phoned  Mr M before the first transaction was processed the 
bank would have  raised concerns about  the legitimacy of the payment and in doing so 
broken the spell.  It follows if Mr M didnt  make the first payment to C, he wouldnt have 
made the second or third payments either. 
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if HSBC had asked probing questions  
are reinforced by the fact that Mr M wasnt given a cover story   and hes been  consistent 
with his version of what happened. I think its also important to note that Mr M explained he 
had no previous investment experience, was checking the online platform on a more than 
daily basis and as soon  as he became concerned  he contacted HSBC. I think its highly 
likely if HSBC, as Mr Ms trusted bank and the financial experts,  raised concerns with him 
about the legitimacy and safety  of the first transfer he would have listened  and taken on 
board their concerns. And the spell would have  been  broken,  meaning the fraud  would have 
failed and Mr M wouldnt have lost just over £14,000. 
In light of my conclusions above,  its not necessary in this case to consider whether the bank 
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the payee 
bank before they were irretrievably removed  by the scammers. But Im satisfied that HSBC 
did make  efforts to recover  the funds, but theyd unfortunately been  removed by this point by 
the scammers. 
Ive also considered whether Mr M should  bear some responsibility  by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
Mr M wasnt aware that he was being  scammed  and Ive no reason to think  he should have 
been. Mr M thought  he was investing  in cryptocurrency  he carried  out some online 
research however struggled to find information  on C and was persuaded by what  appeared 
to be a professional  online investment platform,  regular  phone calls and other 
communication from the scammers and his friends  successful investment. For these 
reasons Im satisfied there was no contributory  negligence  on this occasion,  he was simply 
the blameless victim  of a clever fraudster. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied that HSBC  should fairly  and reasonably  reimburse Mr M 
for the loss he suffered  without  any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for 
being deprived of the money  he lost.  
I also think its appropriate to make an award  of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience  
Mr M has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that his loss was ultimately 
caused by the actions  of the fraudsters,  but HSBC could ultimately have prevented  the 
payments. And consequently reduced the inconvenience Mr M has suffered. 
HSBC responded  to my Provisional Decision by saying:
The transactions might be out of character, but this doesnt mean they are 
suspicious. The bank  cant pause  all payment requests for unusual transactions. 
Im afraid I dont agree with HSBCs argument  here. As Ive previously explained the first 
transaction of £7,352.78 was significantly higher than Mr Ms highest regular payment of 
£1,000. Im satisfied that the large  size of the payment, along with the payment being  sent to 
a new payee and internationally should  have  led to it being treated as both unusual and 
suspicious. 
Ref: DRN55073815The Court  ruling  Philipps v Barclays makes it clear that theres no legal  obligation for 
the bank to second guess their customers  and HSBC  have a legal duty to process 
the payment instructions of their customer.  
Im aware of the recent Philipps v Barclays judgment where the judge  took a different view 
about the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting  the Quincecare duty applies to this case.  And 
notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what 
we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account  not 
just the law, but also regulators rules  and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what  I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
HSBC believe that Mr M would have carried on and made the payments even if the 
bank had decided  to intervene. Mr M received advice from a trusted  family  friend,  
whod also successfully  invested,  and its more likely than not he would have relied 
upon his friends  advice, rather  than listening to the bank raising  concerns. 
Im afraid I dont agree with the bank here. Mr M wasnt an inexperienced investor  and 
although his friend had successfully  received  a return  Im satisfied, on balance, HSBC  as 
the experts would have  raised sufficient concerns with him regarding  the potential risks of 
the investment   including  the possibility it was a scam. I accept that an investment doesnt  
have to be regulated  by the FCA to be legitimate, but as HSBC are well aware this increases  
the risk of an investment and the chances  a customer might  be subject to a scam. 
Considering Mr M also thought he was making payments to a Japanese  company, yet the 
payments were going to the USA,  Im satisfied HSBC would have broken the spell.  
Theres no justification for 8% interest  and the bank want to understand the 
reasoning behind this. 
Its clear that Mr M was looking for investments to increase the return on his funds at the 
time he was unfortunately the victim  of a scam. For this reason I dont agree with HSBCs 
argument that account interest would be fair  the evidence suggests Mr M was looking to 
use his money and was deprived of this opportunity. Therefore 8% compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I havent changed the conclusions I reached in my 
Provisional Decision. And Ill be directing  HSBC  to reimburse Mr M for the loss he suffered, 
plus 8% interest and a award of £300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Ref: DRN55073816My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
Refund Mr M £14,409.95 and pay 8% interest,  from the date of the transaction,  to the 
date the settlement is made.
Pay Mr M £300 for the inconvenience  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5507381