K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance Company Limited  failed to provide 
advice under his legal expenses policy. Mr R is dealing with the complaint on behalf of his 
business.
background 
Mr R was approached  by his regulatory authority regarding  a complaint made by an alleged 
customer of Mr Rs business. The authority gave a deadline of 14 days to respond to their 
enquiries, for which Mr R needed  to seek legal advice. Mr R had access  to a group legal 
expenses policy which included a legal  helpline. Mr R called the helpline to get guidance on 
how to respond to his regulatory body and see if policy cover was available for legal 
representation.
Mr R was informed there  wasnt anyone specialist in this particular area that could  provide 
advice. So, details of the claim were  passed to DAS  as the insurers of the policy   to 
determine. DAS declined the claim. It said the policy  covered the cost of defending a 
disciplinary hearing being  brought against Mr R by a regulatory  authority. But at this time, no 
formal disciplinary proceedings were being pursued. DAS said cover  wasnt  available  to 
represent Mr R in any enquiries being  made against  him.
As Mr R required legal advice to assist him with these enquiries, he instructed a barrister. 
Hes incurred legal costs  of £2750 plus VAT.  The matter has now come to a conclusion 
without the need for disciplinary action being brought  against Mr R. Mr R acknowledged that 
his claim for representation  wasnt covered  at this stage. But he said the policy shouldve 
provided legal advice via the helpline. And as it didnt,  he had to incur  costs privately. Mr R 
brought his complaint to this service. He wants DAS to reimburse  his costs plus 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes being  caused.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said Mr R was entitled to legal advice under the 
policy. And if the helpline didnt have  anyone specialist in this area, DAS shouldve  
outsourced this to a suitably qualified lawyer to provide the advice.  But he didnt think  DAS 
should reimburse the full cost of the barrister. He said the barrister had given a great deal 
more advice and support  than the legal helpline  wouldve provided, even if theyd had 
someone specialist  in this area. Our investigator said the legal helpline is there  to provide 
generic legal advice. He said the helpline wouldnt review or draft correspondence and/or 
documentation, which Mr Rs barrister had done. He recommended that DAS pay £500 for 
failing to provide  advice  under the policy.
DAS accepted this. But Mr R didnt accept this. He said DAS actions left him no choice but 
to instruct a barrister privately.  This barrister was the only lawyer  he could find with 
knowledge of this specialist area. The barrister had insisted on having  copies  of all 
correspondence to enable him to consider the matter fully, but Mr R said the advice given 
was no more than what he was entitled to, and shouldve received,  under the DAS policy.  
The complaint has been passed  on to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN51890802The policy terms and conditions say the legal helpline will give the insured person 
confidential legal advice over the phone on any personal legal problem.
The policy potentially provides two different services  the legal advice helpline and legal  
representation. Mr R wasnt  yet entitled to representation,  but I think  he was entitled to 
advice from the helpline.
DAS said in its final response letter that Mr Rs claim wasnt  covered so the policy  was 
unable to assist  him. I think thats  a fair point  I dont think Mr Rs claim was, at this stage, 
covered by the policy. But I havent  seen anything within  the terms and conditions to say that 
access to this service is limited to circumstances  covered by the policy. I think its clear  from 
the above policy quote that advice is available for any personal  legal  problem. So, I think 
the helpline  shouldve given Mr R legal advice.
DAS has also said it couldnt give Mr R the specialist advice he required.  But from what  Ive 
seen, he wasnt provided any advice in this area, even at a basic  level.  I dont think  this is in 
line with what the policy offers.  And I agree with our investigator that DAS shouldve sought  
a suitably qualified  lawyer to provide advice to Mr R.
Mr R wants DAS to reimburse the legal  costs hes incurred. He said he only had 14 days  to 
respond to his regulatory authority and DAS took several days  to confirm it couldnt  help.  
This left Mr R with limited time to locate a lawyer with the specialist knowledge. It still took 
time to find a suitable expert. When Mr R did find a barrister, he felt he had to accept the 
high fees quoted by the barrister.
Mr R also said the barrister  only did work that he was entitled to expect from the policy.  I 
think Mr R accepts the helpline advice would be over the phone and doesnt extend to 
reviewing or drafting  documentation. But Mr R said the policy  terms and conditions  dont limit 
him to how many times  he can call about one issue nor does it say the advice would only be 
on general terms. I understand  the points Mr R put forward. But Im not persuaded that a 
legal helpline  wouldve offered the same level of support  that he was able to get from the 
barrister.
I think if the legal helpline  had been  able to provide advice on this type of situation, it 
wouldve been on very generic terms. Mr R wouldve  needed to decide whether he dealt with 
the regulatory authority enquiries  on his own with general advice from his policy, or whether 
hed need to hire someone on a private  basis to assist him. From what  Mr R has said in his 
complaint, I think he needed more support  than what  the legal helpline is likely to have 
offered.
For this reason, I dont  think I can fairly ask DAS to reimburse Mr Rs costs in full. Ive no 
reason to doubt Mr Rs point that the barrister was the only lawyer he could  locate who could 
assist him with this specialist area.  But whilst hes provided us with the barristers invoice, 
this doesnt provide any breakdown of the work carried out, hourly rates, etc. So, Ive thought 
about what it wouldve  cost Mr R to obtain  the level of advice that the legal helpline  shouldve 
provided. From everything Ive seen I think £500  is fair and reasonable for the advice in the 
circumstances.
But I dont think that takes into account the impact  on Mr R when he didnt get support from 
the policy helpline that I think he was entitled to. It did mean he had to spend  his own time 
looking for the professional help that he needed  to get the advice he required. It would 
already have been a stressful situation  for Mr R to find himself in and I accept that he didnt 
Ref: DRN51890803think DAS had been very helpful. Taking this into account I think DAS should compensate Mr 
R for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. DAS should pay Mr R £150  for his 
trouble and upset.
responses to my provisional  decision
DAS accepted my provisional decision and said it had no further comments to make.
Mr R made  many detailed comments about all of the content in my provisional decision. Ive 
taken time to ensure Ive reviewed all his points  thoroughly. However,  Im not going to 
respond on every single point. Im going to focus on the ones that are key to the issues and 
this decision.
The policy was specifically for Mr Rs profession;
His claim wasnt declined;
The policy didnt deliver  what it shouldve done in terms of advice and policy cover;
Mr R had no choice but to get the advice he needed elsewhere.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr R makes a fair point about the policy being aimed  at his profession, Ive noted 
above that cover is for any personal legal problem.  The legal helpline was only going  to 
provide generic legal  advice (whether the advice was being sourced from in-house lawyers  
or elsewhere). But I think it didnt  even do that. It wasnt able to help Mr R when  it shouldve  
done.
To be clear, the policy does provide  cover  for claims  relating to disciplinary actions. But in Mr 
Rs situation that point hadnt been  reached. No disciplinary hearing had occurred. Mr Rs 
situation was at the fact finding  and pre-action  correspondence stage. So, if the full 
disciplinary stage had been reached then I believe DAS wouldve dealt with this in line with 
the policy wording.
Although I understand how strongly Mr R feels about the circumstances, I still think  the 
barrister did go much  further than any legal  advice the helpline  available  through the policy 
was going to provide.
I dont see any reason to change  my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN51890804my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Mr R compensation of £500  for the trouble and upset he was caused  by having to 
seek his own legal  advice.
pay £150 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189080