K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complained  because  U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) said it wouldnt pay for some  items 
of contents in settlement of a travel  insurance  claim. 
Background
Mr W claimed for the theft of a number  of items  that were stolen while  on holiday, with a total 
cost of approximately £4,000. UKI told him that it wont pay for his motorcycle leathers  and 
panniers because  it considered  them  accessories to the motorcycle which are excluded  
under the policy.  It also said it wouldnt cover  Mr Ws laptop, prescription glasses, 
sunglasses, and satnav  as they were  considered valuables  that had been  left in the 
motorcycle, which are also excluded under the policy.  
 
Mr W knows theres a personal possessions limit on his policy of £1,500, and thinks the 
claim should pay out up to that limit. He feels the policy is misleading because  it covers 
motorcycling providing the rider is wearing the relevant safety  equipment, but then doesnt 
cover that equipment.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. As the motorcycle  leathers 
shouldnt reasonably be considered a motorcycle accessory, he thought this should  be 
covered by the policy. But all other personal  items were excluded under the terms of the 
policy, so were correctly declined as part of the claim.
Neither Mr W nor UKI agreed  with our investigator. Mr W felt he should receive £1,500 
because this was the maximum UKI would pay under the policy. UKI said it would have to 
change the policy terms and conditions if the complaint was to be settled using our 
investigators logic.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the section  what  you are not covered  for the policy says:
Pedal cycles, motor  vehicles, caravans,  trailers,  camping equipment or parts or 
accessories of any of them,
and
Valuables left in a motor vehicle or motor home.
The terms and conditions  of the policy dont define  accessory so Ive taken what I consider  
its ordinary meaning  to be in determining whether or not the leathers and panniers should be 
considered accessories. In my view,  an accessory  is something  that can be added  to 
something else in order  to make it more  useful, versatile or attractive. 
With regards to the pannier, its attached  to the motorcycle  for storage. So its added  to the 
motorcycle to be able to hold more luggage,  making  the motorcycle more useful. So I 
consider this to be an accessory, and not covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN56350212The motorcycle leathers  dont attach to the vehicle and do not make it more  useful, versatile  
or attractive.  Whilst theyre useful  for the safety  of the motorcycle rider, and may well be 
considered an accessory to a motorcyclist, I dont think  its a fair interpretation to consider 
them an accessory  for the motorcycle itself. And as the policy doesnt exclude general  
accessories, I dont think this should be excluded under the terms of the policy.  
The laptop,  both pairs of glasses and satnav are specifically referred to in the policy 
definition of valuables.  These valuables were  left in the motorcycle when it was taken. So its 
fair to exclude these  from cover under the policy. 
Whilst the motorcycle leathers were  also left in the motorcycle, theyre not included under 
the definition of valuables in the policy terms. So it wouldnt be fair for UKI to exclude these 
from the claim, based on the same exclusion.
I realise the maximum cover  under  the policy is for £1,500. But that doesnt mean UKI has to 
pay up to this figure for items that arent  actually covered by the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  U K Insurance  Limited to settle Mr Ws claim for the 
motorcycle leathers, without restricting its liability by relying on the above clauses. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5635021