K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Lloyds Bank Plc didnt  allow him to withdraw cash  in branch when they 
shouldve. He thinks they should  pay him compensation for the trouble this caused.  
Mr R also complains Lloyds shouldnt have  increased the amount of money  he pays  for 
using his overdraft  on his current account. He thinks its discriminatory  to charge him 
differently to how hes charged  for his credit card. He says they failed to refund him charges 
in December 2017 which theyd agreed to do.
background
refusal to cash cheque
Mr R went into a Lloyds branch to withdraw funds in August 2017.  Lloyds refused the 
transaction. He says this caused him embarrassment and wouldnt have happened had 
Lloyds not changed their branch staff.  He says he went home in the rain to retrieve his card 
and on his return he had to wait too long to get served.
Lloyds say theyd  followed their procedure correctly. They need to verify  someones identity 
to protect  against fraud and this is usually  done  through chip and PIN. Mr R didnt have his 
card with him or other sufficient forms of identification, so it was reasonable to refuse the 
transaction. They also said the amount of time Mr R says he had to wait (45 minutes in total)  
wasnt unreasonable.
change to overdraft  charges
Mr R uses his £700 overdraft regularly. In November 2017 Lloyds changed the way they 
charge for their overdrafts. They switched to charging 1p per £7 of balance  used. This 
replaced their system  of charging  interest, usage  fees and other fees,  including  unplanned 
overdraft fees. This meant Mr Rs costs increased  by around £15 each month.
Lloyds say they are able to make the change to how they charge Mr R under the terms of his 
account. Theyd sent him a letter  giving  him notice of what was going to happen  in August 
2017.
Investigators findings
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
In relation to Lloyds  refusal to allow Mr R to withdraw cash they found:
-It was fair for Lloyds to refuse the transaction. Its common for banks  to require chip 
and PIN to identify  a customer when they want to make a withdrawal in branch. This 
is to try and prevent  the occurrence of fraud.
-Mr R didnt have any other forms of identification, such as photo identification, with 
him at the time. So Lloyds didnt have  another reasonable way to verify him.
Ref: DRN59136602-Its possible Mr R was able to withdraw money  in the past without  identification or his 
card. But this likely meant Lloyds  werent doing what they shouldve  on those 
occasions.
In relation to the change Lloyds made to Mr Rs overdraft they found:
-Lloyds actions were  not discriminatory  towards  Mr R. They  didnt relate to a 
protected characteristic  under  the Equality Act 2010.
.
-Credit cards and overdrafts are different types  of credit.  The basis of how customers  
are charged is often different. And there  is no current requirement that both products 
should be charged the same  way.
-We wouldnt look to see whether a term is unfair in general. This would be something 
for a regulator to look into. We would however consider the fairness of the change 
Lloyds made insofar as it affected Mr R personally.
-The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says a term which makes a unilateral  change to how 
a consumer is charged may not be unfair in certain circumstances.  Those  are when a 
consumer has notice  of the change and can exit the contract, which is a practical as 
well as a legal question.
-Lloyds sent Mr R a letter notifying  him of the change in August 2017. This was in line 
with the terms and conditions of his account  which required 60 days notice.
-Mr R has a limited  income and the charges  make his overdraft more expensive.  But 
his circumstances  dont appear  to be such that he has to continue with his overdraft. 
Its possible he can clear what he owes through other finance or through his pension  
payments.
 
Mr R disagreed and has asked for a final decision. So the complaint has now been  passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint  for broadly similar  reasons  to those made  by our investigator.
There are clearly several aspects that form Mr Rs complaint. So for clarity I think it best to 
address each one separately.
Lloyds refusal to cash Mr Rs cheque
Lloyds need to protect their customers accounts.  Part of this means having verification 
procedures in place.  They require a customer who wants to make  a withdrawal in branch to 
verify their identity using  chip and PIN. If the customer doesnt have their card they may be 
able to verify them through other means, such as through an acceptable  form of 
identification.
Ref: DRN59136603Mr R had neither his debit  card nor other forms of identification acceptable to Lloyds when 
he went into branch. I understand he has a long standing relationship with them and that he 
doesnt recall having  to verify himself before. But while this was frustrating for him, I dont 
think Lloyds shouldve cashed his cheque regardless. From their perspective  doing so 
couldve compromised  the security of one of their customers  accounts.
the change to Mr Rs overdraft charges
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a term which makes  a unilateral change  to how a 
customer is charged might not be unfair if a consumer receives notice of the change and can 
exit the contract. But whether a consumer can exit a contract is a practical consideration as 
well as a legal one.
I think Lloyds sent Mr R a notification letter in line with their terms and conditions. They have  
a record of dispatch dated 13 August 2017.  So I think  this was more  notice than the 60 days 
required under  the terms of the account.  
Ive also seen a template  of the letter Lloyds say wouldve been sent. I think the letter 
contained enough information for Mr R to have understood his overdraft would cost him 
more if he continued  to use it the same  way. It stated how the daily charge was calculated 
and gave examples  of what  this would cost per month based  on different balances.  
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr R couldve exited his contract. The terms of his contract  
allow him to at any time. But this is also a practical  consideration.
Mr R is on a limited  income. But I havent  seen  evidence  to suggest hed no alternative but to 
accept the change Lloyds made. Its possible he couldve obtained finance elsewhere  to pay 
off what he owed or used  some of his pension income to do so. Lloyds couldve called in 
what he owed at any time, so I dont  think this wouldve been an inappropriate thing for him 
to have considered.
Overall, I think Lloyds  did what they needed  to when they made the change to Mr Rs 
overdraft.
refund of fees
Mr R thinks Lloyds failed to refund him charges for December 2017. Lloyds records show 
they refunded  £16 of charges on 16 November 2017 and waived charges of £15.67 due in 
December 2017.  
These charges  relate to Mr Rs usage  of his overdraft in September  and October 2017. So 
they represent the monthly usage  fee and interest due under his old current  account  terms. I 
cant see Lloyds agreed to refund him the daily charges on his account for either November 
2017 or December  2017, and I dont require them to do so now.
has Lloyds discriminated against  Mr R?
I dont think Lloyds are being unfair by charging Mr R differently for the different credit 
products he holds with them. There is no current regulatory requirement for a bank to charge 
the same  way for different  products.  And for me to think Lloyds actions  were  discriminatory 
towards Mr R under  the Equality  Act 2010,  Id have to conclude  he was adversely affected 
because of a protected  characteristic under that act. I dont have  evidence  to show this is the 
case.
Ref: DRN59136604financial difficulties
I recognise the change  Lloyds  made to Mr Rs overdraft makes it more  expensive for him. 
And he might now think his overdraft is unaffordable  or he doesnt want it. If so, he might  
want to contact Lloyds  customer support unit to see how they can help. He may also wish to 
contact a debt charity if he would like advice beyond his Lloyds account. Our investigator 
provided the contact  numbers of such organisations in their view,  but Mr R is welcome to 
contact us again if he needs  these  numbers.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint for the reasons Ive explained  above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5913660