K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about 14 loans he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Ps behalf by a claims management  company.  But for ease I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mr P.
background
Mr P took out 14 short term loans  with WCL between January 2017 and July 2018. The 
loans were repayable  by one to four monthly  instalments. All the loans have been  repaid. 
A summary  of the loans  is shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 11/1/17 8/2/17 £200
2. 16/2/17 18/4/17 £200
3. 3/5/17 2/6/17 £200
4. 7/6/17 3/7/17 £200
5. 5/7/17 15/7/17 £300
6. 17/7/17 31/8/17 £200
7. 19/9/17 27/10/17 £200
8. 27/10/17 17/11/17 £400
9. 10/12/17 26/1/18 £400
10. 28/2/18 27/3/18 £600
11. 12/4/18 19/4/18 £300
12. 7/5/18 12/6/18 £300
13. 21/6/18 28/6/18 £200
14. 2/7/18 5/7/18 £200
WCL explained in its final response letter that it had conducted a creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment  on each  loan application.  Its calculations  were based on the income  
and expenditure  information that Mr P provided in each of his loan applications, together with 
real-time data on the level of his monthly  credit commitments received from credit  reference 
agencies. These demonstrated that Mr P had sufficient net household income to comfortably 
cover the agreed  repayments on each of his loans, without jeopardising his existing credit 
commitments and priority living expenses.
WCL also provided this service with more  information about  its assessment process. It said it 
tests a consumers  monthly  outgoings against  statistical data. If this results in higher 
expense figures than those provided by the consumer, it uses  the higher figures in its 
affordability assessment.  It noted  that Mr P had also added  his partners net income of 
£3000 in his application. WCL took this into account when considering  if the amount of 
mortgage payments  and other expenses provided  by Mr P as his share of household 
expenses, was reasonable in the circumstances.
WCL said that the pattern of Mr Ps loans with it, and his consistent repayments within just a 
few days of obtaining the loan, indicated that he was borrowing to cover a temporary 
shortfall, and was repaying in full as soon  as he had the funds available. With the exception 
of Loans 10 and 11, all of Mr Ps loans were for its minimum loan values of £200 or £300. 
Ref: DRN56853892They didnt increase in any way that would have indicated that Mr P was in financial distress.  
The scheduled loan repayments went down from Loan 11 onwards. 
WCL also offered a goodwill payment of £250  in order to bring the complaint  to a speedy  
conclusion.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ps complaint about  Loans 2 to 14 should be upheld. 
She said that WCL would  have seen from the information it gathered  during its credit  checks  
at the time of Loan 2 that Mr P had a significant  number of short  term loans. This should 
have alerted WCL that Mr P was having problems managing his money. So it was unlikely 
that he would be able to sustainably repay Loan  2 and any subsequent loans. She also said 
that by Loan 7 the overall pattern of borrowing suggested that Mr P was persistently reliant 
on short  term loans. The adjudicator recommended that WCL refund  Mr P the interest and 
charges paid on Loans 2 to 14 together with 8% interest from payment to the date of 
settlement. She said that this was in addition to the goodwill offer of £250. But she also 
asked WCL to say in its response whether  the offer was still open. 
WCL disagreed and responded to say in summary:
The purpose of its credit check was to check if Mr P had any negative  markers on his 
record. The results  of its searches  showed  that Mr P had a good credit record, with 
his recent credit  being well paid, and there  were  no county court judgements, 
independent voluntary  arrangements or bankruptcies on his record. 
The adjudicators  view was wrong for several reasons.  It was normal for customers  to 
have other short-term credit outstanding  when they approached it for a loan. It was 
not sufficient to look at the number of loans without also verifying  when they were 
taken out and how much  had been  repaid to date. Having  several short term loans  
did not mean that a customer was having problems managing  his money. It simply 
meant that they had a temporary need  for extra funds. 
In February 2017 when Loan  2 was taken out, Mr P had six open short-term  loans. 
All but one of these had been  taken out in 2016. Furthermore, he had repaid the vast 
majority of these loans and the total balance outstanding  was only £1,842. The total 
minimum monthly  repayment  was approximately £550. This was affordable to Mr P 
from his monthly net earnings which exceeded  £2000. 
The adjudicator hadnt engaged with any of the detailed  evidence provided by it 
regarding the affordability of the loan repayments.  
Mr P took out small loans for its minimum amounts of £200 and £300, and he repaid 
nearly all of them much earlier than required. The size and period of the loans didnt 
increase over the loan cycle, and in fact the later loans were  repaid earlier than the 
earlier ones. This was clear evidence that Mr P wasnt  in financial difficulty  at the time 
and the repayments werent  unsustainable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When WCL lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
Ref: DRN56853893WCL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that WCL should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that WCL was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
WCL did a number of checks  before it lent to Mr P. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr Ps declared  income  ranged from £2,032  to £2,188.  Mr P also 
declared his partners income of £3,000. His declared expenditure was £1,300  before  all the 
loans. Mr P declared that he spent £250  on loans,  £700 on his mortgage and £350 on 
utilities, food and travel. But he said that he didnt spend anything on other  credit  
commitments. 
WCL also checked Mr Ps credit file before agreeing to the loans. WCL has provided  us with 
information about Mr Ps credit commitments from its checks for some of the loans. I shall 
refer to this below.
Ref: DRN56853894Weve received a credit  report  from Mr P. Mr Ps credit report showed other short term loans. 
I shall refer to the short term loans shown in Mr Ps credit report  below.
Im aware that when  a lender carries  out a credit  check, the information it sees  doesnt  
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, not all of Mr Ps short  term 
loans may have been identified by WCLs credit check. 
Mr P needed  to make two monthly  loan repayments  on Loan 1 with a highest  repayment of 
£124.61. I cant see that weve received WCLs credit check  before Loan 1 so I dont know  
what WCL would have  seen about  Mr Ps credit  situation. Mr P declared his income as 
£2,032 and his regular  expenditure as £1,300.  
I dont think the repayment  amounts for Loan 1 were  so large that its obvious  they wouldve 
caused Mr P financial difficulty. Given Mr Ps repayment amounts,  what was apparent about 
his circumstance  at the time, and that this was his first loan with the lender, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for WCL to ask him for the amount  of information that would be 
needed to show  Loan 1 was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided before Loan 1 or the information  
WCL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I dont think WCL was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr P.
Loan 2 was taken out eight days after Loan 1 was repaid. The loan amount was again £200 
to be repaid by two monthly repayments  with a highest repayment of £145.35. 
Ive seen a list of Mr Ps short term credit  commitments from WCLs credit checks. These 
totalled around £1,240  which was substantially higher than the loan repayments of £250 he 
had declared. The checks also appeared to show other loan repayments of £412. I think  
WCL should have  been aware from its checks that some of these may have been short term 
loans. 
I think the number  and amount of outstanding short term loans suggest that Mr P was likely 
finding it difficult to manage his money  and that WCL ought to have been concerned  about  
whether it knew enough  about  Mr Ps financial situation. So I think  it would have been 
proportionate for WCL to have asked some questions about what its credit checks  showed. I 
cant see that it did this.
Had it done so, its likely  that WCL wouldve learnt  that Mr P had around five outstanding 
short term loans with repayments due at the same time as the repayments on Loan  2. Some 
of the loans shown on its own checks had been  repaid but he had also taken another  short  
term loan not shown on WCLs credit checks. Ive seen the loans on Mr Ps own credit report 
and his bank statements. I think that the number and amount of Mr Ps outstanding short 
term loans should  have put WCL on notice  that Mr P was having serious problems managing 
his money. And I dont  think it was reasonable for WCL  to conclude that Loan 2 could be 
repaid in a sustainable  manner. So I think it was wrong for WCL to give Loan 2 to Mr P. 
Loan 3 was taken out around two weeks after Loan  2 was repaid. And Loan 4 was taken out 
just five days after Loan 3 was repaid. Each of the loan amounts was again £200  to be 
repaid by two monthly repayments with a highest repayment of £131.90 and £127.71 
Ref: DRN56853895respectively. I cant see that weve received WCLs credit checks before Loans  3 and 4. But 
in view of the contents  of WCLs credit checks before Loan 2, I think  it would have been 
proportionate for WCL to again have asked some questions about  Mr Ps other  short term 
loans.
Had it done so, its likely  that WCL wouldve learnt  that Mr P had around nine outstanding 
other short term loans  before  Loan  3 and eight outstanding other  short term loans before 
Loan 4 with repayments due at the same  time as the repayments on Loans 3 and 4. I can 
see these on Mr Ps own credit report and his bank  statements. I think that the number of 
Mr Ps outstanding short term loans should  have put WCL on notice that Mr P was having 
serious problems managing his money.  And I dont think it was reasonable for WCL to 
conclude that Loans 3 and 4 could be repaid in a sustainable manner. So I think  it was 
wrong for WCL to give Loans 3 and 4 to Mr P. And in these circumstances, I think  WCL 
ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr P wouldve been able to sustainably repay any 
subsequent loans. Loans 5 and 6 were taken  within two weeks of Loan 4 being repaid and I 
think these were also provided unfairly.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of WCLs lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which the lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so WCL should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 7. I say this because:
Mr P had taken out a loan of £200 around  eight months earlier and he was now again 
asking for a loan of £200. He hadnt  made  any inroads into his debt over this time 
and had paid high interest rates to, in effect,  service a debt to WCL over an extended 
period. 
Mr P had repaid  his loans early. I think that behaviour should have caused  concerns 
to WCL 
There were  some  small gaps between loans being repaid and a new loan being  
granted. But, I dont  think it would have  been  reasonable for WCL to conclude these 
gaps were any indication that Mr Ps finances had moved on from whatever situation 
had required his previous loans.
I can see that as WCL didnt stop lending at this point, Mr P went  on to take out high cost 
loans for a further ten months.  
I think that Mr P lost out because WCL continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 7 onwards  
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr P had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN56853896The fact that all the loans were repaid doesnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr P undue difficulty.  
Ive considered above some of the main points WCL made in response to the adjudicators 
view. Ive considered  other points below.
WCL said that the purpose of its credit checks was to check  if Mr P had any negative 
markers on his record. But I think the purpose  of credit checks  is to ensure that there is 
nothing in the available information that might show lending will be unaffordable. And a 
lender also needs to react to the information shown on such checks. 
Its clear that WCLs checks before Loan 2 showed  that Mr Ps credit commitments  were far 
larger than those declared by Mr P and should have  suggested  to WCL that Mr P was 
having serious problems managing his money.  Where a lender is aware of such  things, and 
even in the case of early  loans in a chain with relatively moderate monthly repayments, I 
dont think its unreasonable or disproportionate  to expect a lender to carry out further 
enquiries to find out whether a consumer  is going  to be able to sustainably repay their loan. 
So I think WCLs checks should have  prompted it to ask more about Mr Ps other short  term 
loans. And further  checks would have shown that Mr P was borrowing from a number of 
lenders and was committed to repaying  a large  proportion of his normal income to those 
lenders. The checks should have also suggested  that WCL couldnt  rely on the information 
Mr P provided, and I think this should have been a significant red flag for the lender. 
WCL also said that it was normal  for its borrowers  to have other short term loans and that 
having short  term loans  didnt mean  a borrower  was having problems managing their money. 
It said that this was just a temporary need  for extra funds. But when a consumer has been  
borrowing short term loans with very little break over a number of months, I think  this shows  
that the loans  werent being  used  in the way that they were  intended  to be used. It should 
have concerned WCL that Mr P wasnt using these loans to meet  a one off shortfall  in his 
income but rather to meet  an ongoing need.  
There were also cases  where  Mr P was taking  a new loan within a few days of settling  a 
previous one. I think these suggested that Mr P had to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances.
Ive also noted  above that I think regularly repaying loans earlier  than planned should have 
caused some concerns  to WCL. That might be the sort of behaviour  that would indicate that 
someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on a 
regular basis.
WCL has also referred to Mr Ps partners income.  But I dont think  that its reasonable for 
WCL to have assumed  that Mr Ps credit  commitments,  which  are the responsibility  of the 
borrower, would  be shared  with his partner in the same way that household  expenses might 
be. The loans  from WCL and his other short term lenders were paid into a bank account in 
Mr Ps sole name. It appears that Mr P repaid his short term loans from his own money
 
I note that WCL said that Mr P had two loans higher than its minimum loan values of £200 
and £300. But I can see that Loans  8 to 10 were higher  than those amounts. And Mr Ps loan 
amounts never reduced from his initial loan of £200.
WCL also said that the adjudicator hadnt  engaged with the detailed affordability evidence  it 
had provided. I havent recreated detailed affordability assessments of the loans in dispute. 
Ref: DRN56853897This is mainly because I think the number of loans and the pattern of lending  here are of 
concern.
I note that WCL said that Mr P had ample disposable income to cover his loan repayments. 
But WCL was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably  repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. And 
WCL will know from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our website)  that there 
are cases  where this service considers the overall lending pattern and not just the 
affordability of each loan.  When a consumer borrows  numerous loans over a long period  of 
time, its most likely that the loans arent being used  for their intended purpose of temporary  
cash flow problems. As WCL will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent  letter to CEOs  of 
high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of 
unsustainable lending  patterns. And I think thats  the case here.
So, Im upholding  this complaint in part in relation to Loans 2 to 14 and WCL should put 
things right as set out below.
I note that the adjudicators award  was in addition to WCLs goodwill offer of £250. But she 
also asked WCL to say in its response  whether  the offer was still open.  As WCL hadnt 
commented on this in its response, I asked the adjudicator to raise this with WCL. The 
lender said that the offer would be withdrawn and not offered in addition to any final 
decision decided by the ombudsman. I then asked  the adjudicator to ask Mr P for his 
comments on this. He responded  to say that he had no comments.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat,  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 2 to 14;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Remove adverse  entries about Loans 2 to 6 from Mr Ps credit file; and
4.Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 14 from Mr Ps credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5685389