K821x#15Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that documents held with HSBC UK Bank Plc for safe storage couldnt be 
located and he was then told his documents had been disposed  of without his consent.
Mr M wants a more  adequate explanation of what happened to his documents  and for HSBC  
to acknowledge  and recognise the gravity of its actions.
Mr M doesnt consider  the offer of compensation made by HSBC  enough given the issue he 
experienced and the problems he faced in trying  to understand what  happened  to his 
documents.
Background
In September  2018, Mr M visited a branch of HSBC  and asked to retrieve  documents  hed 
stored in safekeeping and to cancel his annual  safe fee. He was told that it appeared he had 
a document that could be a life policy, and this was held at another  branch. It was agreed 
that any documents would  be sent to his local branch for collection.  Mr M didnt receive any 
further news and after following up with his branch his issue  was escalated  to HSBCs 
service recovery  team.
In December 2018, Mr M was told that his item had been moved to a central  storage site 
more than a year prior to his request. He was told that the document  had been requested 
and that Mr M would be contacted to arrange  collection. Mr M wrote  to HSBC's Head of 
Service Recovery on 23 January 2019  because he still hadn't heard anything, but he didn't 
receive a response.
In February 2018,  Mr M says he was called to say that three documents had been  destroyed  
in 2010 because they had expired.  Mr M requested  further details  and found  the documents 
were mortgage protection policies. He said he hadnt given authorisation for them  to be 
destroyed and that he had wanted  them  returned.
At the time of Mr Ms complaint, HSBC said that Mr Ms customer profile  showed  that it had 
held three  separate life policies, but the policies  had been released in 2010  because theyd 
expired and had been  considered  by the bank  as obsolete. It concluded the documents  were 
likely disposed of and were no longer  being stored.  It offered to refund the storage charges 
Mr M had paid since 2010 and offered to pay him £150 in compensation.
Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs offer, and brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and recommended it be upheld. He said HSBC  
was wrong to have  disposed  of Mr Ms documentation without his consent but thought the 
offer of compensation of £150 was fair. He thought interest should be added to the refund of 
storage fees,  to reflect the fact Mr M had been  without this money  for some time.
HSBC accepted the findings, but Mr M disagreed.  He thought HSBC should provide  a more 
thorough explanation of what had happened to his documents. And he thought it should 
increase its offer of compensation too.
Since the view was issued, further  evidence has been provided suggesting that Mr M did 
have a document in safe keeping with HSBC. This was a pension policy and it was returned 
to Mr M.
Ref: DRN52498052My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
When Mr M visited the branch  in September 2018, he wanted to retrieve  any 
documents held in safe keeping and to cancel the annual safe fee he was paying.
The branch  checked the system  and said it appeared that Mr M had a document  held 
at another branch. There was then an extended period in which Mr M had to chase 
HSBC for a response and didnt receive  the information he requested. He was given 
inconclusive information and I understood why he became  frustrated  by the process.
In February 2019, Mr M was given information  about three  mortgage  protection 
policies that were linked to his customer profile and had expired. These  documents  
were said to have been  released  due to being obsolete. I understood why Mr M was 
concerned that these  had been  destroyed without  his consent.
Following our investigation, it appeared that a document was in HSBCs open  safe 
custody. This wasnt the three  documents that had previously been noted but a 
pension plan. I understood  this had since been  returned to Mr M.
On balance, I found it more likely than not that the pension plan was the item in 
Mr Ms safe keeping. This linked  to the initial comment made to Mr M in September 
2018 regarding  an item being  identified at another branch. While it was unclear  
whether the mortgage  security documents were  in safekeeping for Mr M, or whether 
this was a separate issue and the only item in the safekeeping was returned, what  
was clear was that Mr M hadnt  been provided with the service he should have been.
Mr M first asked  for the document held in safe keeping in September  2018. This 
should have been  a reasonably straight forward request. However,  he had to chase 
for a response and was provided  with inconclusive information. He had to wait until 
February 2019 when  he was told that his documents may have been destroyed. 
Given Mr M hadnt consented to this I understood why he was concerned and why, 
based on HSBCs response, he felt HSBC hadnt appreciated the gravity of its 
actions.
However, further evidence suggested  that the item in safe keeping  was a pension 
plan and this was provided to Mr M. The delay in providing  this caused unnecessary 
concern for Mr M and the confusing information regarding the mortgage securities 
and the destruction of these also caused unnecessary distress.
HSBC offered to refund Mr M the safe fees he had paid since 2010,  which  were 
around £165 along with interest and pay him £150 compensation.  This offer was 
made when the understanding was that the document held in safe keeping  had been  
destroyed in 2010.  As a document was located  that had been  kept in safe keeping  
and was returned in 2019, I thought  a fairer resolution was for the fees not to be 
refunded but instead £400 compensation to be paid to reflect the time Mr M had to 
spend trying to locate  his document and the upset he was caused by the information  
he received regarding destroyed documents.
Ref: DRN52498053I understood that Mr M wanted  a detailed account of what  had happened to his 
documents and for HSBC to acknowledge the issues  it has caused. I found that 
HSBC had provided the details it has available and returned the document  it held. 
Therefore, I didnt require it to do anything further regarding this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  He said he had asked for an honest  and 
transparent account of what had happened regarding his documents and noted potential  
data breaches.  He said he would have been amenable  to an honest  apology and adequate 
compensation, but neither  were  provided.  He said that actions of HSBC  made  him become  
suspicious and to lose trust.
Mr M didnt  think  my provisional decision had addressed  all the points he had raised  in 
adequate detail and asked for a breakdown of how the compensation amount had been 
determined.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I do not think that Mr M was provided with the service  
he should have  been, and I set out my reasons  for this. Mr M has raised his concerns about  
a data breach  and wanted my decision to comment on this regarding  data protection  rules 
including the General  Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Its not our role to decide  if a 
business has breached data protection  laws. This is for the Information Commissioners  
Office (ICO) to decide. 
However, we can consider whether  its fair and reasonable to tell a business to pay 
compensation or take any other action to recognise  the impact  of whats happened on the 
consumer. In this case, I have assessed  Mr Ms complaint as a whole and decided what 
compensation I believe fair based  on this.
The information provided to Mr M through his time dealing with this issue has been 
inconsistent and lacking  detail. However, based on the evidence  that I have seen, I think 
what most likely  happened is that Mr M had a pension policy in safe keeping with HSBC  and 
after an extended search this was located  and returned. Because of this I find that the safe 
keeping fees were able to be charged  until the point of return. But in thinking about what  
appropriate compensation is here, Ive taken  account of the fact that despite paying  these 
fees Mr M will have  lost trust in the service he was paying for over this time, which will only 
have added to his worries.
The other documents that have been  referred  to through the discussions, I think were more 
likely than not documents on HSBCs  system rather than policies Mr M had placed in safe 
keeping. These were destroyed when they became obsolete. I understand the points Mr M 
has raised in regard to this but I find that HSBC has tried to explain what  has happened and 
while I appreciate  Mr M doesnt think this is satisfactory,  I find the appropriate steps  to take 
now are for HSBC to pay him compensation for the time he has spent  dealing  with this 
matter and the upset  the conflicting information provided has caused him. 
I said in my provisional decision that Mr M should  be paid £400 compensation. Mr M has 
asked how this amount  was calculated. When considering an amount of compensation, I 
Ref: DRN52498054take into account whether there  has been any financial  loss due to the mistakes made. In 
this case I have no evidence that this has happened. My role isnt to punish a business  for its 
mistakes but to offer compensation where  I consider this is fair. In this case Mr M spent a lot 
of time trying  to get answers  and was caused unnecessary distress by the information  he 
was provided with. Because of this I think compensation is required. Having considered  the 
time and upset Mr M was caused in dealing with this complaint I find that £400 is a 
reasonable amount of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M 
£400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused while trying to locate  his 
documents held in safe keeping.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5249805