K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc:
-wouldnt offer them  a personal residential mortgage to replace two business loans; 
and 
-charged them excessive interest  and fees on the loans.
background
On 29 May 2008, HSBC  offered Mr and Mrs B two interest-only business loans, with 
maximum loan facilities  of £330,000 and £470,000. The purpose  was to assist  with the 
development of land,  and the loans were due to be reviewed a year later. At the time of the 
loans, it was expected that Mr and Mrs B would have completed the development, and the 
money could then be refinanced onto a personal residential mortgage.
But by the time of the review, HSBCs policies on lending, and assessment of affordability, 
had changed,  and the bank wouldnt offer a personal mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs B experienced  difficulties,  and couldnt  sell the property, or obtain  alternative 
mortgage finance elsewhere. They also said that some development projects which theyd 
intended to use to pay off the borrowing had been delayed because  of planning issues.  
As Mr and Mrs B couldnt refinance their loans  elsewhere, they asked HSBC to renew them.  
The bank wrote a number of letters over the years, expressing concern about the situation 
and asking for actions  to address the concerns. These letters  included  those sent on 8 
February 2011, 17 August 2012, 23 September 2014, 15 April 2015, 7 March  2016, 25 
November 2016  and 3 January 2018.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs B complained to HSBC, about the fact that the bank had 
decided in 2009 that it wouldnt refinance the loans  to a personal  residential mortgage.
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said that it was sorry that it hadnt  been 
able to agree to refinance the loans in 2009, which had been because of changes to its 
lending criteria and assessment of affordability. But it pointed out that it had renewed the 
facilities annually for nine years at Mr and Mrs Bs request, when theyd said they were 
continuing to attempt to obtain  refinancing  elsewhere. HSBC said that the facility letters had 
always set out the interest rate changes and fees payable, and it believed the bank had 
been patient and supportive  over the ten years since originally granting the loans.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied and complained to this service.
The adjudicator explained that this service has to work  within rules set out for us by the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). These rules  say that we cant consider a 
complaint if its referred to us:
-more than six years after the event complained  of, or 
-more than three years from when  the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, that they had cause for complaint.
The documents showed that Mr and Mrs B had met HSBC on 14 December 2010, and 
HSBC had written a follow-up letter on 8 February 2011. This confirmed the re-mortgage 
hadnt been completed because of changes to the banks lending policy. And it set out the 
Ref: DRN53098172banks concerns, and what  had been  agreed as actions, and the revised  rate of interest 
resulting from the banks  reassessment of the risk of the loan. 
The adjudicator considered that it was at that point that Mr and Mrs B ought reasonably to 
have known they had cause for complaint. Theyd  brought the complaint  to us in February  
2019. So they were too late to bring a complaint.
Mr and Mrs B said they hadnt been aware they had cause to complain. They  said that they 
felt it counted as exceptional circumstances, because HSBC  had only told them  they could 
complain to the Financial  Ombudsman Service in its January 2019 letter. The adjudicator 
didnt agree, and repeated his view that we couldnt  look at the complaint. But he said that 
what he could look at was their belief that HSBC had charged  an excessive interest rate and 
charges in the last six years.
Mr and Mrs B confirmed  theyd like the adjudicator to look at the interest  rate and charges. 
They said that the monthly interest only payments were based on 3.5%,  which they paid for 
around nine years. But the residential mortgage  would have been  charged at an interest  rate 
of 0.5%  over the base rate. Theyd  also had to pay loan renewal charges every  time the loan 
was reviewed. They asked how they could afford  the excessive loan charges, but not the 
much cheaper mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its correct that there are rules about  when this service can and cant  consider a complaint. 
Ive set these out above. Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us in February 2019. This 
was:
-more than six years after HSBCs  2009  refusal  to transfer  their borrowing to a 
personal residential mortgage;  and
-more than three years from the date when I consider they should reasonably  have 
known they had cause to complain. At the latest  I find that this was HSBCs  follow-up  
letter dated  8 February 2011. 
I am not persuaded that exceptional  circumstances apply to Mr and Mrs Bs case. Its not 
sufficient to say they didnt know  about this service.  HSBC didnt have to notify them about 
this service until it was issuing a formal  response  to a formal  complaint. Ive seen nothing on 
file to show that Mr and Mrs B put in a formal  complaint to HSBC before late 2018. And 
HSBC did include the referral rights to this service in its final response  to that complaint. 
I note that in Mr and Mrs Bs reply  to HSBCs letter of 2 January  2019,  they allege  that the 
bank created such a climate of fear for not repaying  our borrowing that we were too 
frightened to say anything.  Yet at the start of the same letter, they also accepted  that First 
of all I would  like to state that the bank has been supportive to us and has understood that 
the delays to the repayment of our borrowing has been  outside our control. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs B were so frightened  of HSBC that they didnt  dare complain 
within the time limits.
It might be helpful to give an example of exceptional circumstances. One example might  
be where all parties to the complaint  had been  hospitalised and medically incapacitated 
throughout the relevant  time. 
Ref: DRN53098173So I dont  have jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint that HSBC wouldnt offer 
them a personal  residential mortgage  to replace two business  loans. 
I have considered the other part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint: that HSBC charged  them  
excessive interest and fees on the loans. Because of the jurisdiction issues, I can only 
consider this for the six years before  they brought their complaint to this service in February 
2019.
Over the years, Mr and Mrs B requested multiple renewals of their loan facilities, and the 
letters from HSBC confirm  that the requested renewals were  offered subject to conditions. 
The bank was entitled to re-assess the risk of its loans to Mr and Mrs B, and to offer revised 
terms including higher interest rates,  if Mr and Mrs B chose to continue  the borrowing.  I find 
that the terms were  clearly set out. There are no set scales for what  interest rates  or fees a 
bank can charge. Its up to the lender to take their own commercial decisions,  bearing in 
mind the risk of not getting their money  back, and other commercial factors.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs B have  said they didnt have any choice about renewing the 
loans because one of HSBCs relationship  managers made  constant  verbal  threats of 
forcing a sale of our home. I dont have evidence  either way about  what  was said verbally 
during the years from 2012 onwards. But it was open to Mr and Mrs B to look elsewhere and 
to find re-financing with another lender. Theyve said they tried but couldnt  do this. But the 
fact they other lenders werent willing to take on Mr and Mrs Bs loans, doesnt mean that 
HSBC had to reduce  the interest rate and fees it charged them.
Mr and Mrs B have  also said that HSBC refused the residential mortgage  in 2009 on 
grounds of affordability, but then charged three times the interest rate they would have been  
charged on a mortgage. As Ive explained,  I cant consider HSBCs refusal to offer Mr and 
Mrs B a residential mortgage,  because they brought the complaint to this service too late for 
us to consider.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5309817