K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss B took out two loans  with UBF and details of these are shown below. Only Loan 1 has 
been repaid. 
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Highest monthly 
repayment amountRepayment date
1. 3/7/2017 £200 £91.72 18/9/2017
2. 18/9/2017 £250 £126.41 Outstanding
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded that Loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have been lent. He said that the 
checks UBF did would have shown  that Miss B had outstanding  short term loans. 
UBF disagreed. It said that the repayments on Miss Bs loans were  respectively 6.5%  and 
9% of her income which wasnt excessive.  It said that the repayments for Loan 1 had been 
made on the due dates.  UBF also said that Miss Bs declared disposable income  suggested 
that she had over £450 for unexpected expenses. It also said that its credit  checks  before 
Loan 1 showed no judgements or insolvencies, no defaults in the previous 12 months, no 
short term loans in the previous six months  and no outstanding loan balances. UBF noted 
that Miss B had opened  one account  in the previous six months.  It said that Miss B had 
provided different  information before Loan 2 and it asked to see Miss Bs bank statements to 
verify her income and expenditure.
The adjudicator responded by telling UBF he had seen three  short term loans on UBFs 
credit checks before  Loan 1.
UBF said that one of the three loans on its credit  check before Loan  1 wasnt  a short  term 
loan, but a line of credit product with non-monthly repayments. It also said that one of the 
other loans  had been repaid before Loan 1. And the third loan with a repayment of £95 was 
within Miss Bs capacity. UBF also said that as it hadnt seen Miss Bs bank statements, it 
couldnt reach conclusions for Loan 2. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B 
and to UBF on 11 November 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  UBF lent to Miss B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that UBF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN50271862the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that UBF was required to establish whether Miss B could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Bs complaint.
Id noted that UBF had carried out a credit  check before each loan was granted  and UBF 
had provided us with copies  of its credit checks before each loan. 
I couldnt see that wed received a credit report from Miss B so I couldnt say there were 
entries on her file that shouldve concerned UBF.
Miss Bs first loan with UBF was for £200 with three monthly repayments with a highest 
repayment amount  of £91.72. Miss B had declared  an income of £1,400 and expenditure of 
£850. Before Loan 1, UBFs credit  check showed that Miss B had 12 active  credit accounts 
with one account opened in the previous six months. There was also an account which had 
been delinquent in the previous twelve months, but Miss B had no defaults. The check also 
showed that Miss Bs outstanding loan balance was £225. Id also seen the three  
outstanding loans on the check which the adjudicator had referred  to. Id noted that one of 
those loans didnt  appear to be a short term loan. 
Ref: DRN50271863I could see that Miss Bs other  borrowing on UBFs credit checks  before Loan  1 might have 
suggested to it that her finances were under pressure. But considering Miss Bs declared 
disposable income before Loan 1, I didnt think the repayment amounts on Loan 1 were so 
large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Miss B financial difficulty.  
On balance, I thought that the checks UBF carried out before agreeing  Loan  1 were 
proportionate. And given  Miss Bs repayment amounts for Loan  1, what was apparent  about  
her circumstances at the time, and that this was her first loan with the lender, I didnt think  it 
would have been proportionate for UBF to have asked  her for the amount of information that 
would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss B had provided or the 
information UBF shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I didnt think UBF was wrong to give Loan 1 to 
Miss B.
Miss B had repaid Loan 1 on the due date. But shed taken out Loan 2 on the same date 
which was for the higher amount of £250.  I considered this to be an indicator of potential  
financial difficulties which should have caused some  concerns to UBF. 
Loan 2 was repayable by three monthly  repayments  with a highest  repayment amount of 
£126.41. Before  Loan 2, UBFs  credit  check showed  that Miss B had 16 active  credit 
accounts including a defaulted account in the previous twelve  months. I could see that seven 
accounts had been opened in the previous six months and that Miss B had four delinquent 
accounts in the previous twelve months.  Her loan balance had increased to £1,068.  I could 
see that there were  a number of outstanding loans although it was difficult to know whether  
these were short term loans. But overall I thought that this check  suggested that Miss Bs 
financial situation had significantly  deteriorated in the ten week  period since shed taken out 
Loan 1. I thought all this should have suggested  to UBF that Miss B was having problems 
managing her money. 
I appreciated that UBF had asked Miss B for her income and expenditure. But I thought 
Miss Bs immediate request for Loan  2 on the same date shed repaid Loan 1, the increased 
loan amount and the adverse entries  in UBFs credit  check might have suggested that it 
wasnt reasonable for UBF to rely on the information provided by Miss B. On balance, I 
thought it might have  been proportionate  at that time for UBF to do some more checks such 
as asking Miss B for more  information about  her other short term lending.
I would normally have  looked at a borrowers bank statements and credit report  to see what  
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Miss Bs credit 
report or her bank statements for the month before Loan 2. Id noted that the adjudicator had 
asked Miss B for her bank  statements and credit report in March  2019 so shed had ample 
time to provide  these. So I couldnt  say that if UBF had completed  sufficient  checks, it would 
have found that Miss B couldnt afford  to repay  Loan 2 sustainably. So I couldnt  say that 
UBF was wrong to give Loan 2 to Miss B.
Subject to any further representations by Miss B or UBF my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint although I said my proposed decision might change  if 
I received Miss Bs credit  report and bank  statements for August and September  2017.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it.
Ref: DRN50271864UBF responded to my provisional decision to say that it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Miss B has accepted my provisional  decision  and that UBF has given me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5027186