K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Quidie Limited, (QL), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans QL provided to Mr S between July 2015 and 
August 2015.  The loans  were repayable by one monthly repayment. Both the loans have 
been repaid. A summary of Mr Ss lending history  is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Repayment amount  
1. 22/7/15 10/8/15 £400 £505.60
2. 17/8/15 1/2/16 £400 £521.60
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She recommended that 
Mr Ss complaint about Loans 1 and 2 be upheld. 
QL hasnt provided a response to the adjudicators  recommendations and so the complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When QL lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
QL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr S could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QL should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN51500992refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QL was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
QL did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked  him for details of his income  which 
it verified. Mr Ss declared income  was £1,700. QL checked Mr Ss employment and housing 
status. From the information QL gathered, it said that Mr S was employed and lived with his 
parents. 
QL also checked  Mr Ss credit file before agreeing  to the loans. It has provided us with a 
summary of the results of its credit checks. It said that Mr S had six active credit  accounts 
which included a current account and a phone account. It also said that there  were  no 
accounts in arrears and there were no defaults.  But QL was aware that Mr Ss total credit 
balances were £6,253 before Loan  1 and £7,283 before Loan 2.
Mr S has provided his credit report  to us. I can see that Mr Ss credit report showed he had 
taken out other short term loans and I shall refer to these below.
Mr Ss first loan with QL was for £400 to be repaid by one repayment  of £505.60. Mr S had 
declared an income of £1,700. I think Mr Ss repayment amount on Loan 1 was a significant 
proportion of his income.  So, I think it might  have been proportionate  at this time for QL to 
have gathered some further information from Mr S about his expenditure and other short  
term lending. Had it done so, its likely that QL wouldve learnt that Mr S had borrowed twice 
from two other short term lenders at the same  time as he was borrowing from QL. I can see 
from Mr Ss bank  statement and credit report that his two other short  term loans totalled 
£1,065. So he was committed to repaying a large  proportion  of his normal income to those 
lenders. I think it would have been  clear to QL that Mr S was facing  significant  problems 
managing his money, and that it was unlikely that he would be able to repay any new 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think QL should have given this loan to 
Mr S, and needs to put things right.
Mr S borrowed Loan 2 a week  after Loan 1. The loan was still for £400, and it was repayable 
by one repayment of £521.60.  And I think for the same reasons as set out above for Loan 1 
that QL should  have  put together a clearer picture of Mr Ss finances before  agreeing  to lend 
Ref: DRN51500993to him going  forwards.  And if QL had carried out proportionate checks  before Loan  2, it 
would have seen,  as I have seen from Mr Ss bank statements and credit  report, that Mr S 
was again having difficulties managing his money  as he borrowed six other payday loans 
from three other lenders at the same time as Loan  2. These totalled almost £4,500. It would 
also have seen that Mr S was in arrears with his short term borrowing with another lender. 
Again I think that the number and amounts of Mr Ss other short  term loans show that Loan  2 
wasnt likely to be sustainably repaid. So I dont think that QL should have lent Loan 2 to 
Mr S.
So Im upholding  this complaint and QL should  put things right as follows.
putting things right  what QL needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on both the loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse entries about the loans  from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QL to take off tax from this interest.  QL must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Quidie Limited  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr S paid on both the loans;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;  and
3.Remove any adverse  entries about  the loans from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QL to take off tax from this interest.  QL must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5150099