K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has not paid his travel insurance  claim 
and about the way its handled his claim.
My references to UKI include its agents. 
background
In early June 2018 Mr Ps flight to a European  country was cancelled. At the same time he 
made a claim to UKI for his pre-booked accommodation (£255) and parking  charges (£89).  I 
understand he received a refund of the flight costs.
UKI asked  Mr P for information  including evidence of the amounts refunded to him by the 
airline. Mr P said hed sent UKI the information hed received. UKI spoke to Mr P, the parking 
provider and the airline but ultimately  wasnt satisfied with the information  Mr P had sent it. 
So it didnt settle his claim.
Mr P also complained about delay and that hed not received  call backs.  UKI accepted there 
had been some delays and said sorry. It said it would pay for any calls where  Mr P had been 
kept on hold, subject to evidence of the costs. But it said Mr P hadnt sent it the information it 
required so wouldnt pay the claim.  He came  to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint because she didnt think Mr P had sent UKI the 
information it had requested from the airline with a breakdown of the amounts the airline had 
paid him. Mr P disagreed, but sent a screenshot of the email hed received from the airline. 
After a further exchange UKI said that Mr Ps parking costs had been refunded but hed not 
amended his claim to show that. Given that and information from the airline  about  the 
amount it said it had paid Mr P UKI wasnt willing to pay the remaining claim without 
evidence of the refunds he received and what these were for. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached the complaints  come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether UKI made  a fair decision not to pay Mr Ps claim. I also need to 
decide whether  it responded  fairly to his complaints  about its claim handling.  I will focus on 
the issues that I consider to be central  to this dispute. 
Under the policy Mr P was covered for abandoned international departure (outbound only),  
for his unused deposits; accommodation and travel  costs;  and unused  parking charges if he 
chose to abandon his trip because his pre-booked  aircraft was delayed  beyond the time 
shown on his travel itinerary at the point of international departure from the UK by more than 
six hours (if his trip was scheduled to last four nights or less).
Mr P contacted UKI on the date his flight was cancelled and indicated  his claim would be for 
his accommodation  costs (£255) and parking costs (£89).  Mr P has now confirmed that he 
did, in fact, receive a refund from the airline for his parking  costs  of £89. But hes provided 
an email from the airline saying that he didnt receive any refund of his accommodation 
costs. 
Ref: DRN50060302Ive reviewed UKIs contact notes  and its correspondence with Mr P. I think it was entitled  to 
ask him for information to support his claim. I also think UKI was fairly entitled to look into his 
claim further because the airline indicated that it had paid him a total of £1,057, being a total 
refund for the flights and two other refunds of £269 and £89.
Both UKI and this service has asked the airline  to send  a breakdown of the amounts it paid 
Mr P, because the email  he has sent from it showing a list of payments dont tally with the 
refund the airline has told UKI that he received. The airline told UKI in October 2018 that it 
had sent the breakdown to Mr P. UKI asked  him to send  a screenshot of the breakdown  but 
hes not done so. Hes since sent a screenshot of the original email he received from the 
airline in July 2018, but that doesnt  explain the discrepancy in the amounts the airline told 
UKI it had paid him.
Also, Mr P has since  confirmed that he did, in fact, receive  a refund of the parking costs 
(£89) from the airline. Its not clear to me why hed not told it about that refund when UKI 
said the information it had received indicated that hed received his parking costs back. 
The airline has since sent an email saying that Mr P didnt receive any refund  for 
accommodation. But UKI still has concerns about  the claim, given the earlier  information  
received from the airline and because Mr P didnt tell it hed received a refund of the parking  
costs. It asked Mr P for the original documents and confirmation of the refunds as these 
have been confirmed to UKI over the phone.  The airline had told UKI that it had sent the 
breakdown to Mr P in October 2018, so I dont think this is an unreasonable  request. 
Overall, I think UKI dealt fairly with the claim.  It asked for additional information  to check  that 
Mr P had not received the same refund twice. It asked for the breakdown  of the refunds,  
because the amounts the airline  said it had paid Mr P seemed similar or the same as the 
ones that Mr P was claiming. I think UKI reasonably  raised these  points and Mr P has since 
confirmed that he did, in fact, receive his parking costs back. So I dont think I can fairly say 
that UKI must pay Mr Ps claim without a breakdown of the amounts that the airline paid to 
him. The breakdown  should include the £89 parking costs which  dont appear on the list of 
airline related  expenses  shown in the July 2018 email from the airline. 
I think there were some delays  on UKIs part in dealing with the claim and for not returning 
Mr Ps calls.  It said sorry for this and it also offered to pay the cost of any call to UKI where 
hed been kept on hold,  subject to evidence. I think that was a reasonable response to his 
concerns. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5006030