K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that he didnt agree to or sign a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor  
Finance Ltd for a used  car. He says the interest  rate was later inflated and the part exchange 
value for his original  car altered without his agreement.  Mr D also says the car was in a poor 
condition and didnt  match the description  given to him by the dealership.
background
In August  2018  Mr D attended a dealership as he wanted to downsize his current  vehicle.  Mr 
D says he attended  with a friend though the dealership says he was alone.  At the dealership  
Mr D identified a used  car he was interested in and a part exchange value was given for his 
current car. A handwritten sales invoice was drawn up setting out that the dealership  would 
give a part-exchange allowance of £2,900 for Mr Ds current  car against the £7,795 cost of 
the car Mr D wished to purchase.
Mr D says that as the car had a flat battery  it had to be charged up before he could take it for 
a test drive. He says he was told by the salesperson that the car came with Sat Nav installed 
and run flat tyres and that the interest  rate for the hire purchase  agreement was 5%. Mr D 
also says he wasnt able to inspect the car properly as it was parked in a dark area of the 
dealership
Mr D says that he provided his debit  card for a credit check to be undertaken but that the 
dealership used this card to create  an electronic signature on the hire purchase agreement. 
He says he didnt  see the terms and conditions  of the agreement nor did he sign a copy and 
that the hire purchase agreement was created without any consultation with him.
Mr D says he was told by the dealership that the hire purchase agreement  had been  
prepared and so he took the car. He asked for a paper copy of the agreement  but was told 
this would be sent to him in the next 14 days.
Mr D says when he took the car he discovered it had defective tyres and no installed Sat 
Nav. The car also required a new battery. Mr D complained about the condition of the car to 
the dealership.  Mr D says the dealership agreed to reimburse the cost of new tyres and a 
new battery.  He also says he was offered £200 as compensation  for there being no installed 
Sat Nav system.
Mr D received a copy of the hire purchase  agreement  and was concerned that it showed  an 
interest rate of over 14%. The agreement also said that the part-exchange allowance was 
£2,500 and the total cash price paid for the car was £8,290. He complained to Blue Motor.
Blue Motor  said that the part-exchange allowance had been reduced as after inspection of 
Mr Ds car it had become  clear that it had some damage that had required repair  and that 
this had been agreed with Mr D. It said the total cash price  included the cost of a warranty  
but the cars  actual cost had been reduced  by £400 to match the reduction in the part-
exchange value.
Blue Motor  didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that Mr D had accepted  when talking with 
it that he had given the dealership his bank card to authorise the electronic signature  to the 
hire purchase agreement.  It also said he had left the dealership  without questioning the 
finance agreement  and was aware  of the monthly  cost. Blue Motor said there was a lack of 
evidence to show any fraud had been  committed.
Ref: DRN55723802Mr D disagreed with Blue Motors decision and complained to this service. He said he 
believed the hire purchase  agreement had been  created  without his agreement or signature; 
that the APR had been increased from the figure hed been told by the salesman;  that hed 
been told he would receive £200 to address the lack of Sat Nav; that the car should have 
come with a spare tyre and alloy and that hed been wrongly charged for the warranty  as 
hed been told this was free.
Our adjudicator said that looking at the evidence she couldnt say that Mr D had been 
unaware an agreement  was in place when  he left the dealership. Hed asked about  the 
paperwork and had been told it would be sent to him shortly  before he left the dealership 
taking the car. He was also aware of the monthly  cost of the agreement.
Our adjudicator said e-signatures, as appeared on this hire purchase  agreement, werent 
unusual. Wet ink signatures werent  required  to make the hire purchase agreement binding.
Mr D had provided a tape recording of a conversation  with the dealership in which it was 
confirmed the e-signature had been used to obtain  Mr Ds signature.  Our adjudicator said 
this recording didnt  change her view that Mr D knew there was an agreement in place.
Our adjudicator said the agreement set out the amount  of interest  being  applied to the hire 
purchase agreement.  She said that the agreement requested that the signatory ticked a 
yes box confirming they had understood the terms and conditions before adding  their 
electronic signature. Mr D had said he was aware of the monthly cost of the agreement  and 
so our adjudicator  thought it was likely this information had been made available  to Mr D.
Mr D had provided a handwritten note stating £200 to compensate Sat-Nav. This note also 
contained Mr Ds bank  details but it didnt set out who had provided  it and it wasnt  an official  
receipt. Our adjudicator said she couldnt accept  this as evidence  this payment was agreed 
with the dealership.
Mr D provided  photos of the car to show that it had been in a poor condition. Our adjudicator 
said she wasnt able to see any damage on the car nor did she know  when the photos had 
been taken. She said she wasnt  able to accept the photos as proof the car had been  in a 
poor state.
Our adjudicator said she considered the issue with the tyres had been rectified as they had 
been replaced and Mr D had confirmed this with Blue Motors.  She said that there  wasnt  any 
evidence to suggest that the provision of a spare  tyre and alloy had been  agreed by the 
dealership either prior to or after the agreement  was entered in to.
Mr D provided  photos that the car hed part-exchanged had been advertised for sale at a 
price significantly  higher than the allowance given by the dealership.  Our adjudicator said the 
allowance had been agreed with Mr D and it was a matter for the dealership  what it then 
decided to do with the car.
Our adjudicator said that Mr D said that he had been  told that the warranty  was free of 
charge. The warranty  document  provided by Blue Motor had shown the cost as £0. Blue 
Motor said that the warranty had been listed as premium which  meant there was a cost and 
that this had been added to the finance agreement. Our adjudicator  said looking at the hire 
purchase agreement  the warranty hadnt been  listed as a separate item so there  wasnt  any 
evidence Mr D had been told there  was a cost for this item. She said it would be fair for the 
Ref: DRN55723803cost of this item to be removed from the hire purchase agreement  and the applied  interest  
and monthly payments to be adjusted.
Mr D had also said when he had complained to the dealership hed felt intimidated  and felt 
he wasnt treated fairly or with respect.  Our adjudicator said that as this was something that 
had happened  after the hire purchase agreement had been  entered into it wasnt  something 
she could look into though she appreciated Mr Ds concerns.
Mr D disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  He said that he hadnt seen any of the terms 
and conditions of the hire purchase agreement as the computer screen was facing away 
from him and he hadnt been aware that the documentation was being prepared.  He says it 
was the salesman who had ticked the yes box on the agreement that the terms were  
understood and agreed to.
Mr D said the dealership had simply put the car in his name  and dumped  it on a red route  on 
the day of the purchase. It had also told him it would rectify the issue  of the spare wheel and 
Sat Nav though later hed been forced to accept the offer of £200 towards the Sat Nav. Mr D 
says the £200 had never been paid. Mr D also provided  a statement from the friend  who had 
accompanied him to the dealership on the day hed acquired the car.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me.
findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that in August 2018  Mr D attended the dealership  to look at cars as he wanted to 
change vehicles. The dealership says Mr D looked  at several cars that day before choosing  
this particular car.
Mr D and his friend  say that Mr D had handed over his bank card for a credit  check  to be 
undertaken. Mr D says without his knowledge or agreement  a hire purchase  agreement was 
set up and his electronic  signature added. He says this was fraud.
Mr D has provided a tape recording of a later meeting with the dealership when  another  
friend asked  how Mr Ds signature had been added to the agreement and the dealership  
said the signature was obtained from his credit card. Mr D says that cant be correct as his 
card had no signature on it. 
E-signatures arent unusual on documents and contracts. They are treated the same as wet 
ink signatures.  Here  I think  the bank card was used as proof of identity so I dont  think  the 
lack of a wet ink signature on the card itself is evidence that a fraud  had been perpetrated by 
the dealership.  
Ive seen that Mr D says he was unaware an agreement had been created but I dont think 
the evidence Ive seen supports that. Mr D left the dealership with the car leaving his other 
car behind  as a part exchange,  he was aware  of the monthly costs of the agreement and 
there appears to have  been a discussion with the dealership about an interest rate, the Sat 
Nav, tyres and spare tyre. 
Ref: DRN55723804I dont think its likely  that if Mr D hadnt agreed  to take the car under a hire purchase 
agreement he would  have  left the dealership with it. I appreciate  Mr D says it was left on a 
red route and in his name but I cant see he has raised that point  before.  His friend  doesnt  
support that Mr D was compelled to take the car.
So I dont  think I can reasonably say that Mr D didnt  know  a finance agreement had been 
created. Mr D and his friend say that they never saw the terms and conditions  but the terms 
appeared to have been discussed. For instance both the length of the agreement and the 
monthly cost were known  by Mr D.
I dont know exactly what was said between  Mr D and the dealership. Mr D says he was told 
the APR was 5% but when he received the documentation he learnt  it was over 14%. 
Looking at the agreement Ive seen  that it says that the interest  rate of 7.74% per annum is 
applied to the Amount of Credit and that the APR is 14.59%  so I think its possible figures 
were discussed but may have been  misunderstood.  However, I think its reasonable to say 
Mr D was happy with the cost of the agreement  as hed both chosen  the car and then taken 
it.
So I dont  think I have  enough evidence to say that the hire purchase agreement was 
fraudulently created by the dealership.
Mr D says that the figures in the agreement  were wrong and that the part exchange  value for 
his original car didnt  match that contained  in the written sales  invoice. Ive seen that the 
dealership has explained that the sales invoice was a provisional  price  for the part 
exchange as the car needed to be inspected.  The dealership then later gave it a lower 
valuation. It says Mr D was unhappy  at the reduction and so it lowered the price of the other 
car by a similar amount.  As the amount  of credit borrowed for the car remained the same  I 
dont think I can reasonably say this was unfair.
Mr D says that he was given too a low price  for his car as part exchange looking at its 
current advertised sales price. But I dont think I can reasonably say Mr D didnt have  a 
choice about using his car as part exchange.  He could  have  declined  to do so if unhappy at 
the value and by proceeding to do so I think shows its more  likely than not that at the time 
he was content  with the value given by the dealership. And although the value was later 
reduced this didnt cause him any financial detriment as the amount of credit required to buy 
the other car remained  the same.
Mr D says he was told the car had factory  installed  Sat Nav but this was untrue and that 
when he checked  the cost of adding this system it was substantial. He says the dealership  
offered him £200 compensation to address this but never then paid that sum. Mr D has 
provided a handwritten note that says £200  to compensate Sat Nav which  has a signature  
on it but no name but I dont know who has signed it and the paper isnt headed. So I dont 
think I can reasonably attach any weight to this evidence as I dont know who prepared  it. 
I appreciate Mr D says there  was a conversation with the dealership  about  the Sat Nav and 
this is also repeated by his friend.  But I dont know what  exactly was said and the dealership 
says the car wasnt advertised as having  Sat Nav and Ive seen no evidence  to contradict 
that. I dont  think when looking at the evidence that I have enough to say that the dealership 
confirmed the car came  with Sat Nav at the point of sale or agreed  to pay compensation 
later.
Ref: DRN55723805Mr D raised the condition of the tyres  shortly  after taking  the car. He says the dealership said 
the car came with flat run tyres and that was why there was no spare. There  then appears to 
have been some discussion about the lack of spare tyre. Ive seen that the tyres were 
changed but no spare provided. Again I dont have enough evidence to say that the car was 
advertised as coming with a spare.  Taking  into account that it was a used car then items 
such as spare tyres dont  always come as standard. And I dont think I have enough 
evidence to say that there was an agreement for the dealership  to provide a spare tyre and 
alloy for the car.
Mr D says he was told the warranty was free and Ive seen that a free warranty  was 
available but that a premium  warranty  was added to the hire purchase agreement. This 
particular product wasnt free. Ive also seen that Blue Motor  said this wasnt standard and 
usually these products  were purchased  outside of the hire purchase  agreement rather  than 
added.
Looking at the warranty terms and conditions this shows a price of £0 and I cant  see a 
separate entry for the warranty on the hire purchase agreement  itself. Looking at this 
evidence I think Mr D believed he had a free warranty and I cant reasonably say he was told 
and agreed to the cost of this additional product. I think its fair for Mr Ds hire purchase 
agreement to be reduced by £895 and the interest  applied to this agreement adjusted so 
that any interest already paid for this item is credited back  and payments are amended  going 
forward.
So for the reasons given above  Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint in that I think he 
wasnt informed about the cost of the warranty that was added  to the hire purchase  
agreement. 
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. I am asking Blue Motor  Finance 
Ltd to remove the cost of the warranty from Mr Ds hire purchase  agreement and adjust the 
interest applied  to this agreement  so that any interest already paid for this item is credited 
back and future payments  are amended.
But Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint  that the hire purchase agreement was fraudulently  
set up and signed by the dealership and that he was unaware of its terms and conditions. I 
also dont think that the interest rate was later inflated without  his knowledge or that the 
dealership had agreed to pay compensation for the missing Sat Nav and supply a spare tyre 
and alloy.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5572380