K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) failed to cancel his home 
emergency insurance policy before its renewal date when he instructed it in writing to do so.
background
Mr R had a home emergency insurance policy with BGI which covered his central heating 
boiler and system. In September  2018 BGI wrote to Mr and Mrs R saying that the policy 
would run out on 24 September 2018.  From BGIs records it seems  it also sent a similar 
email to Mr and Mrs R. In view of what BGI said later,  I note that the email was sent to their 
correct email address.
BGI said the renewal premium would be increased  from a yearly figure of £164.88 to 
£205.06. As Mr R paid by direct debit, the policy would automatically renew unless they told 
BGI they didnt want to renew.
On 10 October 2018, Mr and Mrs R emailed BGI. They pointed out that the new premium 
represented a 24% increase from the old figure.  They  said they wouldnt be renewing  the 
policy. They  gave BGI formal notice not to take any more direct debit payments from their 
bank account.
BGI didnt  carry out Mr Rs instructions to cancel. It treated his email  as a complaint about  
pricing. A representative  of BGI emailed Mr R, again at his correct email address, inviting   
Mr R to contact  BGIs Customer Care team and discuss the price in detail. If he was still 
unhappy with their amended offer, he could cancel the policy  at that point.
On 5 December  2018 Mr R phoned  BGI and again  made it clear  that the agreement  and 
direct debit payments  should have been  cancelled from October 2018 as he had instructed. 
He complained that, notwithstanding this, BGI had taken payments from his bank account by 
direct debit. He said BGI should return these and pay him compensation for its poor service.
On 21 January 2019, one of BGIs customer managers tried to send an email  to Mr R asking 
him to contact BGI to discuss his complaint. Unfortunately,  he made a mistake in the email 
address so the email wasnt sent. He sent a letter the same day, and another on 4 February 
2019, asking Mr R to make contact. However Mr R was overseas at the time.
Following further complaint by Mr R on 9 February  2019, BGI wrote to him on 11 February  
2019 saying it would  refund the three direct debit payments it had taken. But it didnt offer 
any further compensation. Mr R wasnt satisfied with this and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that in his initial  
email of 10 October 2018, Mr R instructed British  Gas to take his email as formal notice not 
to take any more direct debits. Notwithstanding  this, the first payment due on 3 November 
2018, and two further direct debit payments, were taken from Mr Rs bank account.
Mr R phoned BGI on 5 December 2018  and explained again  that the policy and payment  
instructions should  have  been cancelled. The investigator thought  BGI should  have acted 
immediately to cancel  the policy. BGI tried to send  an email to Mr R on 21 January 2019, but 
misspelt his email address. So it wasnt sent.
Ref: DRN55400782The investigator thought the service BGI had provided to Mr R was poor. As well as the 
premium payments it had refunded, the investigator recommended  that BGI pay Mr R 
compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Mr R accepted the investigators recommendation. However BGI responded to say, in 
summary, that:
its initial response to Mr R on 10 October  2018  was an invitation to get in touch to 
see if BGI could help him on the price  of the policy;
following Mr Rs phone call on 5 December 2018  it had sent him an email. It didnt 
accept it was its fault this wasnt  delivered. It said it had used the contact details Mr R 
had provided;
Mr R didnt respond to its letters of 22 January 2019 and 4 February 2019; and
it thought Mr R could  have done  more  to get in touch with it, and could also have 
instructed his bank  to cancel the direct  debit which would have prevented  the 
payments being made.
The investigator said his view remained unchanged. BGIs  first letter to Mr R seemed aimed 
at customer retention.  He didnt think it was reasonable  to delay cancellation while  it tried to 
do this. He thought Mr R had made his position  clear that he didnt want BGI to take any 
more direct debit payments or renew.
He didnt think it was reasonable to put responsibility  on Mr R to tell his bank not to make 
payments when he had given  BGI clear instructions not to take any more  payments.
BGI didnt  agree  with the investigators view. So this complaint has been  passed to me to 
issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R received the renewal invitation from BGI he gave a clear response  in good time 
that he wouldnt be renewing the policy, and that BGI shouldnt take any more direct debit 
payments from his bank  account. While BGI was entitled to approach  him and try to 
persuade him to change his mind, this shouldnt have got in the way of fulfilling  his clear 
instruction.
Mr R again made clear to BGI in his phone call of 5 December 2018  that the policy should 
be cancelled  and that the payments wrongly taken from his account  by direct debit should be 
returned. But it took BGI until 11 February  2019  to confirm it would do this.
I think the reason  BGIs email of 21 January  2019 was undelivered was that BGI made  a 
mistake in inputting Mr Rs email address, not that he hadnt updated this with BGI. In spite 
of being notified that it couldnt be delivered,  it appears no one at BGI thought  to check the 
email address. If they had compared  the address with that on the last email Mr R sent BGI, 
the mistake would have  been obvious.
This mistake became more critical because Mr R was then abroad, and so wasnt  able to 
respond to the two letters BGI sent him.
Ref: DRN55400783Like the investigator, I dont think its reasonable for BGI to put responsibility for the 
payments being  made on to Mr R because he didnt tell his bank to stop them, when he had 
given clear instructions  to BGI to take no further payments.
For the reasons  Ive set out, I think  BGIs customer service to Mr R was poor. I think its right 
that BGI pay him compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience  this caused him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr R compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5540078