K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited wont  pay his pet 
insurance policy claim and about the exclusion it added to his policy. My references to 
Red Sands  include  its agents.
background
In January 2018 Mr P bought lifetime pet insurance  with Red Sands for his dog on-line after 
his free insurance  with another insurer ended. In April 2018 the dog was treated for sickness  
and diarrhoea and Mr P claimed  for the treatment.
Red Sands  initially  declined the claim as the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions.  
Red Sands  said the dogs  vet notes showed  hed been seen by a vet for diarrhoea in 
November and December  2017, before the policy was taken out.
Red Sands  then said it had now added a specific exclusion to the policy  that excluded  cover 
for all claims with respect to the digestive  system,  with effect from the start of the policy. It 
relied on that exclusion to decline  the claim.
Mr P complained to us. He said his vet took the dogs stool  samples  on both bouts of 
diarrhoea which confirmed the causes for the two bouts were different. He wants Red Sands  
to pay the claim and, as hed already  paid the vets bills, compensation of 10% of the costs 
hed paid. He also thought  the exclusion for all claims  with respect  to the digestive system 
was too broad.
Our investigator thought Red Sands hadnt acted fairly in declining  the claim.  She spoke to 
the treating vet who said the causes of the diarrhoea before and after the start of the policy  
were likely to be not related. She didnt think Red Sands could fairly add the specific 
exclusion and said it should  reimburse  Mr P for the vet costs plus 8% interest.
Red Sands  disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision. It said it wasnt  suggesting  a 
link between  the two illnesses but it could  add the specific exclusion and rely on that. When 
taking out the policy  Mr P had been asked  to read and agree assumptions which said 
Red Sands  reserved the right to apply exclusions in respect of any illness  that was pre-
existing. The policy was clear pre-existing conditions werent covered. Also the policy 
schedule had various declaration questions.  As Mr P would have answered yes to one of the 
questions he should have phoned Red Sands and it would have added  the specific  
exclusion.
Mr P added that he thinks Red Sands should write much clearer  letters  to explain a decline 
of a claim and the policy should define  clinical signs.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint and 
say Red Sands should pay the claim subject to the remaining  policy terms and interest as 
detailed below. In addition it should  remove the exclusion it added retrospectively. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands can fairly  and reasonably  rely on the pre-existing 
medical condition  and/or rely on the specific exclusion it added  retrospectively to decline the 
claim. I dont  think it can and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN56825642can Red Sands fairly rely on the pre-existing  condition exclusion?
In Red Sands response to our investigators view it seems  to have accepted  that the causes 
of the dogs diarrhoea werent linked. But Ive considered the matter  for the avoidance  of 
doubt as it was the exclusion Red Sands initially relied on.
The policy is clear theres no cover for:
Any pre-existing  condition or claim for costs relating to an injury  or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date.
The stool  report when the dog first had diarrhoea  in 2017 showed giardia wasnt  present. 
The 2018  stool  report showed giardia was present. That suggests the two instances  of 
diarrhoea werent  related.  Importantly, the treating vet told our investigator that its more 
likely (the two instances of diarrhoea) are not related.
Im satisfied that the evidence from the treating vet shows the dogs diarrhoea before the 
policy wasnt linked to his diarrhoea after the policy was taken out. Red Sands  cant 
reasonably say the dogs 2018 diarrhoea was a pre-existing condition.  Also it cant 
reasonably say the diarrhoea was the same clinical sign of illness where  theres no 
evidence of a link between the two bouts  of diarrhoea.
Red Sands  cant fairly and reasonably  use the pre-existing condition/same clinical sign 
exclusion to decline the claim.
can Red Sands fairly add and rely on the exclusion for all claims with respect to the digestive 
system?
Red Sands  is now focusing  on the specific exclusion its added  retrospectively to decline the 
claim. It says if Mr P had told it about his dog seeing  the vet for diarrhoea when he bought  
the policy it would have added a specific exclusion for claims to the digestive system. Now 
its seen the dogs vet notes its added  that exclusion with effect from the date Mr P bought 
the policy. Ive seen Red Sands underwriting guidance that says if it knows  a dog had 
diarrhoea it would add that exclusion.
However, I dont think its fair to add and apply that specific exclusion.
Red Sands  didnt ask Mr P about pre-existing conditions when he bought  the policy. If it had, 
and Mr P misrepresented the answers,  it might be fair to apply exclusions retrospectively  if 
thats what it would have done,  had it known the true position.  The law allows this in some 
circumstances where  theres  been  a relevant misrepresentation. But as Red Sands  hasnt  
shown me it asked Mr P the relevant questions there isnt an issue of misrepresentation.
One of the assumptions in the sales process  is that Red Sands reserves the right to apply an 
exclusion in respect  of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-existing at 
the start of the policy. The relevant condition was diarrhoea but Mr P wasnt asked about  his 
dogs conditions. Red Sands imposed an exclusion that was very broad in scope. I dont 
think that was fair or reasonable.
Ref: DRN56825643The way the presumption is worded would allow Red Sands to impose  any exclusion 
whether it relates  to the specific  condition or not, effectively  allowing Red Sands complete 
discretion to exclude anything. I appreciate Mr P accepted the assumption which says 
Red Sands  can do this. But I dont think its fair to allow Red Sands to rely on this when its 
given no evidence that it asked him to declare his dogs medical history when he took out the 
policy.
Red Sands  has now referred  to the declaration questions that are on Mr Ps policy  
schedule. It said Mr P should have called it as he couldnt answer yes to the question  have 
you ever taken (your dog) to the vet for anything other than routine  vaccinations.
However, from the information  I have the policy schedule was sent to Mr P after he bought  
the policy. He was only asked those declaration questions after the policy  was sold and he 
reasonably understood he had the policy and was covered. I dont  think Red Sands  can fairly 
rely on declaration  questions asked after the policy has been sold to say Mr P failed to 
disclose his dogs  diarrhoea and use that to add a broad  exclusion and apply retrospectively.
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusion on all claims with respect  to the digestive  
system with effect from the start of the policy. It cant rely on the exclusion to decline the 
claim.
Red Sands  must pay Mr Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  As Mr P has already paid the vet it must add 
interest as Ive detailed  below.
other matters
I note Mr Ps comments about the clarity  of Red Sands decline of claim letters  and the lack 
of definition of clinical signs  in its policy. But its not my role to tell a business to change  its 
processes or that it must change its policy wording.
Mr P also asked for 10% interest on the costs hes paid. Where applicable we generally  
award 8% interest rate (which is also the rate generally used by the courts). Our website 
explains the reasons  for that figure and 8% is the interest rate I will award to Mr P.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P said he had no comments to add. Red Sands didnt respond  by the response date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr P had no substantive comments on and Red Sands didnt  respond  to my provisional 
decision Ive no reason to change  my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
findings I uphold  this complaint.
Red Sands  must pay Mr Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  As Mr P has already paid the vet it must add 
interest as Ive detailed  below.
Ref: DRN56825644my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Mr Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any 
excess and co-payments plus interest* at 8% a year simple  from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  
from the start of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5682564