K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) compensation to  reduce a debt from which she 
was discharged when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued a provisional  decision on 27 June  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background  to this complaint. It explains why I 
think its fair for RBS to use Mrs Ys PPI compensation to reduce monies owed  and 
left unpaid when her trust deed  came to an end.
RBS has confirmed that its received  my provisional  decision. It says it has nothing to 
add.
Mrs Y has also confirmed that shes  received my provisional decision.  Ive 
summarised and addressed her points below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to my provisional  decision,  Mrs Y says:
Its unfair for RBS to rely on the settlement form she signed to say that  she 
agreed it could  use her PPI compensation to reduce any unpaid  debt  she  
says she didnt  understand what  she was signing at the time.
When she granted her trust deed, she didnt  know shed  had PPI. When she  
realised, in October  2013, she complained to RBS and  notified her  trustee. 
She was discharged in December 2013,  after shed already complained  to 
RBS.
As her largest creditor, she thinks  RBS received a dividend  some money  
from her trustee  before her trust deed came to an end. And she says it 
accepted this dividend in full and final settlement of her  debt.
I can address the first two points briefly.
RBS tried to rely on the settlement form Mrs Y signed to say shed  agreed  that it 
could keep her PPI compensation. But, for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, I didnt  think this was fair  so it had no impact on the outcome of this 
complaint.
And in my provisional  decision, I explained that Mrs Y had complained about  PPI 
before her trust deed came to an end.
Ref: DRN59268632In this particular  case, I dont think  it makes  a difference whether  she knew  about, or 
complained about, PPI before or after her trust deed came  to an end. RBS would 
have been able to use her PPI compensation to reduce the amount  she owed before 
her trust deed came to an end. And for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think its fair for it to do so afterwards too. But, for the avoidance of doubt,  
Id like to make it clear  that I think  Mrs Y has consistently acted in good  faith towards 
both her trustee and RBS.
Finally, Mrs Y says RBS is wrong  when  it says it didnt  receive  any money from her 
trustee.
RBS has sent me screenshots of its internal records and these appear to  show that  it 
didnt receive  any money from Mrs Ys former trustee.
We asked Mrs Y and her former trustee if either  had any  evidence to show that  RBS 
received a dividend. Unfortunately, Mrs Y doesnt have anything but her former 
trustee emailed us on 7 August  2019  to say that a dividend of 17.2p  for every £1  
owed was paid prior to his discharge  in December 2013.
Ive no reason to doubt that a dividend was paid. But Ive seen similar complaints 
involving RBS and, in those cases,  a dividend was paid but RBS didnt receive any 
money: apparently,  it was asked to send the trustee some information  and it didnt. If 
the same thing happened in this case, it would explain why there  appears to be a 
discrepancy between  the former trustees testimony and the business records.
I emailed  Mrs Ys former trustee on 9 August  2019 and  16 August 2019 in  an attempt 
to determine whether  or not RBS received  any money. Unfortunately, he hasnt 
replied. When I emailed  him on 16 August  2019, I explained that  if I didnt hear from 
him by 30 August 2019, Id have  to make my decision based on the information I 
have.
A factual finding on this point should  be relatively straightforward, and Im sorry  that I 
cant do more  than make a finding  on the balance of  probabilities. But, based  on the 
information Ive seen, I dont think I can safely  say that  RBS received a dividend.
In conclusion, Ive carefully considered what Mrs Y has said in reply to my 
provisional decision but my opinion  remains  the same.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above  and in my provisional decision, I think its fair 
for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to use Mrs Ys PPI compensation to reduce the 
monies owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2019.
Ref: DRN59268633Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59268634my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs Y doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which she was discharged  when her protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mrs Y has had a number  of loans with RBS.
Below, Ive included some  basic  information  about the loans that are relevant to this complaint:
Loan  ending  1976 (Loan 1): 24 December 2002-15  January 2004
Loan  ending  0489 (Loan 2): 14 January 2004-25  November 2004
Loan  ending  9893 (Loan 3): 25 November 2004-6 August 2007
Loan  ending  3984 (Loan 4): 6 August  2007-
Loan 2 refinanced Loan  1, Loan 3 refinanced Loan 2 and Loan 4 refinanced  Loan 3.
With Loans  2, 3 and 4, RBS sold Mrs Y a PPI policy.
In October 2013, Mrs Y contacted RBS to complain  that it had mis-sold her PPI.
On 25 November  2013,  RBS wrote to Mrs Y. It said it had checked its records and couldnt  find any 
evidence that shed had PPI with Loan 1.
And on 12 December 2013, RBS agreed that the PPI policies sold with Loans 2, 3 and 4 were mis-
sold. It offered to refund everything Mrs Y paid for these  policies and pay simple interest (at 8% per 
year) on the extra shed paid for PPI each month, from the date of each payment.
However, in July 2010, Mrs Y had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust deed   for 
her creditors.  A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally -binding  agreement between a consumer and her creditors,  which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer  transfers her property to the trustee,  who has the power to 
collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among the creditors according to their respective 
rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy  is, as an asset,  usually 
vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit  of the creditors. A trust deed will invariably 
include provisions relating to the discharge  of the consumer from her debts, the restoration to her of 
any surplus, and the discharge of the trustee.
Complicating matters  in this case,  Mrs Y was discharged from her trust deed on 10 December  2013  
after shed complained  about  the sale of the PPI policies  but two days before RBS upheld  her 
complaint and offered her compensation. I will consider the implications of this below.
The reason why this complaint has been referred to our service is because  RBS wants to use the PPI 
compensation in partial payment of a debt from which Mrs Y was discharged on 10 December 2013.  
Mrs Y doesnt  think this is fair.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
Ref: DRN59268635(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry  practice at 
the relevant  time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Can I look into this complaint?
RBS says I cant consider this complaint. It says it is out of jurisdiction because  Mrs Ys trustee 
accepted its offers  which it made as a gesture of goodwill and without an admission of liability   in 
full and final settlement of her complaint.  It says the trustee accepted its offer for the policy sold with 
Loan 4 in December  2013 and its offers  for the policies sold with Loans 2 and 3 in March  2014. It has 
sent us a copy of an un-dated settlement form for the policy sold with Loan 2, which says:
I wish to accept the Banks net offerin full and final settlement of all or any claims which I might 
have against [RBS]  or any subsidiary companies in respect  of my [RBS]  [PPI] policies for [Loan  2]
[]
If I am subject  to an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement  (IVA), Protect Trust Deed, Bankruptcy  or 
Sequestration, any payment  will be made to the relevant account I hold with you. Any 
disbursements due under  the terms of the arrangements  will then be managed by the Groups  
Insolvency Team.
I understand that the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my account
The form has been signed by Mrs Ys trustee.  RBS says it no longer has the forms the trustee  signed 
to accept the other  two offers.
Confusingly, RBS also asked Mrs Y to sign and return a settlement form for each offer, which  she did. 
It has sent us a copy of the forms she completed for the policies sold with Loans 3 and 4. Apart from 
the offer amount and the loan number, the forms are identical to the form signed by the trustee. Mrs Y 
signed the forms on 18 December 2013 and added a handwritten note:
I no longer have a current account with RBS. Please pay via cheque  or through  [bank name, 
account details].
First, and for the avoidance  of doubt, this complaint is not out of jurisdiction.
We were set up by parliament  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended). And 
DISP 2 of the FCA Handbook  which is subordinate legislation made under the 2000 Act  explains 
when we can and cannot consider a complaint. There is no rule that says we, as a service, or I, as an 
ombudsman, cannot consider a complaint if the consumer (or, in this case, someone else) has 
accepted an offer.
However, I can dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  if I think there are compelling 
reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service (DISP 3.3.4 R). As our service  is here to resolve complaints that consumers  and businesses 
cant resolve themselves, it may not be appropriate for us to get involved if the consumer has already 
accepted an offer. But it will depend on the individual circumstances of each complaint. And even if I 
Ref: DRN59268636assume RBS means  to say I should exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint in accordance  
with DISP 3.3.4 R, I dont  think it would be appropriate to do so in this case. Ill explain why.
The UK Supreme  Court  has recently clarified  the effect of a trust deeds termination on the final 
distribution of the estate.
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC  54, the court  unanimously held that 
a consumer, and not the trustee, was entitled to his PPI compensation because  his standard  form 
trust deed was terminated  on the final distribution of the estate before he complained  that the PPI 
policies had been mis-sold.  If the trustee isnt entitled  to an asset discovered after the trust deed has 
come to an end, it must  follow that he cant accept or reject an offer pertaining to that asset.
I accept that, in this case, Mrs Y appears to have complained to RBS before her trust deed was 
terminated. But I dont think that makes a material  difference for two reasons. First,  on termination, 
the consumer is entitled  to be reinvested  or to have returned  any remaining trust assets, which in 
this case,  would include any unresolved PPI complaints. Second, on 7 July 2014,  Mrs Ys trustee 
confirmed in writing that he has no interest in this complaint, and that any PPI compensation due 
should go to [Mrs Y]. Quite why he signed  at least one settlement form if he has no interest in the 
complaint isnt clear. But its worth noting that he hasnt said his decision to terminate the trust deed 
was a mistake,  made in ignorance of this complaint,  or that he intends to take any action to have it set 
aside. Im therefore satisfied that, in this case,  it was for Mrs Y, and Mrs Y alone, to accept any offer.
I have therefore considered  whether or not I should  dismiss this complaint, or part of it, because  
Mrs Y signed and returned at least two settlement forms.
Read in context, I dont think the settlement forms made it clear that RBS planned  to keep Mrs Ys 
compensation.
In my opinion,  the words  If I am subject to[a]  Protected Trust Deed, instead of, If I have been, 
indicates that what  comes next doesnt apply to consumers like Mrs Y, whose trust deeds have come 
to an end.
Likewise  and I think this is clear from Mrs Ys handwritten note  for consumers who have been 
discharged from their debts on termination  of a trust deed, I dont think its unreasonable  for them to 
assume they dont have  an account or arrears with RBS.
In these circumstances, I think  it would  be very unfair to conclude that a consumer in Mrs Ys position 
would or should have  realised  what RBS wanted to do. So Im not going to dismiss  this complaint 
without considering its merits.
Finally, RBS told us it made  its offers  as a gesture  of goodwill  and without an admission of liability.  
But it didnt. When it wrote  to Mrs Y on 12 December  2013, it simply  said:  
...the Bank is prepared to uphold your complaint  and offer you the following redress.
As it has upheld her complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold, I dont need to decide whether or 
not they were. Instead, I need to decide whether or not:
RBS has offered Mrs Y fair compensation;
its fair for RBS to use Mrs Ys PPI compensation in partial payment of a debt from which  she 
was discharged in December 2013.
Has RBS offered Mrs Y fair compensation?
Loan 2
Ref: DRN59268637In January 2004, Mrs Y borrowed £9,000 from RBS. She borrowed an extra  £2,139 to pay for PPI up 
front. This type of policy is called a single premium PPI policy. And Mrs Y had to pay interest on the 
extra she borrowed.
If the loan had run to term, Mrs Y would have paid about £460 in interest on the extra she borrowed to 
pay for PPI. So in total, she would have paid about £2,600 for PPI  which  is just over £43 per month.
The loan term was supposed to be five years but Mrs Y refinanced the loan with Loan 3 in 
November 2004. She cancelled the PPI policy  at the same time and RBS reduced her loan balance  
by £1,672   this was a partial refund of the upfront cost of the PPI policy  and an interest adjustment  to 
reflect the actual term.
So in total, the policy cost about £930. Mrs Y paid just over £430 before she refinanced the loan. The 
rest, about £500, was carried over into Loan 3  and, as a result, Mrs Y had to pay about  £8.50  more  
per month.  And when she refinanced Loan 3 with Loan 4, the balance was carried over into Loan 4. 
Ill explain how RBS has taken this into account below.
DISP App 3 of the FCA Handbook  tells businesses  how to put things  right if they mis-sold  PPI.
The rules say a business should refund everything the consumer paid for PPI plus simple interest on 
that amount (DISP App 3.7.3 E). In this context, simple interest is a non-compound rate of 8% per 
annum (DISP  App 3.1.5 G).
RBS has offered to refund  the £433.70 Mrs Y paid before  the loan was refinanced. And its offered to 
pay £346.36  in simple  interest (before tax)  which  appears to have  been calculated  in the way Id 
expect.
Loan 3
In November 2004, Mrs Y borrowed £23,000 from RBS. This time,  she borrowed an extra  £5,971 to 
pay for PPI up front.  As before, she had to pay interest on the extra she borrowed.
If the loan had run to term, Mrs Y would have paid about £1,400 in interest on the extra  she borrowed 
to pay for PPI. So in total, she would  have paid about £7,370  for PPI  which is just over £102 per 
month.
The loan term was supposed to be six years but Mrs Y refinanced the loan with Loan 4 in August 
2007. She cancelled the PPI policy at the same time and, like before, RBS reduced her loan balance 
by £2,078.
So in total, the policy cost about £5,290.  Mrs Y paid just over £3,270 before  she refinanced the loan. 
The rest, about £2,020, was carried over into Loan 4  and, as a result, Mrs Y had to pay about  £30 
more per month.
RBS has offered to refund  the £3,276.16 Mrs Y paid before the loan was refinanced,  with simple 
interest. Its also offered  to refund the extra £272.32 Mrs Y paid with Loan  3 because  of the unpaid  
PPI that was carried over from Loan 2. And, again, its added simple  interest in the way Id expect.
Loan 4
In August 2007, Mrs Y borrowed £17,000  from RBS  and borrowed an extra £4,463 to pay for PPI up 
front.
If the loan had run to term, Mrs Y would have paid about £1,124 in interest on the extra  she borrowed 
to pay for PPI. So in total, she would  have paid about £5,587  for PPI  which is about  £66 per month.
Ref: DRN59268638The loan term was supposed to be 7 years but Mrs Y granted her trust deed in July 2010. The policy 
was cancelled early and, like before, RBS reduced Mrs Ys loan balance by £1,646. 
So in total, the policy cost about £3,941.  Mrs Y paid £2,128 before she granted  her trust deed.  As a 
result of the trust deed, the balance (£1,813)  wasnt paid. Mrs Y also paid an extra £1,106 because of 
the unpaid cost of the previous policies that had rolled  over from Loans 2 and 3. But the balance of 
that unpaid PPI costs  from earlier loans (about  £1,800) wasnt paid either.
RBS has offered to refund  the £2,128.64 and the £1,106.91 Mrs Y paid before she granted  her trust 
deed. Its added simple interest as before. Its also offered to reduce the loan balance  for Loan 4 by 
just over £3,600. By doing  this, it effectively  removes the unpaid PPI from the amount  Mrs Y owed 
when her trust deed came to an end.
Ive explained the offers in some detail because I wanted to clarify  for Mrs Y what  she paid and when.
In total, Mrs Y paid about  £7,217 for PPI  and RBS has offered to refund this. Its also offered to pay 
just under £4,000 in simple interest and remove about £3,600 in unpaid PPI from the balance of 
Loan 4. Based on the information  Ive seen, I think RBS has offered Mrs Y fair compensation.
Is it fair for RBS to use Mrs Ys PPI compensation in partial payment of a debt from which she was 
discharged in December 2013?
Above, Ive explained that I must  take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law. 
Above, Ive explained that the Supreme Court has recently clarified the effect of a trust deeds 
termination on the final distribution of the estate.
And the Inner House of the Court of Session will shortly hear an appeal from the Sheriff Appeal Court 
in a case very similar to this complaint.
In Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1, the consumers protected trust deed 
came to an end in December  2013 when the trustee paid a final dividend. The business  was not paid 
in full  and said it was still owed more  than £20,000 after it had received the dividends  paid under  the 
trust deed. In early 2014, the business upheld  the consumers PPI complaint. But it used her 
compensation (about  £10,000) to reduce the unpaid debt.  (Specifically,  the business pleaded 
compensation or set-off, by application of the principle of balancing of accounts in bankruptcy.)
The court  relying on the decision of the Inner House  in Dooneen,  which was subsequently affirmed 
by the UK Supreme Court and which Ive mentioned  above   held that the business couldnt plead 
compensation or set-off of an extinguished  debt against the consumers claim. In other words, it said 
the business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end.
The business  has appealed this decision  to the Inner House.
I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, and 
on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same as those in this 
case, then RBS could not, in court,  successfully  plead set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of 
Mrs Ys complaint.
Ref: DRN59268639And I simply  do not think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mrs Y her PPI compensation  when  Mrs Y 
borrowed lots of money from RBS and now wont ever repay  it.
It may be helpful to provide  some context.
When Mrs Y granted her trust deed, the balance of Loan 4 was over £16,600  and she had other 
debts with RBS of about  £750.
I dont know if Mrs Y paid her trustee  any money as part of her trust deed  but RBS says it didnt 
receive any.
After deducting the unpaid PPI from the balance  of Loan  4, Mrs Y borrowed and did not repay  almost 
£13,000. And she owed RBS another £750 for other reasons. That she was discharged from this debt 
when her trust deed was terminated does not, in my opinion, make a difference  to whats fair.
Put simply, I think it would be manifestly unfair to tell RBS to pay back the extra  £7,217 Mrs Y paid for 
PPI (with  simple interest) when she doesnt  now have  to pay back  the £13,750 she borrowed.
Finally, Mrs Y says that even if she isnt entitled to the compensation, RBS shouldnt be allowed to 
keep it. Instead,  she says it should pay it to her trustee or the Accountant  in Bankruptcy so that it can 
be distributed among  all her creditors. Mrs Ys trustee was appointed to look after the interests of her 
creditors  and hes confirmed that he has no interest in this complaint. So I dont think  I need to 
consider this point further.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mrs 
Ys PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed  and left unpaid when  her trust deed came to an 
end.
So unless the comments and information I get by 27 July 2019  change my mind, I wont tell it to do 
anything.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5926863