K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about two credit cards that he took out with Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC. He says that Tesco decreased the interest  free period that they had originally  offered  
him without  telling him. They  also failed to tell him that interest  would be charged which led 
to him paying charges. 
He is not happy with the service that he received. 
background
Mr M holds  two credit cards with Tesco.  He applied online for the first one on 18 July 2017. 
The credit agreement shows Mr M had an interest  free period for balance  transfers for 
15 months and money transfers for 12 months.
Mr M made a balance transfer  of £1400 to this card. He also later made a money transfer  to 
the card. 
Mr M says that he received notice from the bank that his interest  free period was coming to 
an end. He thought that it was earlier than it shouldve been.  Mr M says he paid off the 
balance, so he wouldnt to incur any charges. 
Mr M had a second credit card with Tesco. He applied for this one online as well on 
2 February 2018.  Mr M says that, when he received the offer for this credit  card, he was 
approved for 30 months interest  free on balance transfers. 
Tesco say that Mr Ms agreement states that he would have interest free credit on 
purchases for 20 months,  on balance transfers  for three months and on money transfers for 
three months. 
Mr M says he was unaware of this. He says that he didnt  get notice that his interest free 
period for his second credit  card was coming  to an end so he was charged interest. He says 
that, even when he had a nil balance, he was charged interest.  
Mr M complained that the interest free period had come to an end earlier  than expected on 
both of his credit cards and that he had been  charged interest  on his second  credit card. 
Tesco wrote  their final response letter on 19 June 2018 and a further letter  on 
21 August 2018.  They  didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. They thought  that it had been made 
clear what  he had applied  for and what  his interest  free periods would be. They  also said 
that they had made a further offer on his first credit  card when it was approaching the end of 
the interest free period. His original offer wouldve remained unchanged. 
Mr M didnt  accept this decision so he came to us. 
After looking at all the evidence provided,  our adjudicator found that she couldnt uphold the 
complaint. In particular,  she said she had seen  the credit card agreements digitally signed  
by Mr M. They stated  what  the interest free periods  would be. She also found that Tesco  
had written to Mr M before the interest  free periods were ending  on both credit  cards,  so 
Mr M wouldve been aware that interest charges were to be applied.
Mr M said that he hadnt received the letter from Tesco  saying that his second  cards interest 
free period  was ending. He also argued  that he wouldnt have transferred £4,500  to this 
second card if it was only going to be for 3 months. 
The complaint has now come to me. 
Ref: DRN59128522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr M wont be happy with my decision. I cant  uphold this complaint because,  
from what I have seen  of the business  file, I cant say that Tesco  didnt make Mr M aware of 
when his interest free periods were ending. I will explain my decision. 
I have looked  at the credit card agreements for both credit cards.  These agreements were  
digitally signed  by Mr M. They do show that, for the first credit card, the interest  free period 
was 15 months for balance transfers and 12 months for money transfers. The second credit  
card agreements shows that the interest  free period was 20 months for purchases and three 
months for both balance  transfers and money  transfers. 
The first credit card
Mr M says that he received notice that the interest free period was ending  earlier  than he 
had thought. So he paid off his balance. Ive seen Tescos correspondence  offering  a further 
interest free period  on this credit card. I can see how this mightve been confusing but 
Mr Ms original  offer remained unchanged. I cant see how I can fault Tesco for this. 
Also, in June  2018, they wrote to Mr M to tell him that his original offer was coming  to an end 
in July 2018. So, from what I have seen, it seems  to me that Tesco did tell Mr M when the 
interest free period  was coming to an end.
I do appreciate that Mr M thought he needed to pay off the balance  to avoid charges. It is 
good that he suffered no financial loss because of this. But, although the second offer was 
confusing, it wouldve taken a phone call to Tesco to establish when the interest  free period 
was actually ending.  
The second  credit card
I understand why Mr M is frustrated about the interest free period coming to an end earlier 
than he expected on this credit  card.  I take his point that he wouldnt have transferred £4,500 
to this card if it was only for three  months.  I also take his point that he didnt make full use of 
the interest free period for purchases. But, I have seen the agreement digitally signed by 
Mr M and it clearly  states that the interest  free period for money transfers would end in three 
months. 
I do understand Mr Ms annoyance at not having  kept the paperwork. I also think  it wouldve 
been better if Mr M had downloaded a copy of the agreement as he had the option  to do this. 
Had I been presented  with an agreement from Mr M saying that the interest free period was 
for 30 months, I mightve made  a different decision.  But I only have  the agreement  from 
Tesco and this is the one I must accept. 
Mr M also says that he wasnt informed of his interest free period coming to an end. Im 
afraid I cant hold Tesco  responsible for this. Their  business file shows that a letter was sent 
to Mr M in April 2018 telling him that his interest  free period would end in May 2018.  Tesco  
cant be blamed for Mr M not getting  this letter. 
Ref: DRN59128523But I have also seen  the statements for Mr Ms second  credit  card.  The statement for 
March 2018 states that the interest  free period for money transfer and balance transfers 
would end on 4 May 2018. I believe that Mr M did get this statement. 
So, I have to conclude  that Mr M was made  aware that his interest free period  was coming to 
an end. 
I have looked  at the statements for this second credit card and I find that the interest  applied  
is correct. 
I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  that Mr M was hoping  for. But, without further 
evidence from Mr M, I find that I cant make any other decision. 
my final decision
For the reason  given  above, I wont be asking Tesco Personal  Finance PLC to do anything 
else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5912852