K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains after Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) cancelled his car insurance 
policy.
background
In January 2018 Mr D bought a car insurance policy.  He was the main driver and his son and 
spouse were named  drivers. The terms of the policy said a telematics box needed to be 
fitted. Mr D said it would be best to arrange  this appointment with his son. An appointment 
was agreed, however when the engineer arrived Mr Ds son wasnt at the address  and so 
the engineer didnt  fit the box. Mr Ds son had left the vehicle at the property so assumed the 
box had been  fitted.
RSA says it sent Mr D a number of emails. However it knows that this particular domain 
name often  considers emails from RSA to be spam,  so sometimes  customers  dont see 
communications. It said it also sent two letters by post to explain the policy was going  to be 
cancelled as the box hadnt  been  fitted.  Mr D says he didnt receive  these.
In March 2018 Mr D was reviewing his bank statements and realised no money had been 
taken for the policy. So he called RSA to find out what was happening. RSA told him the 
policy had been  cancelled. 
Mr D complained about the lack of communication. In particular, that RSA knowingly sent 
emails to an email address that it knew has problems with its emails; the fitter didnt let them 
know the box hadnt been fitted and that he didnt receive the letters RSA says it sent by 
post. He said as a result  his son was unknowingly driving  uninsured. And the new policy he 
needed to buy was much more expensive as a result of the cancellation. 
RSA reviewed Mr Ds complaint and agreed there  had been a number of issues mainly 
around how it had communicated with Mr D. However it also said it had sent two letters  to 
the correct address and Mr Ds son would have known the telematics  box hadnt been fitted. 
So it offered  to refund all the premiums Mr D had paid. And offered a further £100 to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  caused. It also noted  that this cancellation  didnt 
need to be declared to future insurers so shouldnt  affect Mr Ds future premiums.
An investigator at our service reviewed  Mr Ds complaint.  He said while there had been  
problems with the communication he thought RSA had sent the two letters  by post and so   
Mr D should have known  what was happening. He also said the offer RSA had made was 
fair to recognise the problems Mr D had faced. Mr D didnt agree and so the case  has come  
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. 
The type of policy Mr D chose required a telematics box to be fitted. Mr Ds son arranged an 
appointment with the engineer. However  he wasnt at home at the time as he says he 
thought the engineer would be able to fit the box without having access to the inside of the 
car. I havent  seen  any evidence to suggest the engineer ever told Mr Ds son this was the 
Ref: DRN56410742case, or that RSA suggested at any point during the sale that this was the case. And I can 
see evidence that shows the engineer kept to the agreed time and date and Mr Ds son 
didnt.
So Mr Ds son made an appointment but didnt attend. RSA says it wrote  to Mr D to let him 
know it was planning  to cancel the policy because the box hadnt been fitted. However this 
was done by email,  to an email address RSA knows has trouble receiving its emails. 
Considering the serious implications of cancelling  a policy, Id expect a business  to get in 
touch with a consumer more than once.  RSA says it wrote to Mr D by post following its 
emails. Firstly to say the policy was due to be cancelled  seven  days later and highlighting 
the implications of this. And then, again later to confirm the cancellation. RSA says these 
letters are always posted to customers, so its confident these werent  emailed. Ive seen 
system notes about these  letters  and copies of them.  Ive checked to see the letters  were  
addressed correctly. So on balance, Im persuaded that they were posted. I cant see Mr D 
has reported any problems in receiving post before. He has also mentioned  he received the 
letter in response  to his complaint. So I think RSA sent the letters.  
In any event, RSA has confirmed Mr D wont need to declare this cancellation going 
forwards. So I dont think this has affected  Mr Ds future ability  to buy policies. Because of 
this I now need  to consider whether the compensation RSA offered fairly reflects   the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
RSA has apologised  for the lack of communications and the problems  this caused. It has 
refunded the premium  Mr D paid and offered £100  to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr D was right to be concerned when  he found  out he wasnt insured. His son drives the car 
and is a new driver so I understand  hed want him to be insured fully.  Also, driving  without 
insurance is a serious offence. So I can understand that finding  out he wasnt  insured was 
distressing. Especially, since  he found  out himself rather than from RSA telling him. 
Fortunately Mr D identified the problem and made steps to put things right - including getting 
another policy.
Having considered everything  I think the compensation RSA has offered is fair and 
reasonable, I think it recognises  the distress and inconvenience caused as its in line with 
other awards   our service makes for cases of similar  seriousness. 
my final decision
I understand Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc has offered Mr D £100 compensation. I 
conclude this is fair and reasonable considering all of the circumstances so my final decision 
is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Mr D £100 if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56410743
Ref: DRN5641074