K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that One Insurance Limited wont pay for damage  caused by his van to a 
neighbours wall under his commercial motor insurance policy.  
background
In 2018, Mr Rs van rolled down his driveway  and crashed  into his neighbours wall. He 
claimed on his One Insurance van insurance  policy. It agreed to repair  his vehicle.  He also 
asked it to repair his neighbours wall. One Insurance said the neighbour would need to 
claim for the damage through their own home insurance. It said it would then reimburse  that 
insurer for the cost of the repairs. But Mr Rs neighbour didnt  want  to claim on their home 
insurance.
Mr R complained to One Insurance. But it didnt  change  its position. It said the neighbour 
would need to claim on their home insurance   or seek  legal representation to take things 
forward. Mr R then paid for the £700 repairs himself. He wants One Insurance  to repay him 
that.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr Rs 
policy said it would pay all sums  Mr R is legally responsible for as result  of an accident 
involving his van. So he thought One Insurance should cover  the cost of the repairs.  He 
recommended that it should refund Mr R what he had paid for these, with interest,  plus £100 
compensation. 
Mr R accepted the assessment, but One Insurance didnt. So the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Rs policy. Under section 3 Liability to Other People it says:
We will pay all sums you are legally responsible for: As a result of any accident 
involving your van or any other  vehicle,  or loading or unloading of your vehicle.
So I think this includes the damage  to the neighbours wall. One Insurance said that it hadnt 
refused to pay the claim. But it said that as a motor insurer  it doesnt  have  the capacity to 
deal with a claim relating  to property damage. It said the neighbour would need to claim 
through their own home insurance. The home insurer would validate the claim and then 
recover its costs from One Insurance. 
But Mr R said his neighbour didnt want to claim on their policy  as this might affect their 
future premiums. He said that when he explained this to One Insurance,  it said this was the 
only option. And so Mr R decided to pay for the walls repair  himself  and reclaim the costs  
from One Insurance. 
Ref: DRN59649862But One Insurance told us that in exceptional  circumstances, it would ask the claimant to 
provide three quotes from reputable companies. It would then validate the claim using  a loss 
adjuster. 
I cant see that One Insurance explained  this to Mr R. From its notes, it told Mr R and the 
neighbour that he would have to claim through their home insurance. And, in its response to 
Mr Rs complaint, it told him that the neighbour would have to seek  legal  representation  if 
they didnt have home insurance. 
One Insurance said it had tried to contact  the neighbour to reach an amicable settlement, but 
without success.  I can see that the neighbour called One Insurance on the day of the 
accident and was told to contact their home  insurer. But I cant see any record of any further 
contacts in its file notes. 
So I think One Insurance was responsible under  the policy terms and conditions  for the 
repair of the wall. I can understand that One Insurance may think that it didnt  have 
opportunity to validate the claim and so was prejudiced by Mr Rs decision to have  the wall 
repaired. 
But I think it didnt give Mr R any feasible alternative that would satisfy his neighbour. I think  
it could have explained the exceptional option  as an alternative.  In that case, Mr R could 
have obtained  the three  quotes  required.  But it didnt do this. 
So I think One Insurances handling of the claim prejudiced  Mr R. Hes now incurred 
expenses that he wouldnt have if One Insurance had explained  the further option available.  I 
think One Insurance hasnt acted fairly or reasonably.  So I think One Insurance should now 
restore Mr Rs position. 
Ive seen evidence  from Mr R of the £700  costs he paid for the walls  repair.  I think One 
Insurance lost the opportunity to validate this and so I cant say that this isnt a reasonable 
amount. 
I think One Insurance should now reimburse Mr R for this and, because  hes been without 
his money for some time, it should add interest  to this refund. I also think  that Mr R has been  
caused trouble  and upset by One Insurances  handling of his claim. I think  it should pay him 
£100 compensation for this as this is in keeping with what Id award  in similar  circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to do the following:
1.Reimburse Mr R £700 for his outlay  for the repair of the wall, adding interest to this 
amount at 8% simple from the date Mr R paid for the repair (27 March 2019) to the date 
of settlement. 
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires One Insurance to take off tax from this interest. One 
Insurance must give Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
3.Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
Ref: DRN59649863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5964986