K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC Bank plc asked him for personal information which  he says hed 
already provided.  Access to his account is restricted while the information is outstanding.
 
background
HSBC asked Mr L for personal  information as part of its safeguarding checks. Mr L says hed 
already given some of this information  to HSBC overseas, and he wasnt willing to provide it 
again. Mr L was also concerned that the information  would be shared with other authorities.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  He thought  it was likely that 
HSBCs safeguarding policy was introduced  following discussions with the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The investigator said HSBC was under a duty to keep Mr Ls data safe, and would 
only share information with other parties  if it had a legal obligation to do so. 
The investigator was satisfied that HSBC  had asked all its customers to provide similar 
information, and he didnt consider it had treated Mr L unfairly.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr L has strong feelings  on this matter. Id like to assure him Ive noted 
everything hes said, even  though  I may not be able to comment specifically on some  of the 
points hes raised. 
For the purpose of this complaint, Ive considered whether HSBC based in the UK has done  
anything wrong.
HSBC wrote to Mr L to ask for up-to-date details, so that it could  make  sure the records it 
held for him were accurate. It said this was necessary to protect both Mr L and the bank  
against fraud and financial crime.
Mr L didnt reply, so HSBC reduced Mr Ls cash withdrawal  limit to £50 a day. 
Mr L then provided some  of the information HSBC  had asked for, but not all of it. He 
considered some of HSBCs questions broke privacy laws, and said hed already provided 
the information. He was also concerned that HSBC would pass on the information to other 
authorities.
Banks are required by the Financial Conduct  Authority to minimise the risk of money  
laundering and financial crime. With that in mind, I dont think the information  HSBC asked 
Mr L to provide was unreasonable.  
In addition, I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBCs request was specific  to Mr L. Im 
satisfied it formed part of a wider exercise  to make sure the details it held for customers  
were accurate. 
Ref: DRN59359992Im also satisfied that HSBC restricted the account in line with its terms and conditions, 
because Mr L hadnt provided the information it needed. 
HSBC asked for other information which Mr L had provided to HSBC  based overseas. So I 
can understand why he was reluctant  to provide  that information again.  
But HSBC  in the UK has said that its a different entity to the overseas part of the business. 
So again,  I dont  think it was unreasonable for the UK business to ask for the information it 
needed.
As the investigator  has already  said,  HSBC has a duty to protect  Mr Ls data, and can only 
share it if it has a legal obligation  to do so. If Mr L considers HSBC has used his data 
inappropriately, he can raise this with the Information Commissioners  office.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5935999