K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy  was probably 
taken out in one of the banks branches and provided Mr J with cover  for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr J didnt agree. He 
said, in summary, that:
He didnt want  or need PPI.
If he hadnt  been able to work due to sickness he had various options for meeting his 
mortgage repayments  he wouldve received generous sick pay from his employer; he 
couldve got a lodger; he couldve sold his car; he couldve sold his flat; his parents 
couldve met his repayments  or repaid the mortgage in full.
He had other PPI policies with other  businesses and they have compensated him.
Staff wouldve been targeted to sell PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js complaint.
Halifax doesnt have  any paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a record  of 
what took place.  This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint for the following reasons:
I havent seen  anything to show that Halifax didnt make it clear that the PPI was a separate  
product. Overall, I think it more likely than not that Halifax  made Mr J aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it. Im not surprised Mr J cant remember  this as it 
happened so long ago.
Halifax says that this was likely to have been an advised sale.  This means  that, in 
recommending the policy,  it needed  to ensure that it suited Mr Js needs.  It doesnt look like 
the PPI was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
I say this because:
Ref: DRN57940142Mr J was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr J told us he wouldve received  six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay 
from his employer if he couldnt  work due to sickness or an accident. The mortgage was 
a significant long term financial commitment and Mr Js home was at risk if he didnt 
keep up with the repayments.  The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months  in the 
event of a successful claim for accident  or sickness. So I think  the PPI couldve been a 
useful benefit,  in addition to Mr Js existing arrangements. It also covered him if hed 
become unemployed.
Mr Js told us he had other options.  But the PPI wouldve meant he didnt have to resort  
to finding a lodger or selling  his car at a time when he was suffering  from an illness or 
recovering from an accident.  Ive also taken into account that he says his parents 
wouldve met his repayments.  But this wasnt a guaranteed  source of funds. So this 
doesnt make  a difference to my conclusion.
Mr J wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether  cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr J before he 
agreed to purchase it. Its possible he wasnt told it would cost £14.94  each month until 
after the mortgage  had started. For this reason  I have considered  whether clearer  
information about  the cost would have affected Mr Js decision to purchase the policy. 
He had chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So I think it unlikely he 
would have made  a different decision if better information  about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr J would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been  provided to him  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
Mr J says hes had other  PPI complaints upheld. But Ive considered  the individual  
circumstances surrounding  this complaint and the outcome of any other  complaints  dont  
make a difference here.
Ref: DRN57940143my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5794014