K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with his claim under a travel insurance policy.  He wants matters  put right.
background
Mr V had a travel  insurance  policy with IPA. Mr V went abroad on honeymoon, visiting a 
number of countries  with his wife. He fell ill and had to cancel his visit to one country. Mr V 
claimed for the cancelled trip, but IPA only paid £1356.98 towards one flight and half the 
costs of the unused  hotel  as his share of the costs,  and charged an excess fee.
Mr V complained to IPA, and said that the costs would be the same whether two or one 
persons were staying  in the room and the maximum recoverable benefit for unused  hotel 
accommodation was £2,000. IPA said that its initial decision to decline the claim was correct  
as the policy  didnt cover Mr Vs circumstances, but it had decided  to pay of the claim as a 
gesture of goodwill. IPA explained that the policy only covered Mr Vs proportion of the costs, 
not the person with whom  he was due to stay in the hotel. This was why it only offered half 
the hotel cost as settlement (the other traveller should claim under  their insurance). IPA 
noted that the excess fee was part of the terms of the policy.
Mr V complained to us. The investigators view was that IPA had acted fairly and reasonably 
in deciding to accept the claim, even though it was arguably excluded  by the terms and 
conditions of the policy as Mr Vs cancelled trip didnt start in the UK. She didnt think IPA 
took too long to deal with the claim.  The investigator  said IPA had acted fairly  and 
reasonably by just paying Mr Vs costs, and not his wifes, as only Mr V was covered by the 
policy and it said clearly  only his share  of costs would  be covered.
Mr V disagreed. He said IPA hadnt understood the full situation and made the decision too 
quickly. Mr V was also unhappy about  having  to explain the position more than once and 
supply medical evidence to support his claim. The investigator said that this wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The relevant rules  and industry  guidelines 
say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject 
a claim unreasonably.
I note that IPA initially declined the claim as the cancelled trip wasnt being started from the 
UK. I think  that it was fair and reasonable to review this decision in the circumstances of 
Mr Vs case  as he was undertaking a trip visiting more than one country  on honeymoon and 
he became unwell within the first 31 days of leaving the UK.
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions of the policy, it does only cover Mr Vs share  of 
the costs. I appreciate that he says theres no extra cost for his wife staying in the room,  but 
thats not necessarily  always the case.  And critically, the policy  refers  to Mr Vs proportion of 
costs, not the all the costs he paid. And Mr Vs wife mayve had her own travel  insurance 
policy, letting make her own claim for her share  of the costs.
Ref: DRN53554472I thought about  whether it was fair and reasonable for IPA to apply the terms and conditions 
of the policy  in all the circumstances of this case.  Mr V paid the all the costs for example 
from the evidence  available  to me. I decided that it was fair and reasonable; the policy set 
out clearly only Mr Vs share of costs would  be covered and IPAs  position prevented  double-
recovery as Mr Vs wife could have her own insurance policy.
Theres no evidence on which I could find that IPA made its decision too quickly. And I note 
that the policy makes  it clear a £50 excess fee would be charged and that medical evidence  
to support the claim would  be required at the policyholders own expense.  This isnt unfair or 
unreasonable in my view. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5355447