K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr C bought the policy in July 2004  at the same as taking out a credit  card.  Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaints  
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. I know Mr C will find this disappointing so Ill 
explain why.
Mr C completed  a questionnaire when  he first complained to Canada Square. He said the 
PPI was sold to him by internet  and post. Later Mr C completed a questionnaire for this 
service in which he said the sale was made during telephone calls. The sale took place 
around 15 years ago so its not surprising Mr C hasnt been  clear in his recollections as 
memories do fade over time. Canada Square has said the credit card application and sale of 
the PPI was made over the internet  and from what Ive seen I think  that is most likely.
Canada Square  had to make it clear to Mr C that PPI was optional and that he had a fair 
choice about whether  to take it out. The policy was taken out as part of Mr Cs credit card 
application. Ive seen examples of the screens he likely wouldve completed at the time, one 
of which  included a PPI section. The PPI section  includes equally prominent yes and no 
options for PPI. I think its unlikely PPI wouldve been added to Mr Cs account  unless  he 
clicked on the yes box. Mr C has suggested  that the online form may have been pre-set     
to select PPI but I think thats unlikely give the two options were shown.  
Ive seen some of the monthly statements Mr C wouldve received. And I can see that PPI 
premiums are referred to as credit card repayment protector. So I think its likely he 
wouldve noticed the additional product he was paying for. And I can see Mr C cancelled the 
PPI in February 2005 so I think he was aware it wasnt something he had to have in order to 
keep the credit card.
Taking everything into account,  I think Canada Square made it clear that Mr C didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this after so many years.
As the credit card was taken out over the internet I think its unlikely Mr C was given advice 
by Canada Square. So it didnt have to check that the policy  was suitable for him. However, 
it still had to give Mr C clear  information about  the policy so he could make  a decision about 
whether it was right for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr C couldve been  clearer but I dont 
think clearer information wouldve led to Mr C making a different decision. I say this because:
Ref: DRN55999922Mr C was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations,  for example,  any that related to pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Mr C has said that he may have been paid by commission only at the time of the sale 
and not salaried. Mr C has said the policy would not therefore  cover him. But Ive not 
seen anything in the terms and conditions  of the policy  that exclude claims by 
employees paid by commission only. So even if Mr C was paid in this way I think hed 
still have been  able to claim if he needed  to.
The policy wouldve  covered  10% of Mr Cs monthly balance for up to 12 months  if he 
became too ill to work. Mr C said his employer did not provide sick pay. So I think    
Mr C wouldve found the policy  useful if he couldnt work.
The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit if Mr C had lost his job. So I think 
its likely  he wouldve  found the policy  to be useful if things went  wrong.
Mr C told us he had some  savings but the policy would mean hed be able to use the 
savings for other living expenses if he couldnt  work.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr C.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr C about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what he told us about  having contact 
with Canada Square by telephone while completing  the application. Ive assessed  the 
complaint as if Mr C completed  the application via the internet without any advice. But even I 
thought Mr C did speak  to Canada Square  and was advised to take the policy it wouldnt 
change my decision. I say this as I think the policy was presented  as being optional and      
Mr C chose to take it out. I think the policy was right for him, as he had a need  for the cover  
and little other means to make the payments if he couldnt work. And he was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by any of the policy exclusions. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN55999923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5599992