K821x#15complaint
Ms H and Mr H say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for their 
mortgage. Aviva Insurance Limited,  as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to Aviva  in this decision, rather  than any other  business.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out for a mortgage in 2005. 
It covered Ms H only,  in case  she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Aviva disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms H and Mr Hs case.  
I think this PPI policy was mis-sold  here, and Ill explain why.
Its not clear whether  Ms H and Mr H were recommended  PPI, so to be fair to Aviva Ive 
assumed that they werent.  So Aviva  didnt have to check the policy  was right for Ms H. But it 
did have to give Ms H and Mr H information about PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so they could  decide for themselves  whether it was right for Ms H.
I cant see that Aviva gave Ms H and Mr H clear  enough information  about the policys  
exclusions. I think this wouldve  mattered to them, because Ms H had a medical condition  
which would not have been  covered. So she couldnt have claimed  on the policy  for 
everything she expected to be able to.
Ms Hs condition was a potentially serious one, and one that could lead on to a range of 
severe complications. She had to have daily treatment, regular tests, and had had a number 
of days off work when  things had got worse.
Aviva pointed out that Ms H had not seen a doctor in the 12 months before taking the policy. 
It argues that this means  she was not caught  by the exclusion. But Aviva is not correct.
The policy defined pre-existing conditions as any medical condition  for which  you have 
received treatment, medication or advice in the 12 month period immediately before the start 
date. This includes any treatment to monitor the condition . It excluded  any disability claims 
due to a pre-existing condition unless you have  not suffered from, received treatment or 
consulted or doctor or consultant about  the condition in the 24 months before your disability 
occurred. So Ms Hs ongoing symptoms,  regular monitoring, and daily treatment and 
medication meant she was caught, regardless of whether shed  happened  to have a doctors 
appointment in the 12 months  before the start date.
Ref: DRN58114642Further, the policy also excluded  disability claims due to a chronic condition, defined as a 
condition that occurs before the start date and that continues indefinitely  or cannot be cured  
or eradicated and that recurs or requires treatment. So Ms Hs condition  was, in effect, 
caught twice over.
Ms Hs condition could  cause quite a range of potential problems, so these exclusions cast a 
wide net for her. And her condition was the most likely thing to make her claim for disability.
So if Aviva had given  Ms H and Mr H clear enough information about  the policys exclusions, 
then I think its most  likely they wouldnt have bought it. And so I think Ms H and Mr H have 
lost out because of what  Aviva  did wrong. 
putting things right
Aviva should  put Ms H and Mr H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Aviva should:
Pay Ms H and Mr H back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Ms H made a successful  claim under  this PPI policy, Aviva can take off what was paid 
out for the claim from the amount  it owes.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Aviva  to take off tax from this interest.  Aviva must give Ms H and 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. Ms H and Mr H can claim 
back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms H and Mr Hs complaint. Aviva Insurance  Limited  
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5811464