K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin) declined  his credit card application  and later 
approved it following a complaint. Hes also unhappy he received marketing material from 
Virgin and hes concerned about the security of the information he provided during the 
application process.
background
Mr B applied for a Virgin credit card on 16 February  2019. This application was initially  
declined, which Mr B thought was due to his age because hes 70 years old. And he says he 
has a good income  and good credit history. 
After Mr Bs application was declined he complained to Virgin because he wanted to 
understand the rationale behind its decision.  As a result this complaint, Virgin  said it 
reviewed and approved  Mr Bs application on 27 February 2019. His account was opened  on 
4 March 2019. But Mr B said he had opened a credit card elsewhere by this point. So he 
didnt need a credit card with Virgin anymore and asked it to close  his account, which it did.
Mr B wasnt  happy about what  happened. He told Virgin  he thought  it had declined  his credit 
card application  due to his age and he was concerned that anyone could access the bank 
details that he had provided  Virgin with during  the application process.  He was also unhappy 
that he was receiving unwanted  marketing  material. 
When Virgin responded to Mr Bs complaint  it told him it declined his credit card application 
because he didnt meet  its lending criteria based on the information  available to it at that 
time. It denied discriminating against him on the basis of age. And it assured him it wouldnt 
share his personal  details  with any third parties. Virgin also said it would close his account  in 
accordance with his request and instruct its marketing department  not to send any further 
marketing communications.
But Mr B wasnt  satisfied  with Virgins final response  and asked our service for an 
independent view. In addition to the points raised  with Virgin  in his complaint Mr B also told 
our service  that he wasnt happy  his application had been approved after he complained  
because by this time he had already  obtained  credit elsewhere.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt  uphold it. They  werent persuaded 
that there  was any evidence of age discrimination.  And they explained why they didnt think  
it was unreasonable for Virgin to have approved Mr Bs application after reconsidering  it. Our 
investigator didnt  Virgin  had done anything  wrong by sending  Mr B marketing  material and 
they were satisfied that it was keeping his personal information secure. Overall, they thought 
Virgin had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly.  But Mr B rejected our investigators view in its 
entirety and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B has raised some  concerns about  the adequacy of our investigators 
investigation into his complaint.  But Im satisfied our investigator  has requested all the evidence 
Id have expected them to ask for from Virgin. I should also point out that Ive considered all of 
Ref: DRN55636522that information afresh before making  a final decision. Id like to assure  Mr B that the information  
I have is clear and I dont need any more to be able to reach a decision here.
Mr B believes that his credit card application  was declined due to his age. And he feels  
Virgin discriminated against him on this basis. Ive seen the information  Mr B has provide our 
service about his financial position  and credit rating. He said hes never  had an application 
for credit declined. And, because hes financially comfortable and has good  credit history,  he 
believes that the only reason his application  could  have been declined  is due to his age.
Virgin disputes this. And its provided a number of reasons why Mr Bs application may have 
been declined.  It says  and I have  no reason  to doubt  that his application was declined 
because he didnt meet  its lending criteria.  It also said that during the application process  
one of the credit reference agencies Virgin would have contacted was experiencing technical  
problems. So, this may have affected the information Virgin was provided with about Mr Bs 
financial standing.  And it might explain  why Mr Bs application was declined.
Virgin also told our service  that Mr B made a number of credit card applications on 16 
February, which was because its system was experiencing technical issues. I understand 
that all but one of those  applications timed out and the other one was declined.  Virgin  said its 
computer systems might  have treated multiple applications as duplicates,  which  could 
generate an automated decline  and be another reason why his application didnt succeed.
I understand why Mr B is keen to get a better understanding  of why his application was 
declined initially. But looking at the information Virgin  has provided, I think  its given him as 
much detail as possible  about why his application  may have been declined. Im satisfied 
Virgin is entitled to keep commercially  sensitive information about its lending criteria 
confidential. So I think its reasonable for Virgin to be unable  to say what  specifically caused 
Mr Bs application to be declined. 
Theres persuasive evidence that Virgin, and the credit reference  agency it would have contacted  
about Mr Bs application, were experiencing technical issues at the time of Mr Bs credit  card 
application. So, Im satisfied that there are a number of plausible  reasons why Mr Bs application 
may have  been  declined.  And bearing  in mind his application was approved on 27 February  2019  
I think its unlikely that Virgins  initial decision  to decline  his application was based on age. 
After Mr Bs credit card was declined Virgin reconsidered his application and approved it. 
Mr B isnt happy his application was reconsidered because he said he didnt ask Virgin to do 
this. But when Mr B complained about  his application being declined Virgin said it dealt with 
the application as an appeal, believing he still wanted to apply for a credit card. 
Mr B had made several  applications for his credit card during the application process.  
So, I think it was fair for Virgin to think he still wanted the credit card. I think  its reasonable 
for Virgin to have reconsidered its earlier  decision to decline an application in circumstances 
where a customer had raised a complaint about that decision. I appreciate  that Mr B no 
longer needed credit  facilities  with Virgin by the point  that his application was approved but I 
havent seen any evidence that Virgin knew that. It follows that I cant  fairly  find that it made  
an error in approving Mr Bs application.  
I appreciate that opening this account  caused inconvenience to Mr B because  it then had to 
be closed. By this point  a balance had been transferred onto this card, which  had incurred a 
fee. But I can see that Virgin assisted Mr B in the account closure  process. And I note that 
the balance transfer was reversed and the fee it incurred was written off. Mr B said this 
Ref: DRN55636523caused him to incur  a loss elsewhere as he owed an extra £120 to another  credit card 
provider. But I cant fairly hold Virgin responsible for that because Im not persuaded it made 
an error in approving his credit card application.
Ill turn next to Mr Bs concerns which are about  the security of the bank details he provided 
Virgin with during the card application process.  This information was given to Virgin  for the 
purposes of setting up a direct debit. Virgin has a duty to keep customer information  
confidential. And its stated that information  about  Mr Bs bank account  is being securely 
held and that no third parties would have access to it.
I havent seen  any evidence that the information Mr B provided to Virgin about his bank 
account has been compromised by it or accessed  by anyone. In any event,  I should  explain 
that its not our role to decide whether a breach  of data protection has taken place. Thats 
the role of the Information Commissioners Office but, overall, Im persuaded that Mr Bs 
personal information is being kept secure and confidential by Virgin.
The final part of Mr Bs complaint is about the unwanted marketing material  he has received. 
And I can appreciate  how Mr B may be upset  by receiving unwelcome post from Virgin  given 
the background to his complaint. But, Im not persuaded  Virgin  did anything wrong in sending  
marketing information  to him because Ive seen evidence that on the application Mr B made 
for his credit  card he selected to be kept informed by post, phone,  SMS and email.  
I can see that Virgin acted  on Mr Bs instructions that it stop sending him any further 
promotional information.  I say this as Virgin asked  its marketing team to remove Mr Bs 
details from any marketing campaigns.  So, Im satisfied that Virgin has taken  appropriate 
steps to stop Mr B receiving such literature in the future.
I know this wont be the response Mr B will want and I understand he feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given,  I dont think  Virgin  made 
an error here. I think that it has responded to this complaint fairly and reasonably and I wont  
be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5563652