K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr E says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr E didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. Mr E 
applied for the credit  card by post. On the credit card application form there  was a 
separate section  about PPI, which Mr E has signed to say he wants it.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr E got the information he needed  to decide if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr E paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr E back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Bank of 
Scotland has already paid this to Mr E.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5787721