K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  turned down her private  medical 
insurance claim.
background
Mrs H took out her policy in September 2018. The policy was underwritten  on a moratorium 
basis. That meant she didnt have cover for any pre-existing conditions  experienced in the 
five years before the policy started, until shed held the cover for two years and had been 
trouble-free in that time. 
In November 2018, Mrs H went to see her GP about  pain in her hip. She told her GP shed 
been experiencing pain for two years.  She was later diagnosed with osteoarthritis of the hip 
and needed a hip replacement. Mrs H made  a claim for this under the policy.
AXA turned down the claim, as it thought Mrs Hs condition was pre-existing and therefore 
fell under the moratorium. Unhappy with this, Mrs H brought a complaint to this service. She 
paid for the operation herself. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  AXAs decision to 
turn down the claim was reasonable. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter  has been passed  to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy defines  a pre-existing condition  as:
any disease, illness  or injury that:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment for in the five years  before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover:  
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
Mrs H visited her GP in November 2018. Her GP referred her to an orthopaedic surgeon  for 
further assessment,  and said shed described  a two year history  of progressive pains in her 
right hip and groin. The GP said Mrs H had battled  on with this pain for some time and had 
tried to improve the situation through swimming  and yoga,  however her symptoms were  
worsening.
Given that Mrs H had experienced  symptoms of hip pain for around two years before the 
policy started, AXA said this fell under  the policy definition of a pre-existing condition. 
Mrs H has made reference to some information on our website which  she thinks  is relevant 
to her claim. It says this service generally takes the view that claims  shouldnt  be excluded  
where the consumer  has suffered from some  undiagnosed or minor generalised symptoms  
at the start of the policy.  
Ref: DRN50629822As our investigator has explained, we take into account a number of factors  when deciding 
whether it was reasonable for an insurer to find that a consumer was experiencing a pre-
existing condition. Some of those factors include: - the intensity of the symptoms;  whether 
any medical advice  had been  sought;  and the connection between the pre-existing condition  
and the condition that gave rise to the claim (and the foreseeability of this).  We also normally 
say an insurer cant exclude claims if it would have accepted the risk at the outset, had full 
underwriting been  carried out. 
Mrs H thinks that she was experiencing minor  generalised symptoms before the policy was 
taken out. Shes provided some comments from her consultant orthopaedic surgeon  in 
support of this. He said Mrs H had experienced various aches and pains which  she put down 
to ageing, before being diagnosed  with a hip condition. And that no diagnosis was sought by 
her before November 2018. He said Mrs H would have had no idea she had a condition of 
the hip that may have needed a surgical solution.
I appreciate that before  November 2018,  Mrs H didnt seek medical  advice for her 
symptoms. Nonetheless,  she was experiencing pain in her hip over a significant period, and 
had tried to improve her symptoms through exercise. Whilst Mrs H may not have realised 
that her symptoms were  due to osteoarthritis,  its still the case  that her symptoms were 
directly connected to the condition that gave  rise to the claim. 
I think that if the policy had been  fully underwritten (in other  words,  if medical  questions  been 
asked by AXA  when  the policy was taken  out) and Mrs H had told AXA about her mild but 
progressive hip pain over a two year period, AXA would have excluded  this from cover. 
Overall, and whilst I appreciate how much effort Mrs H has made in bringing her complaint to 
us, I think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude  that Mrs H had a pre-existing condition  and 
that her claim therefore fell under the moratorium. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5062982