K820x#14complaint
Miss V has complained  Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  didnt provide her the right 
information about the money she owed them. Shes subsequently been concerned at the 
information Shop Direct lodged on her credit  record.
background
After making her regular  payment in January  2019, Miss V was concerned to see the next 
payment due on 8 February 2019 was set at over £100. This was almost double  her 
expected minimum payment. Shed  returned an item to Shop Direct which hadnt been taken 
into account. After contacting  them,  it was confirmed her amended  payment  was £59.64. 
Theyd now taken the returned item into account. Miss V paid £59.54 on 21 February.
Miss V remained unhappy about how her account was calculated: particularly the Buy Now 
Pay Later (BNPL)  items. She was shocked it was going to cost her £5 a page to have 
duplicate statements provided  and felt this was designed to limit her ability to understand 
how much  she owed.   
She brought  her complaint to the ombudsman service at the same time as Shop Direct  had 
time to consider  her complaint. Shop Direct  provided  Miss V with a detailed  final response in 
April explaining why her account stood as it did. This provided their explanation  about items 
Miss V said shed never  received. Shop  Direct confirmed these had been delivered  along 
with other  items Miss V had confirmed shed received. Miss V still didnt think  she was being  
treated fairly and wanted our service to look at her complaint.
During the time Miss Vs complaint  was with our service, she believed shed been told by 
Shop Direct that she didnt need  to make her monthly payments. So shed not made  
payments. This had resulted  in late payment markers being  placed on her credit record. As 
she was trying to get a mortgage, she was very concerned about this. Shop Direct didnt 
believe theyd done anything wrong  and had done  what was required of them  complying with 
requirements to provide  correct information  on someones credit record.  To help minimise 
any ongoing impact, Miss V settled  her account  in full in November 2019.
Our investigator got copies of some  calls Miss V had had with Shop Direct along  with 
detailed statements and information about money  owed. Overall  she felt it wouldnt be fair to 
ask Shop Direct to do anything further.
Miss V didnt agree with this outcome.  Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised by Miss V. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues  here. Our rules  allow  me to do this. 
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts.
Ref: DRN57794842Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This 
includes whats required of businesses in ensuring correct data is lodged  on individuals 
credit records.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Shop Direct and Miss V have told us. Shop Direct has also given us copies of calls 
between them and Miss V when  she queried  what was going  on. She specifically believes 
she was told she didnt  need to make any minimum repayments.
The evidence weve considered has also been  shared  with Miss V.
I can see the timeline of events and Miss Vs testimony were  covered in our investigators  
view of 7 February 2020. I dont  intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of 
course, refer to those  aspects which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Miss V 
and Shop Direct Ive reviewed the file and evidence thoroughly.  
There are a few threads  to this complaint and Ill refer to those that I believe are relevant to 
the outcome.
repayment required in February 2019
Theres no dispute Miss Vs initial required payment in February was higher  than it should  
have been. I dont believe from reviewing the evidence Shop Direct gave us that theyd taken 
into account Miss Vs returned item. Once they noted this, Miss Vs payment was reduced.  
Much more to the level shed have expected.
However Miss V didnt make this payment until nearly a fortnight after the due date. This 
resulted in a late payment charge being added  and Shop Direct noting  a missed payment on 
Miss Vs credit record.
I cant see these actions  were incorrect. Although I appreciate Miss V felt she was disputing 
what was going  on with her account,  she knew a payment would be required and delayed  
making this. Ive not seen any effective reasoning why she did this.
missing items and account  status
Shop Directs final response to Miss V went through in detail those items she felt shed never 
received. This confirmed  these items were delivered along with other items that werent in 
dispute.
Miss V then told us she thought shed returned those items although its clear Shop Direct  
had not got any record  of receiving those items back the way. This is surprising as the item 
Miss V returned in January  2019 was definitely  received by Shop Direct and her account 
updated accordingly. So Im not sure why the other items  which  Miss V didnt initially recall 
receiving  wouldnt have  been received and noted  properly.
Ref: DRN57794843I appreciate the difficulty Miss V would  have in proving to us shed sent items  back.  But Shop 
Direct has a returns policy and I dont believe if shed followed this, these items wouldnt 
have been re-credited to her account.
Miss V has told us she thinks she may not have  been as rigorous with her account and 
checking items and details were updated  as they should have been. I sympathise with this 
but I think shell appreciate this is her responsibility.
In any case after reviewing the evidence I dont think Miss V is being  charged for any items 
she shouldnt have  been.
Miss V has received all the statements we received from Shop Direct. This showed  her 
payment record and what was owed. Although Miss V has continued to disagree  with these 
totals, shes not given us any further  explanation why I should believe these are incorrect.
Our investigator explained how BNPL worked on her account but I can see Miss V had held 
an account with Shop Direct for nine years so I think its fair to assume she was aware of all 
of this.
information lodged  on Miss Vs credit record by Shop  Direct
I suspect the major aspect of this complaint for Miss V is the information  Shop Direct lodged 
on her credit  record in 2019.
Firstly Miss V knows  theres nothing on any of the calls our service received from Shop 
Direct that suggest  she was told there  was no need  to make any monthly  payments towards 
her account.  I can see she was told her account  was on hold but this was to ensure thered 
be no collection activity taken whilst her complaint was with our service. In line with the 
terms and conditions of her account shed have been aware she needed  to at least make a 
minimum payment on a monthly  basis towards her account.
Miss V has noted at no stage was she told that if she didnt make any payment this would 
have an impact on her credit record. I agree it would have been  helpful if this had been 
made clear to her but I dont think there was any obligation on Shop Direct to notify her of 
this.
Shop Direct noted missed  payments on Miss Vs account on her credit record. Miss V 
believes they should have put a Q for query  instead as she was in dispute with them at the 
time. What Shop Direct confirmed was that it was the credit reference  agencies  that 
allocated a Q on her credit record for a couple  of months. This had the result of limiting the 
number of months Miss Vs record shows she missed a payment. From looking at Miss Vs 
payment record I suspect that Shop  Direct would have properly shown that Miss Vs account 
was in arrears from February until the final payment in November 2019. The statements we 
shared with Miss V show that when she was making payments, she wasnt  making the full 
minimum payment required to meet the arrears that had started  to build up.
If anything I think this had the impact  of showing Miss Vs record  to be in a slightly  better 
position than it could have been. I dont think Shop Direct has done  anything wrong although 
obviously this had an impact on Miss V.
Ref: DRN57794844I can see Shop Direct paid Miss V a small amount of compensation for the service issues 
she had. They didnt  call her back when  they said they would nor did they properly address 
her complaint made online.  I think this is fair and reasonable.
Overall I wont  be asking  Shop Direct to do anything further. I appreciate  this will come  as a 
disappointment to Miss V.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Vs complaint against 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5779484