K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Marks  & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S)  mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss H bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Miss H says 
she cant remember how she took the policy out but thinks  she mightve applied for it online.  
M&S cannot identify how it was sold but thinks it was possibly sold by a postal  application.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. M&S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, explaining 
why I wasnt minded to uphold  the complaint. A copy  of my findings  is attached  to the end of 
this decision. 
I asked both parties for their comments before I issued my final decision. Everyone 
confirmed they had received my provisional  decision and M&S had nothing further to add. 
Miss H responded  and said she wouldnt  have  knowingly taken out the PPI. She wanted to 
know why she didnt  receive anything to confirm  she had signed and why M&S cant provide 
a copy of her signed agreement. Miss H has also reiterated that her parents wouldve been 
supportive if she had needed  financial support. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs case.
Having done so, I still dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its disappointing that neither Miss H nor M&S have been able to give me any more 
information about the sale, or any of the paperwork Miss H got or signed.  However,  its not 
surprising given its been around  16 years  since the sale took place. But that makes it this 
difficult for me to decide this case as I have two differing accounts of what happened  and 
neither is supported by any further  evidence,  such as any paperwork that was completed at 
the time.  
So I have  to base  my decision on what I know of how policies of this kind were sold at the 
time and on the balance  of probabilities. Having done this, I think its unlikely M&S  would 
have added the PPI without Miss H indicating she wanted. But I can understand why Ms H 
cant remember taking out the policy now. 
Its likely  that Miss H wouldve received  some  information about  the policy after it was added 
to her account, but its also unsurprising that she doesnt remember receiving this now.  The 
PPI was also listed as a charge on her statements, so I would have expected  her to query 
this if it wasnt something she had agreed  to.  
I know Miss H feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, including 
that she has said again about the support she wouldve received from her parents. But for 
Ref: DRN57243322the reasons Ive explained in my provisional  decision  and above,  these  points dont change  
my decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
complaint
Miss H says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Ref: DRN57243323background
Miss H bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Miss H says she cant  
remember how she took the policy  out but thinks she mightve applied for it online.  M&S cannot  
identify how it was sold but thinks  it was possibly sold by a postal application.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. M&S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think  M&S made Miss H aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because of what I think is more  likely to have happened around the time of the sale.   
Miss H says the policy was bought online  but M&S has said its records show it received a form from 
her around  the time of the sale which means its likely Miss H applied for her card and the PPI by 
completing a postal application.  
Our adjudicator thought M&S hadnt demonstrated the optional nature of the policy  or that the credit  
card and the PPI were separate products. 
Unfortunately M&S hasnt been able to give me a copy  of the agreement  that Miss H signed. But it 
has given me screenshots  of the process for internet sales and a sample application form for postal 
sales that were used  around the time of sale.  
The screenshots show  a customer wouldve had to select yes or no to take the policy and the 
application couldnt be progressed  unless  an option was selected. The postal application  shows that a 
customer wouldve had to sign separately to indicate agreement  to both the credit card and the policy. 
And each  of those agreements  says that the PPI was optional.  
So while I dont have the agreement signed  by Miss H after considering these samples, as well as 
taking into account what we know  about  how M&S sold PPI at the time,  I think its more likely than not 
that whatever agreement  Miss H saw would also have  given her the choice to take the policy, and that 
she chose to take it.
As Miss H says the sale of the policy  was online  (and M&S thinks  it was sold via a postal application) 
and not during a discussion  with a representative, I think its unlikely  that M&S  recommended the PPI 
to Miss H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information 
so she could  make her own choice. 
But having thought  about  what we know about how M&S sold these policies around the time,  I think it 
wouldve given her some  information. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
Miss H doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  and 
based on what I know  about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve  been useful to her. 
Miss H has told us she only had limited sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI wouldve 
paid out alongside her benefits and for considerably  longer.  Ive also noted Miss H has said her 
parents wouldve helped out but as peoples circumstances can change, this help cant be 
guaranteed. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful to her. 
Ref: DRN57243324It also doesnt look like the PPI was unaffordable. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped 
her buying it.
Overall, I dont think Miss H has lost out by anything M&S might have done wrong.
Ref: DRN5724332