K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that following a claim to Ageas Insurance  Limited  (Ageas) under his 
personal possessions  policy, they did not repair his laptops properly and have told him that 
further repairs will need to be as part of a separate claim  with a second excess. He says 
they also did not deal with his claim as quickly as he wouldve liked.
background
Mr P had insurance with Ageas covering accidental damage to his two laptops. Mr P made a 
claim in June 2017 after he dropped them down the stairs. 
Ageas accepted the claim, Mr P paid his £100 excess  and the laptops were  sent for repair  
and returned three  times without being repaired fully. Ageas says that they repaired the 
original faults but the laptops  developed further  faults after they were  returned to Mr P. 
Ageas says that these faults can be repaired but under a separate claim with a separate  
excess being paid.
Following the accident  Mr P reported that the first laptop which I will refer to as laptop one 
had cracks  in the casing. It also made  grinding  and crackling noises when the laptop was on. 
Mr P said that it was very slow to start up and would unexpectedly lose power.
After a month, the laptop was returned to Mr P. When  Mr P received it, he says it was not 
repaired as the exterior was still broken and the operating  issues were still there. So he sent 
it back. The casing  was then fixed but the internal problems were  still present. Mr P returned 
the laptop again for the internal faults to be repaired. It finally came back three months later.
This time Mr P says the laptop would not power up, all functionality was gone and it was not 
able to charge.  The laptop was returned to the repairers.
The final report says that the hard drive for laptop one will need replacing because it has 
failed the smart  test and it is not charging because  the PSU is faulty. The insurance 
company says these  faults are not related to the original claim.
The second  laptop, which I will refer to as laptop  two, had a cracked screen and made  
grinding noises  and it took twenty  minutes to power  up. The repairer  took five months to 
return this machine to Mr P. 
In their final report Ageas have said that the hard drive on laptop two is faulty so that is the 
reason for the grinding noises and the speakers need replacing because  of the crackling 
noises. Ageas say that these faults  are not related  to the previous repair following the 
original claim.
Mr P returned both machines to the repairer in November 2017. The laptops are still with 
them. 
Both the insurer and Mr P agree that following the repairs the laptops are still not working 
properly. But the insurer is saying that the current faults have nothing  to do with the original  
accident or with the standard of repair work. They have  said that they are willing  to repair  the 
laptops if a new claim  is made  and a new excess is paid. 
Ref: DRN55141272Following Mr Ps complaint Ageas identified delays  in the processing  of the claim and offered  
Mr P £150  in compensation.
Mr P was unhappy at the way his laptops were being repaired and so he complained to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint, He thought Ageas had repaired the original faults on 
the machines  apart from the rubber feet on laptop  two. He said that Ageas should replace 
the rubber feet on laptop  two. He agreed with Ageas that the remaining faults in the laptops 
should be a new claim with a new excess.
Mr P was not happy with what our investigator  said and the matter has come to me for 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy document says that Ageas may repair, reinstate or replace  the lost or damaged  
property. If we cannot replace or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage  in 
cash. If no equivalent replacement is available then we will pay the full replacement cost of 
the item with no discount applied.  
Mr P and Ageas agree that the laptops  still have faults and both laptops are with the 
repairer. These faults could be because of the age of the machines, because  of the accident 
or because  they were  badly repaired.
Mr P says that the repairer has not repaired the laptops properly and caused  some new 
faults. I can find no evidence that new faults  have been caused by the repairer.
In this case I have expert evidence from the engineers dealing with the repairs for Ageas 
that says that the hard drive and PSU need replacing on laptop one and the hard drive  is 
faulty on laptop two and the speakers also need  replacing. The report  suggests that these 
faults are not related to the previous claim.  Mr P says that the laptops worked well before the 
accident.
I must be guided by the expert report.  I believe that Mr P has been invited to provide his own 
report. But as there  is no expert report supporting Mr Ps view or giving a different viewpoint, 
I find it more likely than not that the faults on laptop  one and two are not because of 
inadequate repair.
Ageas have offered to replace the parts  on payment of a further excess  and I think this is fair 
in the circumstances. It would cost Mr P more than the excess to have the laptops repaired 
privately.
I note that the claim has been delayed and Ageas offered Mr P £150  to compensate for the 
inconvenience in the way it handled  the claim and the complaint. Some of the delay in the 
claim has been because  of the parties not agreeing  what should be the next step and who 
should bear the excess. So although I sympathise that Mr P has not had the use of his 
laptops for a long time I think  this further  delay is due to the dispute  and not anything  that 
Ageas did to further slow the claim.  So I think Ageas offer of compensation for its poor 
handling of Mr Ps claim is fair in the circumstances 
Ref: DRN55141273my final decision
I uphold the complaint.
I am aware  that Ageas  Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £150. I conclude  that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
Ageas  Insurance Limited should  replace the rubber feet on laptop  two 
It should repair the laptops as a separate further  claim  on payment of a 
second excess. 
It should also pay Mr P £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5514127