K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited unfairly quoted  him a high 
renewal premium for his car insurance policy.
background
When Mr As policy renewed in April 2016 his premium  was around £400. When it renewed 
in April 2017 the premium doubled.  He complained.
Advantage didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mr A didn't think that was fair so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. She felt that Advantage 
had treated Mr A fairly. As Mr A didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr A has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all of those very carefully. 
But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is to decide 
if Advantage have  dealt  with Mr A in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr As premium  for the 2016  policy year was around £400. Ten months  into the policy, in 
February 2017, he changed  his car. The new car was more  expensive, newer and more 
powerful. As a result,  a mid-term adjustment was made to his policy  and Mr A had to pay an 
additional premium  of around  £60 for the remaining two months of his policy.  When  his 
policy renewed in April 2017, Mr A had the same car he added to his policy in February 
2017. His premium increased to around  £800.  I should say at this stage that the amounts Im 
quoting are approximate  and dont include the admin fees charged by the broker or the 
interest charged because  Mr A was paying in instalments. So although the premium  for the 
April 2017 policy was around £800, the broker fee and interest  was around £150 so the total 
cost of the policy was almost £1,000.  Mr A, understandably, wanted to know why his 
premium doubled.  
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Mr As premium  did go up substantially, so I can understand why he was concerned. But just 
because his premium  increased, I don't think that means that Advantage treated him 
unfairly. Advantage provided me with information  to show how Mr As premium increased.  
That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr A. But having looked at 
it carefully, Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr A in the same way as it would other 
policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think they calculated  his premiums  reasonably.
When setting premiums,  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
Ref: DRN52894362tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr A thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium.  
But each insurer will have  their own methods of calculating risk. Advantage have told us that 
Mr As change  of car had a bearing  on his premium. When he changed his car, Mr A was 
charged around £60 for the remaining  two months  of his 2016 policy.  That works  out to 
around £30 a month. So if Mr A had his new car from the start of his April 2016  policy,  I think 
his 2017 premium would have cost around  the same amount  as the 2017 premium. The type 
of car insured is important as it can have an important bearing on the cost of a policy. For 
insurers different cars present different risks.  As insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk, I dont think  theres anything wrong with insurers considering whether or not certain  cars 
fall into higher risk groupings. So I cant say Mr A has been singled out or treated differently 
to others  in similar circumstances. 
Mr A said that he again insured his car with Advantage in 2018 and that his premium  was 
under £400.  He said the car insured in 2018 was the same as the one insured in 2017, so he 
questioned why the premium halved. He therefore  thinks Advantage made an error when 
setting his 2017 premium.  But Advantage have said that Mr As 2018  policy  was taken out 
online which  is on Advantages new policy system  which has different rating calculations  and 
is on a different policy scheme. I can understand why Mr A made this point, but insurers 
regularly re-rate the risks they cover. And many  insurers  will do this on a daily basis.  So the 
quotes an insurer provides will vary from day-to-day.  And as insurers rate on numerous  
different factors, a small change in those details can lead to an increase or decrease in 
premiums. I would like to give a few generic examples to illustrate  this point.  It may be the 
case that a particular area had high volumes  of recorded crime (e.g. car thefts) in say 2016.  
So a policyholder resident  in that area taking out insurance for their car in 2017  may be 
charged a higher premium to reflect the higher  risk of keeping a car in a high crime area,  
given the risk of the insured car being stolen is high. But if there is a dramatic  fall in car 
thefts during 2017, its possible that an insurer will re-rate that risk to reflect  the fact that the 
risk of a policyholders car being  stolen in that area has significantly decreased.  That is likely 
to therefore lead to a decrease in premiums  in 2018. Likewise, if a particular model of car 
manufactured between  2016 and 2018  is considered as being very reliable and safe, and 
difficult to break into, an insurer  may rate that as a low risk and charge a lower premium  for a 
policyholder insuring that particular car. But if, for example, the manufacturer announced  that 
a design fault was discovered that meant  it was very easy to break into that particular model,  
then its likely that an insurer would  immediately re-rate that particular cars risk and charge  a 
higher premium for a new policyholder taking out a policy after the announcement.  So, for 
example, a policyholder who owned that model  of car may have paid a premium  of £200 in 
2017. But after the announcement the insurer re-rated that car as a higher risk and when the 
policy renewed in 2018 the premium may have doubled to reflect  the new increased risk.
For the reasons  given  above, Im satisfied  that Advantages  premium  calculation for the April 
2017 policy was reasonable.
Ref: DRN52894363my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5289436