K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mr F says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr F says that he wasnt aware  he had PPI, and that he was shocked to find out he had 
it. But I think Barclays made  it clear that Mr F didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago. I say this because Barclays has provided a copy  of Mr Fs postal credit card 
application  I can see on this that the PPI is presented  as optional, and has been 
selected with a tick. Mr F has then signed the application agreeing  to the information  on 
it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said - including what  hes said about selling his flat to 
pay his credit card if needed,  and that his sister could also have helped him to pay. But the 
PPI couldve prevented Mr F from taking such drastic measures as selling his hoe  and 
while I know that family are often  keen to help out where they can, peoples  circumstances 
can change, and ultimately,  the repayments  were Mr Fs responsibility. So these points dont 
change my decision.
Ref: DRN59889412my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5988941