K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about a loan Uncle Buck provided to Mr M in October 2018. The loan as for 
£400 and was due to be repaid over six instalments.  The highest  repayment was £132.35.
An adjudicator initially reviewed Mr Ms case and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that as this was Mr Ms first loan with Uncle Buck  the information Uncle Buck  
gathered was appropriate and there  was nothing within the checks  it carried out that 
wouldve been of concern  to Uncle Buck. Mr M disagreed, so the case  was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Whilst the case was awaiting an ombudsman review another adjudicator reviewed the case  
to ensure we had everything we needed. This adjudicator wrote to Uncle  Buck explaining  
why he thought the case should be upheld. The adjudicator explained that the information  it 
gathered about  Mr M actually revealed  that the loan he was taking could  not be sustainably 
repaid. Uncle  Buck  disagreed and referred  to the previous adjudicators  view and reiterated 
its points about  the checks  it carried out. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of
time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that
Ref: DRN54603372repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. I dont think Uncle  Buck shouldve 
given Mr M his loan and Ill explain why. 
Uncle Buck  says it carried out adequate  checks on Mr M when he applied for his loan.
This included getting details  of his income and expenditure. It also says it checked his credit 
report. I can see from evidence submitted by Uncle Buck that it did carry out checks  on 
Mr M. However, I think  if Uncle Buck had properly considered Mr Ms financial situation and 
the lending I think  it would  have seen that Mr M was not in a position  to take on this 
borrowing.
I say this because  Mr M was borrowing £400,  which  was due to be repaid over six 
instalments. The information gathered from the credit  checks Uncle Buck  carried  out shows  
that Mr M was having issues  managing his finances.  And I think  if Uncle  Buck had reacted to 
the information it had gathered it wouldnt have given him the loan. I say this because the 
credit checks revealed Mr M had a monthly  commitment of £2,113 on fixed  term accounts. 
Mr M had declared his income  as £1,780, and this income was verified. Given  that Mr M was 
already unable to meet  his current commitments  based on the figures above I think this 
information shouldve  prompted Uncle Buck to obtain a better understanding of Mr Ms 
finances before lending  to him. Because based on the information  available  it was clear  
Mr M was not in a position to take on this loan without struggling  to meet  the repayments. 
Uncle Buck  says that this is a different approach to that taken by the initial  adjudicator. 
Looking at the case it seems that the credit  check information wasnt properly considered at 
the time by this adjudicator. So although  I appreciate its concern, the information relied on is 
not new and lenders are under an obligation to consider  all of the relevant information it has 
before providing  loans.  
Uncle Buck  has also referred to Mr Ms financial and health issues  and that it was not 
informed of them. It also says Mr M mis-stated his expenditure, and even though  he may 
have been having financial difficulties, he repaid the loan early. It also says it couldnt be 
expected to be aware of loans Mr M took out after his one with them.  The main focus here is 
on the information available to Uncle Buck at the time the loan was applied for. This was 
Ref: DRN54603373Mr Ms first loan with Uncle Buck, and it decided to carry out a credit  check and gather 
details of his income  and expenditure. So at the time the loan was applied for it had 
adequate information to see Mr M was struggling  financially.  I dont think these points 
change the fact that the decision to lend to Mr M was wrong and he was not in a position   
quite clearly based on the numbers involved - to sustainably repay any further borrowing. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Mr Ms loan and Uncle  Buck should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr M his loan. Uncle Buck  should:
refund all interest  and charges that Mr M paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  about  the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Uncle  Buck should give
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP 
should pay put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision
before 28 March 2020. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5460337