K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank PLC at the time trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester (Lloyds)  
mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy in 2005 and in 2006. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr T bought  the policy in 2005 sometime after taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy over the phone.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr T for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £53.09 a month  towards Mr Ts mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £3.00 a month. In 2006  Mr T 
applied for a further advance and at the same time applied for another PPI policy  this time 
he applied  in branch and the cost was a further £3.75 and the benefit increased to £68.11.  
Mr T also took additional further advances after 2006 but he didnt take any more PPI. 
At the time,  Mr T was employed as an insurance inspector. He has told us he was entitled to 
six months full sick pay and a death in service payment. He said he had no savings, but he 
would have received a redundancy payment  if he lost his job of at least three months of his 
pay. Mr T has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2001 and Mr T 
took out further advances at various  times  including in 2005 and 2006. 
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ts representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr T wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr T about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr T and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN51201042The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T arranged various further  advances  on his mortgage after mortgage  lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  a regulated mortgage 
contract. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in March 2005  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN51201043General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN51201044-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr T know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Lloyds has been  able to provide the paperwork from the time Mr T took out the PPI and later 
for his further advance  in 2006.  I note that Mr T didnt opt to take out the PPI in relation to his 
original mortgage  in 2001 or in relation to some  of the other further advances he took out. 
But I can see he chose to take the PPI in 2005 and in 2006.
The mortgage offer in 2005 stated that Mr T wasnt required to take out any insurance. A 
payment protection proposal form was completed  separately to take out the cover in both 
2005 and 2006 when  he took out the PPI alongside his further  advances. Mr T has signed 
and dated the forms and completed separate direct debit mandates  to the bank. 
In 2006 the mortgage  offer stated PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage, but that Mr T had 
chosen optional  Insurance. The section about PPI states: Payment Protection Plus covers  
your monthly mortgage payment in the event of accident, sickness or redundancy. You are 
not obliged to take this cover but should you wish to through  C&G,  the monthly cost for the 
term of your mortgage is shown opposite. The cost is set out to be £3.75.
As Mr T was taking  on new financial commitments  each time, I think hed have realised  he 
was choosing the PPI and knew he could  refuse  the policies if he didnt  want  them.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr T knew  the policies were  optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds has said that in 2005  the policy was sold over the phone.  In 2006, the policy  was sold 
in branch. On both occasions Lloyds has said it advised Mr T to buy the cover. Mr T hasnt 
said whether it was an advised sale in 2005 and 2006. Its understandable if he cant 
remember now after such a long time. But from the paperwork I think its likely  that in 2005 
and 2006 the policies  were recommended  to Mr T and these were  advised sales.  I can see 
from the paperwork its likely that Mr T spoke to a representative and discussed  the PPI and 
a tailored recommendation was made.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr T with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policies were appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether either policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr T. It seems Mr T cant remember clearly  what happened  and there is 
no clear record of what the adviser  discussed in relation  to either  policy although there are 
some notes. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a discussion which  took place so 
Ref: DRN51201045long ago as businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely.  I think  its likely the 
adviser had some limited  information about Mr Ts financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr T would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policies did 
not fully meet his needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered 
whether Mr T had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr T given  his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr T, I do think its more likely  than not that the policies were  ultimately  suitable  
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policies.
-Mr T had a need for the policies  it seems likely that Mr Ts ability  to continue to 
meet his mortgage  repayments would have been  put under strain  if he was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay he says he would  have been entitled to.
-Although Mr T says he was financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr T. There 
was nothing about Mr Ts employment or occupation  which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr T has told us 
about a broken ankle he suffered in around 1979 many years  before the sales when 
he was a child. But he hasnt  said this caused him on-going problems and I dont 
think its likely he would have needed extended  time off work because  of it. So, I think 
the policies were still suitable.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policies  would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each 
claim for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr 
Ts circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policies (including: the any 
similar gainful occupation condition, the requirement that Mr T be disabled or 
unemployed for 60 days before  he could  make a claim  and the fact the policies would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policies still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr Ts circumstances,  including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policies 
60-day qualification periods) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean 
the policies could play an important role after those provisions were 
exhausted; and
Ref: DRN51201046The fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home 
and the potential consequences  should  Mr T be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr T sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policies to enable him to understand what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr T was given a broad description of what  the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  his payments if Mr T 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr T would have taken out 
the policies without any sense of what the policies were for and of how much the premium 
might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr T agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr T Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr T all of the information  he needed 
about the policies to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
Ref: DRN51201047way Mr T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr T? To what extent did Mr T suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mr T. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr T 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mr T, I have  found that the policies were  ultimately  
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr T has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr T would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mr T says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr T had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ts circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information about the cost and benefit and limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr T knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told him the exact  premium  at the point Mr T applied  
for the policies. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr T would have been told the cost before 
the policies started  and he paid for the policies for a number of years, so if the costs were  
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Ref: DRN51201048Overall, Im not persuaded Mr T would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr T would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ts expectations about 
what the policies  would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policies actually did  if anything, it 
is more likely than not that the policies actually paid more in the event of a claim than he 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of the cover.  A pre-existing medical  condition  
was defined  as  any condition, injury, illness, disease or sickness  (this includes any 
causes or related  symptoms, even if these occurred before the condition, injury,  
illness, disease or sickness was diagnosed) which  Mr T knew  about,  or should 
reasonably have known about  before the start date of the policy  or which he had 
seen or arranged to see a doctor,  or for which Mr T had received treatment from a 
doctor, during  the 12 months  immediately before the commencement  date. However,  
a claim may be accepted  if Mr T remained symptom  free and had not consulted a 
doctor or received treatment for the condition  for a full 24 months  prior to the claim; 
The 2006 policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr 
T wasnt  a permanent employee;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr T pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policies werent as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. Mr T was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr T told us about  a broken ankle 
when he was a child, I havent seen any evidence  to suggest this was an ongoing  problem. 
Mr T had his broken  ankle  many years before he took out the cover, when he was a child.  I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to the PPI 
in 2005 or in 2006. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policies  out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr T 
Ref: DRN51201049would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr T needed to be totally unable to do his normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr T that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr T would have  received full sick pay for and his statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr T would still have thought  a policies  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to him and would  help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policies  allowed for multiple  claims to be made,  it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Ts sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr T would still have taken  out the policies. The policies were suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr T was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr T 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr T would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr T 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN512010410Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr T compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr T thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2005 and 2006 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr T and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5120104