K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss representative, his daughter Mrs P, complains on his behalf that he was mis-sold two 
whole of life policies by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
In summary,  she says:
He had no need for the policies. 
He was likely to have  been pressured  into taking them soon after his wife passed 
away. 
background
In October  1990, Mr S took out a whole of life policy with a £20,000 sum assured for a 
£45.81 monthly  premium.  
A couple of months later, he took out another policy, virtually identical to the first. The plans 
appear to have been placed in trust. 
At the time Mr S had three children two of whom were grown  up and a 17-year-old with none 
being dependent according to Mrs P. He was also recently widowed  his wife passed  away 
only a few months before he took out the first policy  and his mortgage was paid off 
because his wife had life cover.   
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Given the lack of available evidence he was unable to specifically say why the plans 
had been sold,  but that doesnt  mean HSBC had given  Mr S unsuitable advice. 
He cant say the policies werent  wanted or needed by Mr S.  
Its possible Mr S wanted to leave behind a lump sum to his beneficiary  and or pay 
for his funeral,  or even  pay towards a potential  Inheritance Tax (IHT)  liability  that 
might arise. But its not clear as he doesnt  know what  Mr Ss assets were like in 
1990. 
Alternatively Mr S didnt need another reason  if he just wanted to leave a lump sum 
to his family. 
It might seem  a little odd that two identical policies were  taken out within a short 
space of time. But hes had the policies for nearly 29 years, if he didnt want  them  or 
was pressured  into having them he wouldve cancelled at least one of the policies. 
In 2007 when the direct debits were cancelled  they were reinstated by Mr S shortly 
thereafter, which suggests that he valued  the cover  being provided and wanted to 
keep the policies going. 
In 2009 enquiries  were also made  about  the trust status  of the plans, and a 
beneficiary was added. This again  supports  the view that the policies were taken out 
for the benefit  of his chosen beneficiaries  and he wanted to keep them  going.   
On the basis that advice was provided by HSBC  and that this wasnt  an execution 
only sale  hes unable  to say that it has done  anything wrong. 
Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, she said:
Mr S had no dependent  children and the mortgage was repaid following the death of 
his wife.  There was just no need. 
Ref: DRN59013512Mr S was vulnerable  having lost his wife a couple of months earlier  and barely had 
any time to grieve or come to terms with his loss.
HSBC didnt act with the appropriate  level of care when dealing with a vulnerable  
person. It shouldve provided  additional  care and support  but didnt.  
The policies were  sold within a very short space of time and for no apparent reason, 
which shows that Mr S wasnt treated in the way he shouldve  been.
HSBC shouldve encouraged Mr S to think about things and take his time, because 
he was not ill at that time and had no health  issues.
Its not clear why the policies were placed  in trust. If the policies were sold for funeral 
expenses surely  they were oversold. And the figures for any IHT just dont add up. 
The reason  for the cancellation  and reinstatement of the policies was because  Mr S 
truly believed no funds would be returned,  and he didnt know he could complain.
The policies were  definitely not sold on an execution only basis.  
The payment  of the premiums have exceeded  the amount  of cover and arent 
valuable cover. 
Our adjudicator having considered the points from Mrs P wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
The plans were  most likely put in trust to ensure the benefits were paid out to the 
designated beneficiaries,  after Mr Ss death,  rather than to his estate. 
If the plans werent set up in trust theyd form a part of Mr Ss estate and would 
potentially be subject  to IHT liability. 
The cover  couldnt have just been  for funeral costs. But its likely it was to provide 
funeral cover and any additional money  to the beneficiaries, like a legacy.  
Whilst Mr S may be disappointed with the outcome hes unable to say HSBC has 
done anything  wrong. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs P says, Im unable to say 
that HSBC has done  anything wrong in this instance. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this matter. 
Mrs P has provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she and Mr S wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs P and HSBC,  and reach what  I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
Ref: DRN59013513In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
 
Even if Mrs P is right with her complaint  which on balance I dont think she is  Ive seen 
no supporting evidence that would  enable to safely say that HSBC has done  something 
wrong. 
Its difficult to know  if Mr S in fact received any advice in relation to these policies as there is 
no evidence it was. Mrs P is adamant that he did and Im prepared to look at this on the 
basis that advice  was given as Ive not seen any evidence to the contrary and HSBC  hasnt  
argued its case on the basis advice wasnt given.  
If these were execution only sales, in other words the policies were sold without  any financial 
advice from HSBC Mr S would be solely responsible for ensuring the policies were suitable 
for his needs  at the time.  
On the face of the limited  evidence, and on balance, despite  what Mrs P says, I think  its 
more likely than not Mr S took out the policies so that he could leave  his family a lump  sum 
upon his death. 
That said Mr S may (or may not) have  intended  for some of this money  to be used to pay for 
any funeral costs or any outstanding IHT liability that might arise.  Theres  nothing to say this 
money couldnt have  been used for these purposes  in addition to leaving  lumps  sums to his 
chosen beneficiaries,  so his family  wouldnt have to use their own funds.   
This is probably why the policies were placed in trust, so that the proceeds  would be ring 
fenced from his estate, and any potential IHT liability that might  arise. So that a potentially 
larger tax free lump  sum could be paid rather than what was left after paying  any taxes. Its 
unlikely there was any other reason  for leaving money in trust in this way. 
I appreciate the points  Mrs P makes about  Mr S being potentially vulnerable, having lost his 
wife only a couple of months  earlier, and HSBC not doing more  to help him. I understand 
exactly where shes coming from and shes entitled to raise  these questions.  
But I also think its probably the case that having experienced the sad death  of his wife, and 
the impact this had on his family  and not having  to worry about paying  the mortgage  at this 
difficult time  probably made Mr S consider doing something similar for his family for when 
he passed away to ease any financial burdens  they might have to endure. 
I understand that no amount of money  can replace a lost parent but having  some money can 
make dealing with the grief and life afterwards a little easier. 
So rather  than see the timing as an issue, as Mrs P does, I think  it was probably just the time 
Mr S wanted  to get things sorted,  so that he could  leave money behind to his chosen family 
members upon his death. And do so in trust,  so as to avoid any potential IHT deductions.    
On balance Im satisfied that regardless  of whether or not he had dependent  children  he still 
wanted to leave a little more to his family. There was nothing  preventing  him from doing this 
especially as the mortgage had been  paid off. 
Ref: DRN59013514I also appreciate that whole of life policies might  appeal more  to people with young 
dependent children, or an existing debt such as a loan or potential  IHT liability.  But that 
doesnt mean people cant choose to have it for their own purposes,  much like the one Ive 
outlined above.  
Im also mindful of Mr S maintaining the policies for over 29 years  and when the payments 
had stopped they were started  again,  and thereafter  Mr S added  another  beneficiary  to the 
trust. These are not generally the actions of man who was pressured  into taking out policies 
that he didnt want.   
So in the circumstances Im unable to say the policies werent something Mr S didnt want  or 
need or that he was pressured  into taking  them  out when he was vulnerable.  
I appreciate Mr S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded HSBC did anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr S 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5901351