K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC declined a credit card payment when he was 
abroad. And hes unhappy it didnt make  a payment to his account when he asked  it to.
background
In April 2019 Mr L made a trip abroad. He says he made Barclays  aware of this trip before 
he went. But on the last day his credit  card was declined when he tried to pay for a family 
meal. He found this very embarrassing. And it caused him a great deal of stress which isnt 
good for his health. He says he spent  hours  on the phone  to Barclays  trying  to resolve the 
situation when  he got home. And hes unhappy with the service  he received.   
Barclays explained the transaction was declined because his card had been  blocked. They  
said this was because  a payment due on the account  had been  missed. But Mr L says hed 
requested a direct debit  to be set up to make  this payment, and is unhappy that it wasnt  
processed. He says that when he spoke  to Barclays about the problem with his card he also 
asked its advisor to make a payment to his account  then,  but this wasnt  done either.
Barclays said that the direct debit  had been arranged in line with Mr Ls request. But it did 
acknowledge that hed received some poor service after this. It credited his account  with £50 
to recognise this fact, and a further  £50 to apologise  for the embarrassment  hed 
experienced when his card was declined. It also refunded  the £12 late payment fee he 
incurred. 
Mr L was unhappy  with this response. He feels it would be fairer for Barclays  to pay him in 
the region of £500 - £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced here. So 
he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt that Barclays should  pay Mr L a further £100 compensation, in addition  
to the £100 it has already given him. He felt that the poor service Barclays  had provided had 
led to Mr Ls card being blocked, and that this could have  been avoided if hed been given 
the correct information by its advisors.  
Both Mr L and Barclays disagree  with this view. Mr L feels Barclays  should  pay him a higher 
amount of compensation to put things right. But Barclays feel that the compensation it has 
already paid him is sufficient to resolve this complaint. So the case has been passed to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr L and Barclays will both be 
disappointed, but I think the compensation proposed  by our investigator is fair to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
 
Barclays has explained that Mr Ls card transaction was declined because  his account was 5 
days overdue for payment. I can see Mr L attempted this transaction  on 23 April 2019,  and a 
payment had been due on his account  by 16 April 2019 but wasnt  made. So Im satisfied 
Barclays acted in line with its usual process  here when it blocked his card.  And I think  it was 
reasonable that it declined this transaction. 
Ref: DRN51798232However, as its already  admitted,  it made  some errors  before  this point. And I think these 
errors contributed to this payment being overdue, and therefore the difficulties Mr L 
experienced with his card.
On 4 April 2019  Mr L asked Barclays to set up a direct debit to make monthly payments to 
his account. Barclays  say they set it up correctly and let Mr L know  at the time that it 
wouldnt be done in time for that month and hed need to make  a manual payment to his 
account on or before 16 April 2019. Ive listened  to the call and I can hear that Mr L was told 
this. Barclays has also told us it sent him a letter confirming  the details of his direct debit.
Mr L called  Barclays again  on 16 April 2019. He was upset hed received a text message  
advising that his credit card payment was due, and that if it wasnt  made he could incur  a 
fee. Barclays have  explained he received this message because his account was set up to 
receive same day payment alerts. So I dont think Barclays  made  an error or acted unfairly 
when they sent Mr L this message  though  I appreciate  it caused  him distress. I also 
understand Barclays have now stopped these alerts  from being sent to him at his request. 
So Im satisfied this issue  has been resolved. 
However when he spoke to Barclays about this message an advisor incorrectly  told Mr L that 
his direct debit would be taken that day. And another advisor he spoke to later also failed to 
check that the direct debit  was in place. 
Had the advisors checked the details of Mr Ls direct debit  properly at this time they could 
have advised  him that it wasnt due to start until the following  month. And they could have let 
him know he needed to make a payment to the account that day to prevent a late payment 
fee from being applied. So I think its reasonable that Barclays  should pay him compensation 
to apologise for this, and the further difficulties he then experienced. Barclays  has already 
paid Mr L £100  compensation and refunded the £12 late payment charge he incurred. But I 
agree with our investigator that it would be reasonable for it to pay him an additional £100 
compensation. 
I appreciate Barclays point that Mr L had previously been told that hed need to make  a 
payment by 16 April 2019. But I think its reasonable that when he spoke  to it that day he 
believed his direct  debit was already operative, as this was the information he was given by 
its advisors.
Mr L feels that the trouble and upset he experienced here warrants  a higher award of 
compensation. But I think that £200 compensation and the refund of the late payment charge 
is fair in the circumstances. And when making  this award I have  also taken into account  the 
service he received from Barclays after this happened. Mr L spoke to a number of different 
advisors to clarify the problems with his card, and having listened  to a series  of these calls I 
can hear that this was very frustrating for him. I understand he was also promised call backs 
on several occasions that he didnt receive.  Whilst I agree  Barclays  didnt provide the best 
level of service here, it did try to ring him back on at least one occasion. And I can also hear 
that on several calls Mr L requested to speak to another advisor  himself  as he preferred to 
deal with someone based in the UK.
Mr L says he asked  Barclays  to make a payment to his account on one of these phone calls 
but it didnt action this request. Barclays havent  been able to trace this request, and I cant  
hear that it was made on any of the calls they have been able to share recordings of. So 
whilst I appreciate Mr L is also frustrated about  this, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Barclays to compensate him further  for this point as I cant  be certain what happened.
Ref: DRN51798233my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid Mr L £100 
compensation and refunded a late payment fee of £12. I require it to pay Mr L a further £100  
compensation to apologise for the poor service  he received here.  This will take the total 
compensation paid to £200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5179823