K820x#14complaint
Mrs H and Ms A say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs H and Ms A bought  the policy in 2006 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  The mortgage  Mrs H and Ms A took out 
was a regulated  one.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs H and Ms A for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £1,243.16 a month  on a 60:40 
share basis towards Mrs H and Ms As mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim. 
At the time,  it cost £73.84 a month. 
At the time of the sale, Mrs H was employed as a registered nurse. She has told us she was 
entitled to at least 6 months sick pay, a redundancy payment and Death-In-Service  benefits 
from her employer. Mrs H has said she had suffered from some  health problems before the 
policy was taken out. 
Ms A was employed as a clinical support worker. She has told us she was entitled  to at least  
6 months sick pay, a redundancy payment and Death-In-Service  benefits from her employer.  
She has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs H and Ms As representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs H and Ms As representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed 
Mrs H and Ms A wouldnt have taken out the policy  and the complaint should be 
upheld. Mrs H and Ms As representative  believes  there  to be no evidence to rebut  
that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs H and Ms A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs H and Ms A and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN51690292The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs H and Ms A received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs H and Ms A disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs H and Ms As. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs H and Ms As 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN51690293a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mrs H and Ms As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs H and Ms A with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN51690294-Whether BoS gave  Mrs H and Ms A sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mrs H and Ms A, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Mrs H and Ms A suffered loss or damage  and what  I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and Ms A 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H and Ms As complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mrs H and Ms A know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt got copies  of all Mrs H and Ms As paperwork  from the time of the sale.  Thats  
not altogether  surprising  as businesses arent required  to keep such  documents  for this 
length of time. But Ive seen a copy of Mrs H and Mrs As mortgage offer which clearly  
shows PPI as an optional  product  that they didnt need to take. And Ive also seen  a letter  
sent to them  after their meeting with the BoS adviser which thanks them  for choosing  to take 
out the PPI policy.  Theres also a copy of a demands and needs statement the adviser 
completed which I think makes it reasonably clear that the PPI policy being recommended is 
optional.
So, taking everything  into account  including  what I know  more  generally about BoS normal 
sales process for branch mortgage PPI sales - I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs H and Ms A knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure. But I can understand why they might not recall this now.
did BoS provide  advice?
This was a branch sale where I can see from the paperwork provided that BoS advised 
Mrs H and Ms A to take out the PPI policy. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs H and Ms A with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs H and Ms A. 
The adviser had information about  some of Mrs H and Ms As financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  But although a demands and needs statement was 
completed to try and establish whether Mrs H and Ms A had a need  for the policy   by 
asking questions about wider circumstances such as any health issues and existing means   
I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because the questions 
Ref: DRN51690295BoS recorded as having been answered by Mrs H and Ms A on the statement dont fully 
cover all the various limitations  and exclusions in the policy  which might have affected their 
ability to make a successful claim on it.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs H and Ms A given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs H and Ms A, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs H and Ms A met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs H and Ms A had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs H and Ms As 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if one of them  was not working for an extended period  of time  even allowing 
for the benefits  they say they would have been entitled to from their employers.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs H and Ms A.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs H and Ms A. 
There was nothing  about Mrs H and Ms As employments or occupations  which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical 
conditions, Mrs H has told us about  the medical conditions  she suffered before taking 
out the policy. But I dont think Ive seen  anything to show  these medical conditions 
would have made the policy unsuitable  for Mrs H and Ms A because  they were  
particularly likely  to be the cause of any claims Mrs H made under the policy  being 
unsuccessful under the relevant  limitations and exclusions in the policy. I think 
Mrs H and Ms A could still have found  the policy of benefit to them,  notwithstanding  
the exclusions and limitations relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs H and Ms A be disabled  or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mrs H and Ms As circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs H and Ms A be unable to make  
the repayments on loans secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs H and Ms A sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN51690296the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs H and Ms A were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs H or Mrs A were unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely 
Mrs H and Ms A would have taken  out the policy without any sense  of what the policy was 
for and of how much the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs H and Ms A agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H and Ms A Im not persuaded 
BoS did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mrs H and Ms A all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs H and Ms As representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mrs H and Ms As. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs H and Ms As representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs H and Ms A about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs H and Ms As representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs H and Ms A have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs H and Ms A? To what extent did 
Mrs H and Ms A suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN51690297Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mrs H and Ms A. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mrs H and Ms A suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mrs H and Ms A would  have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs H and Ms A, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs H and Ms A have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if BoS had explained things 
properly, Mrs H and Ms A would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mrs H and Ms A say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs H and Ms A had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs H and Ms As circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs H and Ms A knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I dont think I can be sure that BoS told them the exact  premium  at 
the point they applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mrs H and Ms A would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for some time 
after the sale, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point of 
sale, its possible they might have raised that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs H and Ms A would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, I dont  think I can be sure that BoS made clear exactly  what  Mrs H and Ms A 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely 
Mrs H and Ms As expectations  about  what the policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the 
policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in 
Ref: DRN51690298the event of a claim than they would have  expected  as the cover  provided exceeded their 
standard monthly mortgage repayment  at the start of the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs H and Ms A thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
In certain circumstances, the policy excluded claims  relating to medical conditions 
that Mrs H or Ms A knew about  or ought  to have known about before the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mrs H or Ms A werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs H or Ms A be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs H and Ms A pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H and Ms A from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs H and Ms As circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were both eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  could  have proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mrs H or Ms A were  likely  to have  been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  they were both in permanent employment. And although Mrs H says she had 
some pre-existing  medical  conditions at the time they took out the policy,  I dont think these 
conditions would have  meant that the policy wouldnt have been of benefit  to them. I still 
think they had some good reasons  to take the policy out and wouldnt have been deterred 
from doing so by the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mrs H and Ms A might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected 
to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mrs H and Ms A from taking out the policy, Mrs H and Ms A, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mrs H and Ms A had known  they could only claim for disability  if they were  unable to do 
both their job and any paid work they might reasonably become qualified for, it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept it may have given  
them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned 
given that if they were  unable (through  disability) to carry on their own occupation the 
Ref: DRN51690299chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, 
be limited.
BoS may not have told Mrs H and Ms A that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than they would  have received full sick pay for. And their 
entitlement to redundancy is also likely to have  been lower than this.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs H and Ms A would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve their sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs H and Ms A would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if one of them  was made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mrs H and Ms A would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs H and Ms As representative  says the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs H and Ms A would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account 
Mrs H and Ms As circumstances as detailed  above,  I consider  it reasonable  to conclude the 
position Mrs H and Ms A found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position 
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mrs H and Ms A believe the presumption  may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN516902910Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H and Ms A in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs H and Ms A compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs H and Ms A think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs H and Ms A, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2006  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs H and Ms As representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs H and Ms A and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs H and Ms A in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169029