K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  taken out in 2003,  
2008 and 2009. Mr and Mrs S say Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold them  the MPPI.
background
I sent the parties my provisional decision  dated  5 March 2019.  I said that before I made my 
final decision, Id consider  anything else the parties  wanted to give me.
Mr and Mrs S havent provided me with any further  information to consider.
Barclays has clarified that it is offering to pay Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium in respect  of all three sales (2003, 2008  
and 2009), and not just 2003.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive reached substantially the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Ive explained my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the MPPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Barclays has sent us paperwork from the time the MPPI was sold,  from which Im 
satisfied that the MPPI wouldve been  presented as optional. And I havent seen enough 
other evidence to persuade me the MPPI wasnt otherwise presented  as optional. So 
overall I think  Barclays made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and that they chose  to take it out.
Barclays recommended the MPPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. I appreciate  Mr S has said he suffered from depression, and the MPPI 
wouldnt cover  him for a pre-existing condition. But I can see from the paperwork that at 
the time Mr S appears to have been asked the question, Have you consulted a doctor, 
received treatment or are receiving treatment  for any medical condition suffered during 
the last twelve  months?  to which  Mr S appears  to have answered No. I also note that 
in previous correspondence  with us Mr S has said he didnt have any health problems at 
the time. So it seems  to me that this may not have  been  a significant issue for him at the 
time, which may explain why he didnt  tell Barclays about it at the time. In any event, it 
doesnt look like Mr S was affected by any of the other  exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI 
cover and it seems that the cover was a sensible precaution. So I dont think  I can say it 
was wrong of Barclays to recommend  the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr and Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve  been. But Mr and Mrs S chose to take it out to cover Mr S  so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it could have been useful for them if 
Ref: DRN58537272something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to 
Mr and Mrs S.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit  share  that was above 50% of the MPPI premium  and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said. But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my conclusion.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mr and Mrs S any 
extra interest they paid because of that. 
Barclays should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Barclays  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax
my final decision
The MPPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5853727