K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs K bought the policy in connection with a credit card that she took out in 1996.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mrs K aware  the PPI was optional and she chose to
take it. Mrs K says PPI wasnt discussed when she took out the credit card, and that 
she doesnt remember it being offered to her. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs K and
Lloyds when the policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are no
longer available. Thats not surprising  as its many years since  the policy was sold.
But from what we know about Lloyds sales processes in 1996, Mrs K wouldve had 
to actively select the PPI during the credit  card application process.  I think  its unlikely 
that Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mrs Ks account if she hadnt chosen  to take it. 
Although I accept it is possible PPI wasnt discussed, it is equally likely it was  
although I can understand why Mrs K may no longer remember this.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mrs K, but it doesnt  look as 
if it was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs K would have been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ref: DRN59720002my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5972000