K820x#14background
Mr S and Mrs W complain  that Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy in November 2006.
background
Mr S and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Yorkshire and this started in September  2003. 
They also applied for further advances on this mortgage that started  in November 2003, 
November 2005  and again  in August  2006. For the further  advances  they took out in 
November 2003  and in August 2006, they also added MPPI  policies in both of their names. 
Mr S and Mrs W have  said that they have  no complaints about  the MPPI policies taken out in 
November 2003  and August 2006.
Mr S and Mrs W are complaining only about  two monthly premium MPPI policies that they 
took out with a new mortgage that they applied for in November 2006.  They  applied  for this 
mortgage and the MPPI  policies in a meeting  with an advisor  from Yorkshire. They believe 
Yorkshire mis-sold these  policies to them. They say MPPI was not something they wanted or 
requested at this point.  
Our adjudicator upheld  their complaint. She concluded that Yorkshire hadnt shown that Mr S 
and Mrs W had been given a fair choice whether to have the policies in November 2006.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October  2018  where I didnt uphold  Mr S and Mrs Ws 
complaint. I concluded  that from the information  I had seen, they were more  likely than not 
given a choice  to have the MPPI  policies  and chose to have them, and the policies were  
suitable for them. 
I recently issued a second provisional  decision on 19th March 2019,  where  I concluded again 
that I was minded to not uphold Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint. 
I do not intend to repeat  my provisional decision in full here,  but in summary, I found:
Mr S and Mrs W were  more likely  than not given a choice to have the MPPI policies. I 
also concluded the policies were suitable  for them.
I responded to Mr S and Mrs Ws comments provided by them in response  to the first 
provisional decision.
Mr S and Mrs W raised  concerns about the information used and the timeline regarding  
the sale of PPI policies to them.  I clarified  this and gave further  information  about what I 
had found using the information provided  by both parties.
I also gave further clarity on what I had seen within the sales  documentation that I had 
placed weight  on to reach  my conclusion that that they were  given  a choice to have the 
policies within the sale in 2006.  This includes a statement of facts  document  and a 
welcome letter.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold their complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52576632Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider  on this occasion.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decisions sent on 25 October 2018 and 19 March 2019. So I 
conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do not uphold Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint and I do not make any 
award against Yorkshire Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5257663