K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited unfairly avoided his home  insurance  
policy and refused to pay his claim.
Mr C has been represented in this claim and complaint by two different representatives.  For 
simplicity Ive generally referred  to their actions as being  those  of Mr C. In places, where  
necessary, I refer to a former representative as Mr Cs friend and former representative.
background
In February 2020  I issued  a provisional decision for this complaint.  In I explained why I didnt 
intend to require Admiral to reinstate  Mr Cs policy, pay his claim or any compensation. I said 
why I didnt plan to interfere with its decision to recover  its costs or to make it do anything  
differently. 
I also asked Mr C and Admiral if they had any further information for me to consider before I 
came to a final decision. Admiral didnt provide anything. Mr C responded with a range of 
points and information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C provided  a detailed  response to my provisional  decision.  He also provided  some 
comments on the questions asked by the price comparison website.  I havent  responded 
here to every point  he made. Instead  Ive just focused on what I consider to be key or 
significant. But I would like to reassure Mr C that I have considered everything he has said 
and all the information he provided.  
In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr C told Admiral, during that time, hed been  staying  with his friend and former 
representative at Property  C. He said that had been  for health reasons. His friend 
confirmed this. Admiral then discovered  Mr C owned  another property, Property B.
Mr C says what I said is factually incorrect. He says Admiral  knew  about Property B from a 
recent motor insurance policy. He also says he was open about his ownership of it from 
earlier in the claim. I accept I made  a mistake  here.  I apologise for that. I also said:  
Admiral also says Mr C took steps,  during the claim,  to avoid it finding out about 
Property B. It feels thats why he gave misleading information about  his whereabouts 
in the weeks before the leak was discovered.  Based on the information Ive seen  
Admirals being  fair when  it says that.
Whilst Admiral  may have known about  Property  B I still think its fair to say Mr C took steps 
to stop it finding  out about his use of it  including how much time he spent there. Admiral 
says Mr C and his friend colluded to falsely  claim  hed been staying at that friends house. 
Having considered the new information provided  I still think  thats a fair and reasonable 
conclusion for Admiral to come to. It was still misleading information. It has a very similar 
Ref: DRN58635322impact on my consideration  of the complaint.  And I still feel its fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on the fraud term to recover its costs from Mr C.   
 
Mr C says information given to price comparison websites doesnt form part of the contract  
of insurance. He points  out that his policy documents  dont state  Property A has to be his 
permanent main residence. 
In my provisional decision I referred to the relevant  legislation - Consumer  Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets out remedies for insurers 
when a consumer  has made a misrepresentation before a contract of insurance is entered in 
to or when one is varied. I dont agree theres  a requirement for inaccurate  information to be 
directly referred to in policy terms or policy documents for there  to be a misrepresentation  
or for an insurer to use one of the available  remedies.
Admirals shown it relied on the information  Mr C provided to weigh up the risk of insuring his 
property. Its shown that if he hadnt  entered  permanent main residence  it would have  
offered cover on different terms. As Ive explained  in my provisional  decision this means it 
was a qualifying misrepresentation as set out by CIDRA. And that then allows an insurer  to 
take certain set remedies   including, in certain  circumstances,  avoiding  a policy.
However, there wouldnt be a misrepresentation if Property A was Mr Cs permanent  main 
residence. Hes says its unreasonable  for Admiral to say it wasnt.  Ive considered all the 
latest information hes provided to support what he says.   This includes information on his 
health, the authorities and providers he was registered with at Property A, explanations of 
Property B as a workplace, the hostility of his neighbours,  statements from individuals and 
more. 
I provided an outline, in my provisional  decision,  as to why I wasnt  persuaded Property A 
was Mr Cs permanent main residence. The latest  information hasnt  changed my mind. So 
having considered everything I still think Admirals decision to avoid the policy and refuse the 
claim was a reasonable one  and made in line with CIDRA.
Mr Cs referred  to Admiral knowing about  him owning  two properties. Hes said he wasnt  
asked if he owned  any other property when  taking out the insurance. But the issue isnt his 
ownership of two properties or Admirals knowledge  of that. Instead its the information he 
provided when  taking out the policy  that he answered it was his permanent main residence  
and Admiral offered  cover  on that basis.   
Mr Cs provided  points  and information relating to the unoccupancy exclusion in his policy. 
Admiral had also relied on that term to refuse  his claim. I explained in my provisional  
decision that I hadnt considered if it was fair for it to do that. I said that was because even if 
I thought it wasnt  it wouldnt change the outcome of the complaint.  Thats  because  Id 
already said Admiral can, in line with CIDRA, fairly  avoid the policy and refuse the claim.  
So it doesnt  make  a difference, to the outcome of this complaint, whether or not Mr C 
breached the unoccupancy term. Admiral can fairly avoid the policy and refuse  the claim 
anyway. Because  of that I havent  responded here to Mr Cs latest points about the 
unoccupancy term in the policy. 
Ive considered everything provided  by Mr C in response to my provisional decision.  But I still 
cant say Admiral was unfair  or unreasonable to avoid his policy,  refuse his claim and try to 
recover its costs.
Ref: DRN58635323my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Admiral  Insurance Company Limited reinstate 
Mr Cs policy,  pay his claim or any compensation. Im not interfering with its decision to 
recover its costs or requiring it to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN58635324PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr C complains Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  unfairly avoided his home insurance policy  and 
refused to pay his claim.
Mr C has been represented  in this claim and complaint by two different representatives. For simplicity 
Ive generally referred  to their actions as being those of Mr C. In places, where  necessary, I refer to a 
former representative as Mr Cs friend and former representative.
background
In June 2015  Mr C took out an Admiral home insurance  policy. He used a price comparison website. 
He was then taken to Admirals own website where  he completed the purchase. In February  2016 
there was an escape of water at his property. 
He claimed for the damage.  But Admiral refused to pay. Instead it avoided his policy (treating  it as 
though it never existed) back to June  2015.  Admiral  has given two reasons  for doing  this. It says Mr C 
misrepresented his occupation of the property  when  he took out the policy. Admiral  also says hes 
breached a fraud term found in the policy. Its using that term to recover its claim  investigation costs 
from Mr C - about £25,000. Admiral also says Mr C was in breach of an unoccupancy term in the 
policy. So, even without the avoidance of the cover,  it wouldnt need to pay the claim. 
Mr C complained to Admiral but it didnt change its position. It offered him £100 compensation to 
recognise any unnecessary distress and inconvenience it had caused. Mr C wasnt satisfied.  He 
wants the policy reinstated  and his claim  paid. He doesnt  want Admiral to recover its costs from him. 
Hed also like compensation for distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Our Investigator said it was unfair for Admiral to avoid the policy  for misrepresentation. She said it 
should be reinstated. But she felt Admirals  decision to refuse the claim,  for not complying  with the 
unoccupancy term, was reasonable. She recommended  that it pay Mr C £500 compensation. Neither 
Mr C nor Admiral accepted her findings. So the complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
There is three properties involved in the consideration of this complaint. The one the avoided policy 
was taken  out to cover. I call that Property A. Another belonging to Mr C  Property B. Theres the 
home of his friend and former representative - Property C.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to require  Admiral to reinstate  the 
policy, pay the claim or do anything differently.
Mr Cs provided  a range  of complaint points. He and Admiral have  provided a lot of information. I 
havent referred to every piece or addressed  every point in this provisional  decision. Instead  Ive 
focused on the main  issues and key information. But Id like to assure  Mr C and Admiral that Ive 
considered everything  thats been provided. 
Theres a lot to this claim and the complaint.  But the gist of it is as follows. Mr C reported water 
damage at Property  A to Admiral. The leak, due to the extent of the damage, was thought to have 
been ongoing  for a week or two. Mr C told Admiral, during that time, hed been staying with his friend 
and former representative at Property C. He said that had been for health reasons. His friend 
confirmed this. Admiral then discovered Mr C owned  another  property, Property B. 
After further  enquiries  Admiral said it didnt  think Mr C had been staying with his friend. It said they 
had colluded  to deliberately  misrepresent facts  relevant  to the claim. It said that meant hed breached 
Ref: DRN58635325a fraud condition in the policy. Thats one of its reasons  for avoiding the policy,  not paying  the claim 
and recovering its costs  from Mr C.
Admiral also says Mr C, when taking out the policy, deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his use 
of Property A. Thats its second reason for avoiding  the policy and refusing the claim.
Admiral also feels Mr C breached an unoccupancy exclusion  in the policy. Essentially this sets out 
how frequently the property needs to be occupied or lived in over a period.  If this isnt met the policy 
says damage or loss wont be covered. 
My current position is that Admiral can fairly avoid the policy and refuse the claim for 
misrepresentation. l dont intend to interfere with its decision to recover its costs from Mr C. And I 
wont be requiring it to pay him any compensation or do anything differently.  
misrepresentation - avoiding  the policy and refusing the claim
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying  misrepresentation has been 
made in line with the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). I 
think Mr C made  a qualifying misrepresentation.  Admirals  shown it was a deliberate or reckless one. 
So its decision to avoid his policy and refuse his claim was fair and reasonable and made in line with 
CIDRA. 
When taking out the insurance the price comparision website asked Mr C various questions   
including is this your main  residence?. A drop down list of available responses was provided. These 
were Permanent main  residence,  Weekend  only, Weekday only, Holiday home, Unoccupied.
Mr C selected Permanent main residence . Admiral says this was incorrect  a misrepresentation.  It 
says Property B was his main residence. Mr C denies this and says Property A was. 
So Ive first considered  if Mr C made a misrepresentation  with this. It seems to me that he did. 
Property A wasnt his permanent main residence  at the time - and neither  did he intend  it to be in the 
near future when the cover  started. 
Theres a lot of information  about Mr Cs residence and occupation of the two properties   including  
council tax, phone, utility, insurance, bank records and so on. Some  of it supports Property A being  
his permanent main  residence  some of it doesnt. Im not going to comment  on each and every 
piece here.  But Ive considered it all. 
Ive thought about what Mr Cs said about Property A being  his permanent main residence. But I find 
Admirals position, that it wasnt,  more  persuaisive.  I explain further  on about the inconsistancy  in his 
account of his whereabouts  in the weeks before he made the claim   and his response when Admiral  
asked him about this.
The information I find the most reliable and persuaisive  includes mobile phone usuage  location  data, 
water usuage figures for the properties and the accounts of Mr Cs presence from various neighbours 
of Property A. 
Location data for Mr Cs mobile phone has been provided  for mid-late November  2015 to January  
2016. Admiral  says this shows  he spent  more  than 55 per cent of his time at Property B during that 
period. Having looked  at the location data the 55 per cent estimate seems  reasonable.
The phone location data only covers a specific period. And I accept  Mr Cs location isnt necessarily 
always the same as his phones. But it gives  a good indication of his likely whereabouts during the 
specific time and wider  term usage of Properties  A and B.
Mr Cs said he had a second  phone. So the first phone was left at Property B. But Im not persuaded 
by this. This was only mentioned months after the phone location  data was produced by Admiral. 
Ref: DRN58635326Mr C hasnt provided anything  to support  its existance. And the location data doesnt just show the 
physical location  of the phone. It shows where  the phone was when calls were made  and received or 
data used. Its reasonable  to assume Mr C was with the phone during those calls.   
The phone data also broadly matches what neighbours at Property A have said about  Mr Cs pattern  
of occupation. The reasonably low usage shown by the water account also supports Mr Cs limited 
use of the property. So from what Ive seen Admirals  been fair when its said Property A wasnt 
Mr Cs permanent  main residence. 
I accept that time spent at a property isnt the only consideration for permanent  main  residence. But I 
havent seen enough to make me think, that despite Mr C spending the majority of his time at Property 
B, Property  A was actually his permanent main residence. 
So I dont think Mr C did occupy Property A as his permanent main  residence from June 2015. It 
doesnt look like he intended to do so soon after taking out the cover.  If he had I think he would have 
probably done  so by the time of the escape of water. That was about six months into the 12 month 
policy. I think  it was more  accurantly a sort of second  home rather than his main one. That seems to 
have been Property B. So Mr C did make a misrepresentation when he said Property A was his 
permanent main residence.
But for Admiral to take any action, like avoiding Mr Cs policy, it needs to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly, Mr C must have  failed to take 
reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a few things  to be considered  when deciding if a consumer took reasonable care.  
One is how specific and clear were the questions asked. Another is any relevant  explanatory material.  
Ive already provided the question  Mr C was asked. The question itself is clear and specific.  I think  a 
reasonable consumer would understand it. But Mr C didnt have a free choice of answer.  He could  
only choose  from a set list. So Ive considered if he took reasonable care when  selecting from it.
A guidance note for the question said only If the property is permanently unoccupied  when the policy  
begins and will continue to be for some time after, please select Unoccupied and continue. Mr C 
was spending some  time at the property so I can understand why he might not select  unoccupied. 
Its difficult to know exactly what his usage of Property A was. But based on the range of information  
Ive seen it seems to have been  along  the following  lines:
25% of his time at Property  A  the vast majority of the remaining time at Property B.
Occupation pattern  being  fairly random and inconsistent
Some weekends spent at the property  but not the majority  and not in any set pattern.
Some mid-week  single night stays 
Gaps between times at the property  varying from 2-3 days to a fortnight.
The property having been largely  refurbished  in recent  years  with some work still to do  
including a W/C and laying  of carpets. 
Mr C should have  realised  he didnt occupy Property A as his Permanent main residence.  So 
considering the circumstances, including  the question asked, when saying it was he didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
But for there to be a qualifying misrepresentation,  in line with CIDRA, Admiral  also needs to show  
that without  the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered  cover - or would have only done so on 
different terms.  So Ive considered what would have happened if Mr C had given Admiral an accurate  
description of his usage  of Property A.
Admiral says, based on my understanding of Mr Cs use of Property A, it would have offered cover  
with the property categorised  as a holiday home. It says this would have increased  the premium by 
Ref: DRN5863532730%. The excess would have been  £500 rather than £100. A holiday home  unoccupancy 
endorsement would have been applied. Ive seen underwriting information that supports this.  
So cover  would  have been offered  but on different terms. So there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. But for Admiral to avoid the policy and refuse the claim, in line with CIDRA, it 
needs to show the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
To do that Admiral has to show Mr C knew the information he provided  was untrue or misleading  or 
that he didnt care whether  it was. It says the available information shows Mr C was using two 
properties  and that he spent the majority  of his time at Property B. Admiral says he would have 
been aware  of that when taking out the policy. Based  on that I think its reasonable to say Mr C 
probably knew it was untrue or misleading  to say Property A was his permanent main residence  or 
that he didnt care if it was. 
Admiral also needs to show  Mr C knew the issue was relevant  to the insurer or that he didnt  care 
whether it was. Its shown, on the comparison website,  he was asked the question  Is this your main 
residence?. - and was provided with a selection of possible answers ranging from Permanent  main 
residence to unoccupied. The website also warned  of the importance  of answering accurately  to 
avoid additional costs, refusal of a claim  or a policy being cancelled. So I think its likely Mr C knew 
the issue  of occupancy and usage was relevant to the insurer  or that he didnt care whether or not it 
was.  
Admiral also says Mr C took steps,  during  the claim, to avoid it finding  out about Property B. It feels  
thats why he gave misleading information about his whereabouts in the weeks before  the leak was 
discovered. Based  on the information Ive seen Admirals being fair when  it says that. Its a further 
indication Mr C knew  his occupation and use of Property A was of relevance to Admiral.
So Admirals decision  that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless is fair. That means its 
decision to avoid the policy and refuse the claim was a reasonable one  and made in line with 
CIDRA. In such  circumstances CIDRA  allows an insurer to keep the policy premium.  If Admiral 
decides to do that I wont interfere.
Admirals relied  on an unoccupancy  exclusion in the policy  to refuse the claim.  I havent considered  if 
thats fair. Thats because even if I thought it wasnt it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint.  
Ive already said Admiral can, in line with CIDRA, fairly avoid the policy  and refuse the claim.  For the 
same reason I havent  decided if Admiral can fairly rely on the fraud term in the policy to avoid the 
cover and refuse the claim. But I have considered if it can use the same term to fairly reclaim its costs  
from Mr C.
Admirals recovery of its costs
Fraud is a serious  accusation  that can have consequences beyond  the claim decision itself. So 
Admiral should only rely on the fraud condition  when theres strong reason to do so. In this decision I 
havent decided  if the claim was fraudulent or not. Instead  Ive considered whether Admirals  been fair 
and reasonable in its treatment of Mr C  and that includes its decision to rely on the fraud condition  
to recover its costs. Having done so, I think its treated him fairly and reasonably. 
Admiral says Mr C provided  incorrect  and misleading information during  the claim. It says he colluded 
with his friend and former representative  to do so. It feels  he did this to provide a story  to ensure 
Property B and a breach  of the unoccupancy term wouldnt  be discovered. Considering  what  Ive 
been provided  with, I think thats a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
Admiral says the misleading information resulted  in extra investigation costs. That seems likely to me. 
The fraud  term does say Admiral will seek to recover its costs. So Im not going to interfere with 
Admirals decision to do so.
Ref: DRN58635328I havent gone  into great detail about the misleading information Admiral says it was given by Mr C 
during the claim.  But Im going to refer to the issue of his whereabouts  in the weeks before the 
discovery of the escape  of water. Its relevant  to the misrepresentation issue outlined above. It also 
explains why I only give limited weight to his account and why Im not persuaded  it isnt what most  
likely happened. It also supports Admirals position that misleading information provided  by Mr C 
significantly increased  its claim  investigation costs.
During its claim investigation Admiral seems to have been considering  if Mr C met the occupancy 
terms of the policy. Thats a reasonable  thing for it to do. Mr C provided a statement  to Admiral. In it 
he says he stayed  with his friend  at Property C during the two weeks or so before discovering  the 
leak. The friend confirmed this to Admiral. That was roughly the last two weeks of January 2016.  
Properties A, B and C are all in different  towns. Mr C says he stayed at Property C during  that period  
because he was unwell.  The friends wife is a nurse. The statement says during those few weeks he 
made the occasional visit to Property A  including  one overnight  stay. 
Admiral says the location  data for Mr Cs mobile phone doesnt  support him being at Property C 
during those two weeks. So this means the information he provided about  his location in the weeks 
leading up to the discovery of the damage is misleading.
Ive looked at the phone location and usage information. Its reasonable for Admiral to say it doesnt 
support what  Mr C says about  his whereabouts during the period.  Essentially it shows the phone 
being used at Property  B throughout  not at A or C. 
Mr Cs current  representative says he wasnt necessarily with that mobile phone all the time. Instead 
that phone was for work matters only. He says Mr C was travelling between Properties B and C 
during the period. He left the work phone at Property B. And took with him a second phone held for 
personal matters.
I accept what the representative says is possible. But I dont think  its most  likely what did happen. The 
records show  the phone being used, in the location  of Property  B, throughout every day and into each 
evening. Receiving  care at his friends would have required Mr C to travel 60 miles between  Properties  
B and C each morning and evening  during a period the representative says he was too unwell to 
stay at Property A and was so exhausted he was sleeping for up to 20 hours  a day. 
Early in the claim Mr C told Admiral he made various trips to Property A from Property C during the 
two weeks.  He didnt mention the work and travel pattern outlined above.  It was provided after 
Admiral raised concern,  based on the phone data,  about  his account of his whereabouts  during that 
period. So I can understand why Admiral feels Mr Cs provided  misleading information.  
Ive considered what Mr C and his representative say about his health   and its impact on his memory 
and personal administration. But I dont think its likely  his health condition  would  account for theses 
discrepancies.
I think  its likely the misleading information has resulted in significantly higher investigation costs for 
Admiral. Its undertaken  a lot of work that probably wouldnt have been required without it. So Im not 
going to interfere  with its decision to recover  its costs  from Mr C.
Mr Cs costs and compensation 
Mr C wants  Admiral to cover the costs for his professional representative. He says he had no choice, 
because of Admirals actions, but to seek professional support. But I think Admirals  actions have 
been reasonable. Its taken the course it did in response to Mr Cs actions. So it wouldnt be fair to 
make it cover  his representative costs.  
Mr C feels  Admirals treated him unfairly, particulalry in relation to his health condition.  I accept he has 
a condition. But as Ive said above I dont feel its likely to account for the inconsistancies  discussed 
Ref: DRN58635329above. Mr C feels Admirals been trying to incriminate  him, by taking advantage  of his condition. He 
also says it harrassed him. Having considered  whats been  provided I dont agree. Overall  Admiral 
developed reasonable concerns and made understandable investigations in response to the 
information Mr C provided.
Our Investigator recommended Admiral pay Mr C £500 compensation to recognise unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience  caused  by incorrectly  avoiding his policy. But I think its decision to do so 
was fair and reasonable. So I dont intend to require Admiral  to pay Mr C any compensation for that. 
The Investigator also felt there had been some customer service issues that justified  compensation. I 
dont think it would be appropriate, considering the misleading information he seems to have provided 
to Admiral, to require it to pay him any additional compensation. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to require Admiral Insurance  Company Limited to reinstate 
Mr Cs policy,  pay his claim or any compensation. I dont intend to interfere with its decision to recover 
its costs or to make  it do anything  differently.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5863532