K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy with Aspen  Insurance UK Limited,  it used  to be the buildings insurer  for the 
block of flats where she is a leaseholder.
background
Ms P is the leaseholder of her flat where  she lives. The block  is owned  by the local council 
and it arranges  the buildings insurance  for the block as a whole. Under  her lease, Ms P 
contributes to the premium.
From April 2008 until the end of March 2016,  Aspen provided the insurance  for the block, 
with the council being the policyholder. Ms P was a beneficiary of the policy. In 2009 Ms P 
told Aspen  of damage caused to her home  by a water leak from the flat above.  
The matter  was ongoing between 2009 and late 2015. A survey of the damage to Ms Ps 
home was completed  in February 2013,  repairs were  estimated at around £4,100. In 
November 2014  Aspen offered Ms P £4,500 to settle her claim in cash.  Ms P was 
considering the offer when further  damage occurred  in December 2014. In 2015 Aspen 
considered carrying  out works. Whilst in October 2015 the council advised leaks in the flat 
above had been repaired, Aspen  decided  not to go ahead with repairing Ms Ps flat and 
offered her £5,000 cash to settle  the claim.
In an email Aspen sent Ms P in November 2015  it explained that its offer: 
Had been increased from the £4,500  offered in November 2014 to £5,000.
Did not include any deductions for the work  it was aware  the council was planning to 
undertake at Ms Ps home.
Did not include costs  for replacement hard flooring as such wasnt  covered by the policy.
Was being made in full and final settlement. 
If accepted by Ms P, would bring  the matters  being dealt with by it (including the further  
leak in 2014) to a conclusion.
Aspen didnt receive a reply from Ms P so in February 2016, with a further letter,  it sent her a 
cheque for £5,000. Ms P didnt revert to Aspen and in July 2016 she cashed  the cheque.
In 2018 Ms P contacted  Aspen again.  She said she was unhappy  with the way the claims 
had been handled, that the loss adjuster hadnt advised her and it had been  unfair  for it to 
add the full and final restriction to the offer it had made. She said the offer had been 
insufficient in any event, as it didnt include flooring, and even if this wasnt  covered by the 
policy that shouldnt  matter as the council was liable for the damage which had been caused 
to her home. 
When Aspen  said it wasnt minded to change its position from 2016 Ms P complained to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it couldnt be ignored that 
Ms P, having had months  to considerer her position, by cashing the cheque, had accepted  
Aspens offer in full and final settlement. He felt Aspen had dealt  with the claim fairly.
Ms P didnt agree. She argued that the 2016  settlement didnt take account  of the incident 
which had occurred in 2014 and which she was still waiting for Aspen to deal with. The 
settlement placed  her in a worse position than if Aspen had completed the work. Ms P said 
the loss adjuster hadnt properly fulfilled his role of protecting her interests and advising her 
and she hadnt  been made aware  that Aspen had stopped providing the cover in 2016.
Ref: DRN58715302The complaint was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Ms P, I dont think her complaint should  be upheld.
I understand that this has been very frustrating and upsetting  for Ms P. But its often the case  
that damage caused by leaks from neighbours can take a long time to resolve. And it isnt 
the case that the purpose of the loss adjuster is to advise and assist a beneficiary  of a policy. 
The loss adjusters main  role is to assess (and sometimes manage) the claim on behalf  of 
the insurer, whose  primary liability is to its policyholder, in this case, the council.
In any event, Aspen was very clear  in its email dated 2014 as to what the terms and basis  of 
its offer were. As I set out in my background, the offer of £5,000 did take into account  the 
fact of the further leak in 2014.  The letter also explained that flooring  was not part of the 
settlement. Crucially the letter  said that Ms P accepting the offer would draw an end to these 
matters. I appreciate that Ms P was going  through some difficult  times but she had the 
benefit of the content of that email when she chose to cash the cheque several months later 
in July 2016. At which point she hadnt  and didnt  tell Aspen that she was cashing the 
cheque on an interim basis only ie that she wasnt  accepting its offer to settle the matter fully 
and finally. It isnt reasonable then, in my view,  for Ms P to revert to Aspen  again  more than 
two years later to debate the settlement. 
I know Ms P feels that more should  have been  done to stop the leaks  from the flat above, to 
make the council take action, to let her know when cover changed. But I cant see that any of 
these things are Aspens  responsibility. Its liable for resolving the damage which occurred 
whilst it was providing cover. It did that by making  a cash settlement  to Ms P which  she 
accepted in full and final settlement of damage  occurring prior to November 2015. Its 
unfortunate that further damage  occurred after that, once Aspen was no longer the insurer  
for the property. But as Aspen were  no longer the insurer, and it had provided full and final 
settlement of its liability for the previous damage, I cant reasonably say it is responsible  for 
any further loss which  occurred. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Aspen  Insurance UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8  August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5871530