K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss W has said she didnt know she had taken  PPI with the credit card. Halifax has said it 
would have required Miss Ws consent  before PPI could be added. Where  theres a dispute  
about what happened, I have to base my decision  on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened, taking into account all the evidence that is available .
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form which was completed during the 
meeting Miss W had in branch and a printed cross  has been placed in the box next to the 
credit card repayment insurance  the name used by Halifax  for PPI. Whilst the cross has 
been printed on the form,  I think  its likely  this answer  would have reflected the 
conversation she had with Halifax in the meeting. Miss W has signed and dated the form 
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. 
Ive also considered what Miss W has said about  not knowing  that shed taken PPI. Halifax  
has provided me with copies of some of Miss Ws credit card statements and I can see PPI 
appears on them. So had Miss W not been aware that the PPI was added I wouldve  
expected her to raise  this sooner than she did. So overall I think  Halifax  made it clear that 
Miss W didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now, many  years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss W has said she didnt need PPI as she would have received six months full followed by 
six months half sick pay from her employer at the time if she was too ill to work. But this 
policy would cover 10% of the outstanding balance of her account for up to 12 months  if she 
was too sick to work or she lost her job. And this would  be in addition  to, and potentially  for 
longer than, any sick pay she would receive at a full rate. Miss W has said her parents 
couldve helped her if she needed it. But that depended on her parents  being able to do so 
when she needed  it which wasnt guaranteed. So I still think the PPI would have been useful 
to Miss W. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
Ref: DRN55965692it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss W paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss W back  some of the cost of 
the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Miss W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5596569