K820x#14Complaint
Miss P complains  Nationwide  Building  Society failed to refund  her a series  of transactions 
she didnt agree to. She says the transactions were made by people  shed trusted who were 
using her mobile phone  to play games. She was unaware they were using her debit  card to 
make payments to a gambling website.
Background
Miss P opened a current account with Nationwide  in February 2018. Between  April and 
September 2018 nearly 300 payments were  made  to a company running a gambling 
website. The total sum of the transactions was approximately £6,750,  although some money 
was paid back to the account from the company.
Miss P suspects a group of people made  the transactions without her permission. These 
people befriended her in April 2018  and would visit her home  usually at night.  She let them  
use her phone to play games, which she believed were free, and one of them became her 
boyfriend. She says she let him use her card to make several payments to a different 
gambling website  and allowed some of them to occasionally use her card to pay for food. 
She also says her card went missing  on occasion and shed sometimes lend her phone  to 
them.  
Miss P let us know she has several mental  health conditions and a learning disability. She 
says this makes her very trusting  of people and she was taken advantage of. She says her 
mum discovered what had happened after reviewing her bank statements. This was after her 
mum had found  the people in question at her address and forced  them to leave. 
Nationwide refused to refund the transactions, so Miss P complained to them. They rejected 
her complaint. They said the gambling  company had provided  records  which showed the 
account was opened using her personal details and address. The company had also paid 
some funds back to the account, so Nationwide couldnt see how someone else wouldve 
benefited from this. Unhappy with this response,  Miss P brought  her complaint to us.
An investigator at our service didnt  uphold Miss Ps complaint. They were satisfied the 
correct card details from Miss Ps card had been used to make  the payments. And they 
thought either Miss P made the transactions  herself or shed agreed to other  people  making  
them. In summary they said:
-Nationwides records showed some transactions made to the gambling website were 
in Blackpool. Miss P says she never visited Blackpool, but at the same time these 
transactions were  made, there were others also made in Blackpool which werent  
being disputed.
-There were  almost  daily log ins to Miss Ps online account during the period in 
question. A number  of these werent  at the times Miss P had said the group of people 
would visit. Looking  at how many log ins there were, it was likely Miss P had logged 
in on these occasions or someone  else did with her knowledge. The transactions  to 
Ref: DRN52660372the gambling company were clear  and numerous, so Miss P wouldve probably  seen  
them and questioned what was happening if she didnt know about them.
Miss P made a previous  complaint  involving  gambling transactions  on a current 
account held with a previous bank. That bank had refunded the transactions but then 
reversed their decision when they saw the transactions  were  done on Miss Ps phone 
and the same IP address  was used to check her online account. The bank  had 
produced a record to show  Miss P had told them shed noticed the transactions on 
her statements.  So, it seems  she has some  awareness of how to review statements. 
-Some payments into Miss Ps account  were  from the gambling  website. It was 
unlikely someone  whod want to gain from gambling would do so if they werent  going  
to have the winnings paid to them. Miss P had said she kept her card PIN in an 
ornament with her card. So, it wouldve been  easier for someone to take her card and 
withdraw money, instead of trying to get funds through gambling.
Unhappy with this response,  Miss P has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ps complaint for very much  the same reasons  our investigator gave.
what I need to consider
For Nationwide not to refund the transactions Id need to think Miss P authorised them.  In 
deciding this I first need to consider  whether the payments were  authenticated   so were 
they validated  using the correct security details on Miss Ps card? This is for Nationwide  to 
show. 
Nationwide have provided records which show the correct card details  were  inputted  on the 
website to make each payment. So, I think each payment was authenticated. So, I now need  
to consider whether I think Miss P or someone  with their permission consented to the 
transactions
Did Miss P agree to the transactions or know they were  happening?
I cant know for certain what happened  when each transaction was made. But when  facts  
are unclear,  I need to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened. Its possible that 
all the payments made to the website  were done  without Miss Ps knowledge. But based  on 
everything thats been said and the evidence available to me, I think its more  likely than not 
that Miss P made the payments,  or knew other people were making them. Ill explain why:
Ref: DRN52660373-Miss P has said she knew the group of people were playing fruity games, but that 
she thought the games were free. Shes also said one of them was her then 
boyfriend, who she let use her card to gamble on a different  website. So, I must also 
consider its possible  she let him use her card to make payments to this website.
-There are multiple log ins to Miss Ps account during the entire period of the 
transactions. Its possible some of them were done by the persons  she suspects. But 
the log ins didnt only happen when  she says these people were at her property. 
They also happened  during the morning and afternoon, nearly every day. So, I think  
at least a sizeable amount  of the log-ins were Miss P.
I think Miss P wouldve been aware  of the transactions early on. I cant  see why she 
checked her account  if not to see what activity was taking  place  on it. She says this is 
her only current  account and it appears  she receives important payments into it. The 
transactions clearly  state the name of the gambling  company  and represent  a large 
regular outgoing  over a long period. So, I fail to see how she wouldnt at some point 
have noticed them or raised  a concern if she didnt agree to them.
-Miss P made a similar claim on a card she held with another bank the previous year - 
the transactions were also to a gambling website. Ive taken very seriously what 
shes said about the person she says made those  transactions and how they treated 
her. But I believe  the risk of people using her phone and card to make transactions of 
this kind was known  to her prior to her opening  her Nationwide  account. And from the 
information the other bank has given us, it appears shed raised the complaint after 
noticing the transactions on her statements.
Ive taken very seriously what  Miss P and her family have told us about her situation.  And 
based on what theyve  said,  I think its possible she was taken advantage of by some 
unsavoury people   for which  she has my upmost sympathy if that is the case. But I can only 
hold Nationwide  responsible for transactions she didnt authorise  and I cant  fairly conclude  
she was unaware  of what was happening  on her account when the transactions  were 
happening.
Nationwide say they werent  aware of Miss Ps conditions before the complaint was raised. 
And I cant see that they were made aware. But its important for Nationwide  to understand 
them now and to see what  things  they can do to help Miss P going  forward. But because I 
think Miss P understood the transactions were going  out of her account, I dont think  
anything different wouldve happened had Nationwide got in touch at the time they were  
happening.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Ref: DRN52660374Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5266037