K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has rejected two claims hes 
made under section  75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)(s75).
background
Mr M bought  three insurance  policies using his Halifax  credit card. The deals were brokered  
by a company  Ill call A but company Q were the insurers.
Mr M made a s75 claim to Halifax when his car got damaged and the subsequent paint 
repair wasnt of an acceptable  standard. And when  Q went into administration Mr M also 
made a s75 claim to Halifax. He said that, as the provider of credit, they were jointly liable.  
He therefore wanted them to return the money hed paid for the insurance  policies. 
But Halifax  rejected his claims.  They  rejected his claim  for damage to his car because they 
said there wasnt a valid debtor,  creditor, supplier relationship. And when they looked at his 
claim about Q being in administration  they noted  that the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) had stated that all policies would remain  valid and that they hoped to be 
able to announce what they were doing  soon.  So they didnt think Mr M had a claim they 
could look into.
Mr M was disappointed  so he referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator  agreed 
with Halifax. She explained  that for a s75 claim to succeed there  needed to be a valid 
relationship, a linkage, between the debtor, creditor and supplier but here, as Mr M had paid 
a broker, the broker  had severed the link. So she said a claim wouldnt be valid.
She went on to consider  Mr Ms claim about the business  administration.  She provided Mr M 
with an up to date link to the FSCSs advice page were  she said it seemed he may be 
receiving a replacement  policy  for the remainder of his term. But she didnt think Halifax  
could be held responsible for the s75 claim whilst this was ongoing.
Mr M was disappointed  with the investigators  response and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M and I can see this has been a frustrating incident for him but 
Im afraid I dont think he has a valid claim under s75. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN51992782When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can 
be responsible  for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made by the supplier. 
s75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So s75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
But for the creditor, Halifax in this case, to have  that liability it needs  to have a relationship 
with the supplier of the goods  and here it hasnt, as the payment was made to A and not 
the insurer Q.
So the requisite link required for a s75 claim,  between the debtor (Mr M), the creditor  
(Halifax) and the supplier  (the insurer) has been  broken  and Mr M therefore has no claim 
under s75. 
FSCS
Theres no claim against the supplier Q here until the insurance  is voided. But the FSCSs 
recent update  (8 April 2019) on the link provided  by the investigator, would suggest that 
affected eligible  policyholders will shortly receive  a replacement policythat  matches  the 
level of cover provided.
So it seems  theres no claim here as theres been no loss. But even  if this hadnt been the 
case, its clear Halifax wouldnt need to uphold  a s75 claim as the debtor, creditor, supplier 
link has been severed by the broker.
Although this wouldnt, of course  prevent Mr M from raising a claim in the courts himself, 
against an insurer that he thought had breached a contract with him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5199278