K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on his car insurance 
policy.
background
In November 2017, Mr T was driving when he was involved in an accident with another 
vehicle. He reported it to esure. Both Mr T and the other driver said the other was to blame 
for the accident.
Mr T told esure  during  a phone call that he was driving in a lane on a very large  roundabout  
and that he intended to move into the lane on his left so that he could exit the roundabout. 
He said the other driver came from behind  at speed, undertook  him and then cut across his 
car causing a collision resulting in damage to both vehicles. esures note of that call says:  
I confirmed best case would be a 50/50 and if cant agree  then may need to accept full 
fault. The other driver said that it was Mr T who changed lanes and drove into him.
esure asked  Mr T to complete a sketch  of the accident and to complete a written statement. 
esure said that Mr Ts statement supported the other drivers  version  of events. esure  
accepted full liability for the accident  on Mr Ts behalf and settled the other drivers claim. 
esure then notified  Mr T of their decision and he complained. He felt the decision  to admit 
liability was wrong  and that esure  hadnt investigated the matter properly. He also said he 
felt that he was discriminated against.  He told esure  that he intended to take legal action. In 
their notes of a call with Mr T, esure said I advised he can look to take hi[s] own legal action  
if he does not agree (at his own cost). 
esure looked into Mr Ts complaint and upheld it in part. They said they hadnt followed their 
complaints procedure properly so they offered Mr T £150 compensation. But they said their 
decision on liability was correct.
As Mr T was unhappy with esures decision, he brought his complaint  to our service.  One of 
our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that esure should have at least decided 
on a 50/50 split liability given it was one word against the other  and there was no 
independent evidence as to how the accident  happened. She recommended  that esure 
should refund Mr T half his excess with interest and pay him £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he suffered.
As esure didnt agree with the adjudicator, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 28 January 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I must decide if esure have handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way.
As with most car insurance policies I have seen, esures policy  gives  them  the 
discretion to deal with claims  as they feel appropriate. But that discretion must  be 
exercised in a fair and reasonable way, especially as liability  decisions by insurers 
can have serious consequences  for their policyholders.
Ref: DRN57739812Mr T has maintained throughout that he didnt drive into the other car or into the other  
drivers lane, he said he was preparing to move  into the next lane to his left and that 
he had signalled  to do that while carrying out checks  to ensure it was safe to do so. 
But esure have  interpreted his written statement  as an admission that he moved into 
the other drivers lane. Mr T has told us that English isnt his first language and this 
comes across in his written  and verbal  communication. This is also apparent in his 
written statement which esure have relied on in concluding he was at fault for the 
accident. Given esure had spoken  to Mr T over the phone, I would have expected 
them to have been aware that his English was limited. And given the significance of 
the statement  he was asked to write, perhaps  he should have been offered 
assistance by way of an interpreter, but he wasnt. 
When an insurer settles a third party claim by admitting their policyholder was at 
fault, they should do so on a without prejudice  basis, especially where the 
policyholder said they were  not at fault. Settling in this way gives the policyholder the 
opportunity to take legal  action themselves, if they want to, to prove  they were not at 
fault for the accident. In Mr Ts case esure  settled the claim by admitting fault on his 
behalf, but they didnt  do so on a without prejudice  basis. It would appear they did 
this consciously because  they told us: given the evidence we held, the claim was not 
settled on a without  prejudice basis.  But esure were aware that Mr T disputed 
liability and he told esure he wanted to take legal action himself. Esure  even 
advised him he could take legal action if he didnt agree with their decision. So 
I think esure have deprived  Mr T the opportunity to take legal action to prove the 
other driver was at fault for the accident.  
Had Mr T taken  the matter to court and proved  the other driver was at fault, then its 
likely his no claims bonus years would have been  reinstated, he would have  
recovered the £350 policy excess he paid,  and a fault claim affecting his future 
premiums would have  been removed from his driving record. So I intend  to uphold 
this part of the complaint. I intend  to require esure  to refund Mr Ts policy excess of 
£350 together with simple interest at 8% per year from when he paid it until its 
refunded to him. I also intend to require  esure  to correct  the insurance  database  to 
record the accident as non-fault. It follows that his no claims discount years  should 
also be reinstated. I also intend to require esure to pay Mr T £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  he suffered. This should be in addition  to the £150 
esure has already  offered to pay him for not following  their complaints procedure.
Finally, Mr T felt that he was discriminated  against by esure in their handling of his 
claim. But other than what Mr T said,  I havent seen any evidence  to satisfy  me that 
esure discriminated against him. So I dont intend to uphold this part of his 
complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr T accepted my provisional decision. 
esure reiterated their view that they were correct in accepting liability as Mr T was at fault for 
the accident.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. Mr T has maintained throughout that the other driver was at fault. Mr T also indicated 
to esure  that he intended to pursue his claim by taking legal action. esure settled the other 
Ref: DRN57739813drivers claim, but not on a without prejudice basis, thereby  depriving  Mr T of his opportunity  
to take the matter to court. Its common practice  for insurers to accept claims on a without 
prejudice basis so I dont think esure acted reasonably. Im therefore upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited 
to:
Pay Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to him. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr T has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Refund Mr T his policy excess of £350,  together with interest  at 8% per year simple from 
the date he paid the excess  until payment is made  to him.1 
Correct the insurance database record to show the incident  as non-fault.
Reinstate Mr Ts no claims discount  years.
Send  Mr T a letter  explaining  all the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
 
1 If esure consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr T how much they have taken off. They should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5773981