K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained about Scottish  Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon). He is unhappy with 
the service he received  from Aegon when they transferred his pension.
background
Mr O had decided  to move his pension away from Aegon to another provider after taking 
advice. A request  was sent to Aegon via an electronic pension  transfer  system  on 
17 October 2015 to start the process.
Mr Os financial  advisers contacted Aegon on Monday 19 October  2015  to confirm the 
request had been received and enquired  how long it would take. They  were  told that, so long 
as the information was correct, it could take up to ten business days  to process Mr Os 
request. They  were also told that after that the proceeds of Mr Os fund would be sent by 
BACS transfer. The BACS transfer would take another  three to five working days  and same 
day transfers were not possible.
Mr O contacted Aegon personally  on 19 October  2015. He explained he was concerned  
about the time the transfer  may take.  He said that his pension would be out of the market 
and wouldnt  be earning interest for far too long. Mr O also asked about  the method of 
transfer and whether it could be done  as a telegraphic transfer  instead  of BACS.  He was told 
by the Aegon representative  that telegraphic transfers (same  day) were possible,  though  
there would be a fee payable for this.
Mr O became concerned  during this conversation,  he felt that the representative  was being 
rude, and the call was then escalated to a manager at his request. He spoke with a 
complaints manager  and the method of transfer was again  discussed. Mr O was then told 
that a telegraphic transfer wasnt something Aegon  normally offered unless it had made  an 
error. He was told that BACS  was the preferred method of payment. The complaints 
manager finished the call by explaining  to Mr O that he would ask if a telegraphic  transfer 
was possible and let Mr O know.
The complaints manager then phoned  Mr O on the following day (20 October).  He told Mr O that 
Aegon would  send  the payment by telegraphic transfer and that it would be done  on Friday.
The same manager  then sent an email  to Mr O on 21 October. The email explained that there  
had been made a mistake. Although Mr O had been told that the pension  funds would be sent 
by telegraphic transfer that was wrong  and it would actually be completed using BACS.  Aegon 
then called Mr O on 22 October 2015  confirming the funds had been sent by BACS.
Mr O complained. He said that the phone call on 20 October 2015 constituted a contract or a 
binding agreement that the transfer would be made by telegraphic  transfer, but Aegon 
disagreed. Aegon said that the member of staff Mr O had spoken with had made  a mistake 
and misinterpreted  what  he had been  told by another internal department.  Aegon  apologised 
for their error  and offered  Mr O £300  compensation for the failures  in its service.
Mr O disagreed and referred  his complaint to this service. He said that he had suffered 
investment loss of around £1,400 because his investments were delayed due to the use of 
BACS instead of telegraphic transfer.  
The adjudicator felt that the service  Mr O had received from Aegon  had not been at the 
standard it should have been, Mr O had been  given inconsistent information and staff had been 
rude to him. However, the adjudicator felt that the £300 offered was a fair compensation for this.
Ref: DRN51389922The adjudicator didnt agree with Mr Os view that the phone call of 20 October 2015 created 
a contract that Aegon  should be bound by. So he didnt think there should be an award for any 
investment loss.
Mr O didnt agree and so the complaint has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the arguments that 
have been put forward by both parties  but my decision will focus  on the issues which I think  
are central to the outcome.  Ive not commented  on each and every point thats been made.
Aegon has accepted that there were some  failures  in service. These include some rudeness 
by one of its staff and Mr O being  given inconsistent information about  how the transfer would  
be processed. Its offered £300  to compensate Mr O for the trouble and upset caused by this.
The issue  I have to decide is whether there  should  be any additional  award and, in particular, 
whether its fair that Mr O should be compensated for any investment loss he may have 
suffered due to the fact that the transfer  was made by BACS and not telegraphic transfer.
The crux of the complaint is what Mr O was told on 20 October and whether this created 
some obligation  on Aegon  to use telegraphic transfer and not BACS  to transfer his funds.
Ive listened to the recording of the call on 20 October. Its clear that Mr O was told that the 
payment would be made by telegraphic transfer. However, its also clear that this was 
described as being  as a gesture of good  will. So I dont  agree with Mr O that this statement 
was an offer that was intended  to, or did, give rise to any agreement that should be 
construed as a binding contract.
Im satisfied that the complaints manager  had made a mistake  in his understanding of the 
correct position.  He was mistaken in his belief  that the transfer was to be made by 
telegraphic transfer.  When he became aware of that misunderstanding,  he seems to have 
taken prompt steps to inform Mr O of the correct position. 
Its perhaps unfortunate that Aegon didnt  choose  to send the payment  by telegraphic 
transfer given  the background.  But I dont think it had any obligation  to. And I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to make any further  award for any investment loss when  Aegon  
dealt with the transfer in the timescales  it had explained at the outset.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Scottish  Equitable Plc. Im satisfied that the offer its 
made is fair. I dont  make any additional  award. I understand that offer remains open for 
acceptance by Mr O if he wishes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5138992