K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. Reference to Advantage  includes reference  to its agents. 
background
In June 2018, Advantage received notification of a claim from a claims management 
company about  an accident involving Miss S car. Advantage  wrote  to Miss S. Miss S told 
Advantage that she hadnt been  involved  in an accident. Advantage instructed solicitors to 
deal with the claim and Im told it paid the other drivers claim on a without  prejudice  basis, 
which means that it didnt  admit that Miss S was at fault.  
In September  2018, Advantage instructed an engineer to inspect  Miss S car. The engineer 
reported that Miss S car showed no evidence of impact damage or recent repair.  
In October  2018, Advantage  told the other drivers  claims  management company that it 
believed this was a case of mistaken identity.  
In December 2018, another insurer settled the other  drivers claim in full. But the other 
drivers claims  management company didnt tell Advantage  about that. 
In December 2018, Advantage sent Miss S a renewal quote,  which  was more than double 
the previous annual premium. Miss S took out insurance with another  insurer.
In February 2019,  the other  drivers claims management company told Advantage that 
another insurer had settled  its claim in full. In March  2019, Advantage told Miss S that its 
solicitors had confirmed  that she had no involvement in the incident. 
Miss S says that she told Advantage that her car hadnt been involved in the alleged 
accident straight away. She says that Advantage  told her not to worry and that it would 
investigate the matter. Over the next few weeks, she was called several times from a 
number she didnt recognise, so she didnt answer the calls. Miss S called Advantage to tell 
it that someone was harassing her about the alleged accident  and it wasnt until sometime  
later that Advantage told her that its solicitors were trying to contact her. 
Miss S says that she did everything  that was asked of her and months passed before she 
received a very high quote for the renewal of her policy. Advantage told her the quote  was 
higher because the claim was still open. Miss S says that she still couldnt  get this matter 
resolved with Advantage, despite  several  phone calls. She says that she took out a new 
policy with another  insurer  but the premium  was higher than it should have been because  of 
the open claim. 
Miss S wants Advantage to sort this matter  out. She says shes spent considerable time on 
this and made many phone calls. Miss S says that she wants Advantage to confirm in writing  
that this has been resolved so she can tell her new insurer and ask it to adjust the premium.  
She says that shes been left out of pocket through no fault of her own.  
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Advantage had 
treated Miss S fairly. The investigator said that Advantage  had delayed  in arranging an 
inspection of Miss S car. He said that if Advantage had arranged  the inspection earlier the 
claim wouldnt have been recorded against  Miss S. 
Ref: DRN58353642The investigator said that Advantage should  pay Miss S compensation of £200 and interest 
on the increased premium  Miss S had paid with her new insurer. He also said that 
Advantage should provide  Miss S with a letter explaining the changes, ensure the claim isnt 
listed on any internal  or external databases  and give Miss S written confirmation  of that.
Advantage didnt  agree  with the investigator. It said that it wouldnt arrange for an inspection 
of Miss S car in the circumstances  that arose here until it was absolutely necessary, as it 
has a responsibility  to mitigate claim costs. Advantage said that whether it had an engineers 
report or not, it would  still have to pay the other drivers claim until the other drivers claims 
management company  had confirmed  that the claim had been redirected.  It said that it was 
difficult to get a response from the other drivers  claim management company, so an earlier 
inspection of Miss S car wouldnt have made any difference.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S policy provides that Advantage can take over and conduct the defence  or settlement 
of any claim.  Thats a common term in motor  polices and means that Advantage can deal 
with the claim against Miss S. But wed expect it do to so fairly and I dont  think it did that 
here. Ill explain why.
Miss S gave Advantage  a prompt, firm and plausible denial of involvement  in the alleged 
incident. She said that she didnt know the alleged driver  of her car, lived over 200 miles 
from the alleged  incident, had never been  there and was at work at the relevant time. She 
says that she subsequently provided confirmation  from her boss of her and her cars 
whereabouts at the time of the alleged accident. In those circumstances, I think that 
Advantage should have  rebutted the claim promptly and firmly.  
Based on what Ive seen,  Advantage  didnt  do that until October 2018, over three months 
after the notification  of claim. One of the things that would  have  enabled Advantage to rebut  
the claim was an engineers report. The other drivers claim included  a claim for the total loss 
of her car. So, if Miss S car had been  involved  in an incident, it would likely show damage. 
Advantage didnt  instruct  an engineer until September 2018.  I appreciate  that Advantage is 
concerned about  incurring  expense  but in delaying  a firm rebuttal of the claim, it didnt treat 
Miss S fairly.  
If Advantage had dealt  with this promptly, its likely that the claim would  have been  
redirected to the appropriate insurer earlier. In those circumstances, Miss S would have 
avoided what shes told us is a significantly  higher  premium when she took out a new policy  
with another insurer.   
I think that Advantages communication  with Miss S was poor. It didnt tell her that it had 
instructed solicitors, so Miss S didnt  know who was contacting her. Also, it doesnt appear to 
have kept her updated about what was happening. That meant  that Miss S worried about 
what was happening over a prolonged period and had to contact Advantage herself. 
Ref: DRN58353643Considering everything, I think that the investigators  proposed resolution of this complaint is 
fair. I agree that fair compensation for Miss S distress and inconvenience is £200. 
On 3 March 2019,  Advantage  wrote  to Miss S to confirm that she had no involvement  in the 
alleged incident.  I dont think that letter went far enough. Advantage should tell Miss S, in 
writing, that the claim has been removed from internal and external databases. Miss S can 
then show her subsequent insurer or insurers that letter  and ask for an adjustment  in the 
premium.  
Miss S says that she paid a higher premium with her subsequent insurer  because of the 
open claim. Ive dealt  with what Miss S can do about that above. If Miss S paid an increased 
premium with subsequent insurers, shes been kept out of the use of the additional amount 
she paid. So, Advantage should pay Miss S interest  on any additional premium  she paid 
because of this open claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint. I now require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
pay Miss S compensation of £200 in relation to her distress  and inconvenience;
 
pay interest on any additional premium Miss S paid as a result of this open claim at 
renewal in January  2019 and any subsequent renewal, at the simple  rate of 8% per 
year, from the date of the renewal(s), to the date of settlement;
remove the claim from any internal  and external  databases, if it hasnt  already,  and 
give Miss S written  confirmation that its done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5835364