K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr W told us he could recall applying for the credit card using a leaflet. But Halifax  has 
shown us a copy  of the application form. I can see it is a printed form which wouldve been 
used during a branch meeting. So I think Mr W applied for the credit card and was sold the 
PPI during a branch meeting.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Mr W in 2005. I can see 
the application form contains a section about  PPI. I note a box has been marked with a cross  
to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Mr Ws circumstances  at the time. So I think the form was likely 
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Mr W to check  and sign.  I note 
that in addition to the cross,  Mr W has signed separately for the PPI to be added  to the 
account. I think its likely the PPI was discussed  and accepted  by Mr W during this 
conversation. 
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. 
Mr W has told us hed receive full sick pay from his employer for up to six months followed 
by statutory sick pay. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr W 
couldnt work. And the benefit would be paid in addition to any sick pay. So I still think Mr W 
would have found the policy useful  if he became  unwell, particularly if he was unable  to work 
for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mr W had lost his job, meaning he could  
use any savings or redundancy payment for other living costs. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr W off taking 
out the cover. 
Ref: DRN54538962This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already paid Mr W back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453896