K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC would  not allow him to end his repayment 
arrangement early by returning to normal contractual repayments on his credit card.
background
In 2017 Barclays  agreed a reduced interest  repayment arrangement (arrangement1)  with 
Mr M as he was in financial difficulty and unable to maintain  the contractual repayments on 
his Barclaycard. The terms of that agreement said it would last for 12 months. Subject to 
review when it ended,  it could  be renewed  for another 12 months  to a maximum of 5 years.  
Otherwise Mr M would  be required to return to his normal credit card terms and make  the 
necessary repayments.
Barclays wrote to Mr M in January 2018  explaining  that arrangement1 was about  to end and 
stating that his contractual terms would be reinstated  from March.  Mr M complained because 
he said hed been  told by Barclays staff that arrangement1 would be in place for as long as 
he needed it. But the written terms and conditions  sent to Mr M in 2017 had been  clear that 
the arrangement  would last for only 12 months.  Mr M says he wasnt  able to return to normal 
credit card repayments at the end of 12 months  and he therefore felt pressurised  by 
Barclays into agreeing  another repayment  arrangement. That new arrangement 
(arrangement2) would run until 2023  and would repay his debt in full. But when it ended he 
wouldnt then be allowed to resume the use of his credit card.  
Whilst arrangement2 was in place Mr Ms financial circumstances improved and he applied  
for a mortgage. But he says that his application was prejudiced by the existence of 
arrangement2. He therefore asked Barclays if it would terminate the agreement early and 
allow him instead to repay his credit card as normal. Barclays refused  saying  arrangement2 
didnt include an option to return to contractual payments.
Consequently, Mr M complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding Mr Ms complaint. In summary he said that 
notwithstanding Mr Ms belief that arrangement1 would last beyond 12 months  the written 
terms and conditions had been clear. And once arrangement1  had expired Barclays 
expected Mr M to resume his normal contractual repayments. However  as he was unable to 
do so arrangement2  was put in place  to prevent the account from being defaulted. Having 
looked at what  had happened  here our investigator  didnt think  that Barclays had treated 
Mr M unfairly.
Mr M disagreed believing that as his finances had now improved he should be able to return  
to his contractual credit card terms. He therefore  asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are required to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically, 
and so when Mr M found he was unable to maintain his credit card repayments Barclays 
agreed a reduced  interest arrangement with him with fixed  monthly  repayments.  This was to 
last for 12 months, although the bank  made  clear  that renewal thereafter might be 
considered. 
Ref: DRN55799252In my judgement Barclays responded reasonably to Mr Ms difficulties. Mr M has said that he 
believed that arrangement1 wouldnt be limited to 12 months, but would last for as long as 
he needed it. However the contract  sent to him was clear on this, and if Mr M had been  able 
to return to contractual repayments at the end of arrangement1 that would have been helpful 
to him as far as his credit  score was concerned. 
But unfortunately Mr M wasnt able to resume contractual  repayments after 12 months, and 
so as he was in breach of his original  credit card contract and owed Barclays  money, it was 
incumbent on him and the bank to try to agree a way forward. And in the absence  of another  
payment arrangement,  an alternative  for Barclays would have been to default Mr Ms 
account, which understandably  he would  have been keen to avoid. Barclays therefore  
suggested a paydown plan that, if maintained  by Mr M, would  repay his debt in full by 2023. 
The terms and conditions  attached to this plan allowed Mr M to pay more  than the required  
monthly repayments, or to repay the balance in full at any time. But it didnt allow  Mr M to 
withdraw from the arrangement part way through and return  to his previous credit card 
terms.
Mr Ms financial circumstances subsequently  improved to such  an extent that he does want 
to end arrangement2 early, and continue repayments on his credit card terms. But 
unfortunately arrangement2 doesnt permit this. And so whilst I sympathise with Mr M about 
his current difficulties in securing a mortgage, Im afraid that I cannot reasonably conclude 
that Barclays has done anything wrong in agreeing arrangement2 with him, which  precludes 
an early exit other than by full repayment of the debt he owes. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5579925