K820x#14complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Barclays  Bank UK Plc did not send  bank statements by 
post resulting  in the late filing of its company accounts.
background
L was charged £375 for filing its company accounts  late. L says that Barclays  is partially 
responsible as it did not send paper bank statements. Barclays paid L £100 for the 
inconvenience caused in it bringing the complaint. But it said that the deadline  for filing the 
company accounts  was 31 December 2017.  L did not file them until 8 March 2018. And 
Barclays sent paper statements out to L on 17 January 2018 following a request on 10 
January 2018.
The investigator did not recommend Barclays do anything  more. She said that:
-Barclays had informed  L in May 2015  that it was going to be changing the method of 
statement delivery to online. This came into effect on 14 August 2015.  It stated that L 
could contact Barclays if it wanted  to continue to receive paper statements.  And 
copies of statements  would be available online for seven years.
-She was satisfied that Barclays could make this change in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and had given L the required notice.
-Postal statements  had stopped  from August 2015 so she thought L could have 
contacted Barclays  earlier than it did  especially if it needed papers statements for a 
return due by 31 December 2017.
-The statements were sent out a week after the request and Barclays  was not 
responsible for the late submission of the accounts.
-Barclays had previously written  to L in November  2016 when it was notified that its 
official registered address had been changed. It asked L whether it wanted to use 
that address for correspondence.  But it continued to use the address that L had given 
it  which  was a different one - and had also been changed around that time in 2016.
-Barclays had apologised to L for the poor service provided on the telephone 
recognising that its director wasnt aware that more than six months statements were 
available online. It had paid reasonable compensation.
L did not agree. The director said that this service  was biased. She had had to repeat the 
details of the complaint over and over. There was a misunderstanding and we had not 
addressed this. The compensation paid was for the inconvenience. Barclays  had refused to 
consider the losses  L made. There had been no compromise. It was Barclays  responsibility 
to address the statements  correctly whether they were online or not. And the statements 
were invalid if they had the wrong  address. She said that L would have  needed to opt in to 
receiving online statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know the investigator has provided L with a copy of a bank  statement  sent by post to L in 
May 2015. That had notes  explaining  that this was going to be the last statement sent by 
post. But that if L wanted  it could ask for postal statements to continue. The information 
explained how L could access statements online.  I dont find that Barclays made any mistake  
in making this change  and I agree  it gave  L a reasonable  period  of notice.
Ref: DRN57253802If L wanted to receive paper statements then I think the fact that this wasnt happening would 
have reasonably come to its attention  earlier than January 2018  when  it complained. It says 
it needed paper statements to produce  the accounts  for the year ending 31 March 2017. Im 
not clear what it did for the accounts  in the financial year before that.
Both the correspondence  address and the registered address for L were  changed  in 2016. 
The official  records show the change in registered address was in November 2016. A bank 
statement issued for L on 23 November 2016  was addressed to the previous 
correspondence address. And the next one dated  23 December 2016 had its new 
correspondence address - the one it uses for this complaint. Ive no evidence to suggest that 
the correspondence address should  have been  changed earlier as L says. And as 
statements were not being sent in the post I cant see this has any real bearing on this 
complaint. Its unclear  to me why the statements would be invalid and what the impact on 
filing accounts would be. And thats especially as for convenience  L wanted to use a 
correspondence address different to the registered company address.
Its reasonable to expect  that L would  take steps  to file its accounts  on time. If as it says it 
needed the paper statements then I do not understand why it did not contact Barclays about 
this until after the deadline. And it did not file its accounts until more than a month  after 
Barclays had sent the statements. I dont see a basis to find Barclays responsible  for any of 
the costs of the late filing. Barclays did not make a mistake in issuing online statements; the 
information L needed was available  online;  and to the extent there was a misunderstanding 
about this L did not raise this until after the deadline  had passed.
I appreciate how frustrated the director is about  missing that deadline  and the related costs 
for L. But I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further than it has. I think  its response to 
the service issues when L contacted it about  the complaint were reasonable. And when  L 
knew it had received a charge Barclays reconsidered the complaint and issued another 
response explaining its position.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
need do no more  than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5725380