K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Ms M. 
Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale.  So Ill refer to 
it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. 
Ms M says she was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account in a 
shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Ms M has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  I will 
explain why.
Ms M says there was no mention of the PPI and it was added  without her knowledge or 
consent. However, given  the length of time that has passed, I cant be sure how well Ms M 
might remember the detail of what happened. And the original documents are no longer  
available, which isnt surprising considering  how long ago this happened. But I think  its likely 
the form, which Ms M filled in and signed, would have set out the PPI as a choice; and its 
likely customers made the choice by ticking a box. 
Overall, without stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that Allianz did 
something wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account.  
Its unlikely that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Ms 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Ms M to decide  whether it was suitable.
However Allianz did need to give Ms M clear and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly. I think  its unlikely 
the form did this, and I dont know how much  detail the adviser in the shop gave. 
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference.  But, in 
Ms Ms circumstances at the time,  even  if shed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely  to have made a difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was 
given a choice   which I accept she says didnt  happen.) I say this because its fairly  likely 
that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it 
would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear 
she had alternative  means  to pay her living expenses and credit  account for long, if she lost 
Ref: DRN55911762her income; and even  if she did, she could  have kept those in reserve  for longer. Also it 
doesnt look like shed  have been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the policy. 
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5591176