K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the service  that Cornmarket Insurance  Services  
Limited provided to them following a claim on their motor policy.
background 
Cornmarket is an independent insurance intermediary. It arranged  cover for Mr and Mrs S 
from May 2017.
Their motor policies  were insured with an insurer that I shall call A but it was Cornmarket 
who arranged these  policies. Cornmarket  also arranged separate Legal Expenses  policies  
for Mr and Mrs S too. 
In March 2018 Mrs S parked car was hit by another driver. So a claim was made to the 
insurer A. In April Mr S called Cornmarket,  as he was concerned  that this claim wasnt being 
progressed fast enough. The other  driver had admitted liability  but Mr S was concerned 
about having a fault claim  on his wifes insurance record.  So he wanted  to know how to use 
the legal  expenses cover  to hurry things up. 
Cornmarket said it was actually early in the process  of the claim, but it transferred him to the 
legal expenses provider.  Unfortunately, that provider incorrectly  told Mr S the legal expenses 
cover was solely for personal  injury claims. 
Cornmarket also explained if insurer A recovered all of its costs in sorting out Mrs S claim,  
the incident would be recorded  as non-fault on her insurance record.  Mr S also thought he 
could use the legal  expenses cover to sort out any increased premiums the incident might 
cause him, along  with other uninsured losses. Cornmarket confirmed that insurer  A wouldnt 
increase the premium at renewal for the incident  but that the premium could be increased 
due to other ordinary  market forces.
Mr S believed the advice  was unclear  and complained. Cornmarket reiterated what  it had 
said.
However shortly after Mrs S claim was settled as non-fault,  Cornmarket sent out its renewal  
invites for the policies  Mr and Mrs S held. And it sent proof of the No Claims Discount 
(NCD). This initially had incorrect information on it, which Mr S pointed out to Cornmarket. 
Cornmarket then rectified that. 
But Mr S was unhappy because the premium had increased. Cornmarket explained this 
wasnt due to the claim but other  ordinary market  forces. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and asked for all call recordings he had with Cornmarket  and copies 
of all communications. Cornmarket  provided the call recordings via a portal,  which Mr S had 
trouble accessing.  Mr S complained further  and brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator was off the view that Cornmarket should pay Mr and Mrs S the sum of £75 
compensation, but that otherwise it didnt need  to anything further. Cornmarket agreed with 
this and paid Mr S the compensation.
Mr S remained concerned about  his issues about the legal expenses  provider. The 
adjudicator explained that would need  to be raised separately with that provider. But for this 
Ref: DRN53689732complaint, Mr S wanted an ombudsmans decision,  as he didnt agree with her view 
concerning his issues with Cornmarket.  
So his complaint concerning Cornmarket  only, has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint along  the same  lines as those  of the adjudicator. Ill now explain why.
Its clear there were  some  issues with Mr and Mrs S being able to access their documents 
from Cornmarket. But I dont hold Cornmarket  responsible for anything to do with the 
processing of Mr and Mrs S claim with insurer A, as Cornmarket doesnt process such 
claims. 
Its also clear  the proof of NCD  initially had incorrect details, which Im pleased to see 
Cornmarket rectified quickly. 
Cornmarket could have taken more care when Mr S asked to contact his legal expenses  
provider to ensure  he got to talk to the correct people or correct  department.  As that then 
caused further confusion to Mr S, which I agree was unnecessary. 
All of this did cause  Mr S some inconvenience. So I consider  its right Cornmarket  should  
pay compensation and that £75 is appropriate and in line with what  I have awarded  
previously in similar situations.  
Mr S believes that the premium increase  insurer  A gave him in the renewal invitation did 
include extra  for a non-fault.  Its very clear  from what Cornmarket  said that insurer  A 
confirmed it wasnt going rate the non-fault accident  and there  is no evidence that 
Cornmarket got this wrong. If Mr S still has a problem with this, he would need  to raise a 
complaint directly with insurer  A about it. 
Other insurers often do rate non-fault accidents  but thats entirely dependent  on their own 
internal guidelines. It therefore depends on each individual insurer  as to how they want to 
rate the perceived risk. There is no rule in the insurance market that all insurers  must rate 
something like a non-fault accident  the same.  
All claims  whether fault or not, must also be declared by the applicant.  Accidents such as 
this one where Mrs S car was parked are very frustrating, as clearly  Mrs S was wholly  not 
responsible for causing this accident  in any way, but yet the fact it happened impacts  her 
insurance record. And that further in this case as Mr S has noticed impacts premium  quotes 
from other insurers. But its clear  to me Cornmarket  gave Mr S the correct information 
concerning the premium  rise from insurer A and of course its not responsible for any other  
quote from any other provider. 
Mr S ongoing issues  with the legal expenses provider is I understand being  dealt with 
separately. And further, for the sake of clarity,  there is simply no evidence as Mr S believes, 
that Cornmarket set out to deliberately confuse or obfuscate matters.
Ref: DRN53689733my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Cornmarket Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S the sum of £75 
compensation if it hasnt  already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5368973