K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs G payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Gs comments.  However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Mr and Mrs G have said the PPI was not mentioned when they took out the loan. 
However this did happen  about  17 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone 
didnt remember all the details of what happened  that long ago. And I think  Bank of 
Scotland probably did make Mr and Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional, but that they 
still chose to take it. It is referred  to on the loan agreement  that Mr and Mrs G signed,  
with a cross in the box saying they wished to take PPI, and with details of the premium 
costs prominent  and close to where Mr and Mrs G signed.  
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a secured loan can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have  paid benefits  
at the same time as any employer sick pay was received,  and potentially  for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when they would need  to fall back on any savings. This all would 
have put Mr and Mrs G in a more secure  position, if they eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  So I think the PPI would  have been  potentially 
useful.
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs G would have  
understood how much it would  cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN58476412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  26 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5847641