K821x#15complaint
Mr L says the advice given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his personal  pension funds into a Rowanmoor Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and to facilitate investment in overseas property was unsuitable.
background
Mr L runs his own legal firm. Being  self-employed  hed made small monthly contributions  to 
an Axa retirement  annuity contract   a type of personal pension plan - since 1984.He  had no 
other pension provision.
Mr L had become disillusioned with the performance of his personal pension and the market 
situation since the financial crash. An acquaintance whod invested in overseas property  
introduced him to Mr C who was an agent  of The Resort Group  (TRG).
Mr L met with Mr C on a couple  of occasions to discuss the Cape  Verde development. He 
was informed about the strong returns available. He was told he could he could visit to see 
the properties, but he didnt take up the offer. It was Mr C who provided all the paperwork for 
him to sign.  And he was shown in those documents as Mr Ls financial adviser   although Mr 
L says he wouldnt have  categorised him as such.
Mr L was persuaded  to reserve a property in the Cape Verde development  he signed  
paperwork to this effect in August 2009 and paid required fees. Subsequently he met with 
Insight to consider  financing  matters, including his pension arrangements. This led to him 
switching his personal pension into a SIPP with Rowanmoor, which  enabled him to transact  
with TRG  for the overseas  property.
Its been difficult to piece together the key transactions on Mr Ls SIPP.  Usually  we have a 
comprehensive statement  spanning  the life of the account to review.  Unhelpfully, all weve 
been given for Mr Ls account are monthly  snapshots.
Nevertheless, I can see Mr Ls Axa pension  pot had a transfer value of around £23k. The 
switch into his SIPP was made around December 2009. In February  2010  he also made  an 
employer pension contribution of around  £11k. The bulk of these funds were transferred to 
TRG as payment on his Cape Verde property investment.
Im not aware that Mr L made any withdrawals from his SIPP account, for example tax-free 
cash (TFC). And I dont think he made  any further  contributions, other than those required to 
meet fees and charges.
Mr L told us that he became aware there might be a problem with his SIPP when people he 
knew in his local area whod made similar investments in the Cape Verde property started  to 
complain about  being  unable to access benefits from their SIPPs. Mr Ls representative says 
that in giving him advice about  and making arrangements  for the SIPP and the investment in 
overseas property, Insight  failed  in its regulatory  duties.
Insight says it didnt  give Mr L advice about the investment in overseas property. It says hed 
already made that decision and its role had simply been to identify a SIPP  provider to satisfy  
his objectives.
Ref: DRN55967092More recently Insight has suggested  that because Mr L was a solicitor, he wouldve 
understood what he was getting into with the overseas investment. It asserts  that Mr C was 
a close friend and a TRG  agent, and so Mr L wouldve gone ahead  with the investment in 
Cape Verde irrespective  of its advice. It also says he was paid a sum of money to proceed 
with the transaction worth  5% of the purchase  price, that this was paid from Mr Cs 
commission and influenced his decision to invest.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint identifying failings with Insights advice and 
arrangements. Insight disagreed and so his case has been passed to me for a decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Ls complaint
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Insight has previously disputed this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Ls case. 
Its made arguments that he made  his complaint too late.
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which  determine which complaints can be considered  
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint  if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a)  six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Its not disputed  that the event - the advice in 2009  for Mr L to transfer his pension  funds  into 
a SIPP  enabling  the investment in overseas property - took place more  than six years before 
he first complained in July 2018. But Insight says he also became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware,  of cause to complain more than three years prior to this.
Another ombudsman  has already investigated whether we have  jurisdiction for Mr Ls case 
and concluded  we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again and I 
wont be rehearsing the arguments hes already made, but Ive reached the same 
conclusion.
I note that Insight has raised  the issue of Mr L consolidating his interests  in Cape Verde  in 
September 2014, saying that this shouldve made  him aware there  was a problem with the 
investment. In the circumstances of Mr Ls case I dont think this is a telling point.
I understand TRG clients were informed about certain  options  for financing the residual 
balance of their investments, which appear to have  been ruled out a few years later. But I 
dont think dealing with the financing due on his property in 2014   which appears was 
resolved to Mr Ls satisfaction  through consolidation of his investment with nothing  further  to 
pay - wouldve alerted him to the problem hes raised.
Ref: DRN55967093Mr L took a long-term  view about when he would take the benefits from his SIPP.  He always 
hoped to work for some time beyond the age of 65 and felt he could provide for himself  in 
this way. His complaint  arose because of the problems he was told about  by other people he 
knew who were trying to take benefits from their Rowanmoor  SIPPs having made similar 
investments to him.
I cant see anything on file that makes me think Mr L knew  or ought reasonably to have 
known that there couldve  been problems with his pension arrangements  prior to early in 
2018 when he was made aware of the issues being  experienced  by other  investors.
So, Mr L has made his complaint  in time and I can consider it. This rest of my decision will 
focus on the merits of Mr Ls complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided lots of information  and argument about the events complained  
about. Ive not provided a detailed response  to all the points raised.  Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes  between financial businesses  and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ls case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Insight  for Mr L. The FCA Handbook  contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
Ref: DRN55967094And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ls best interests to make  the 
advice suitable.  And in this regard, Id expect  to see a comparison was made between  his 
old pension  and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. Although issued after the advice  given  to Mr L, this report  was a reiteration 
of existing guidance.
Ref: DRN55967095The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  UCIS  (unregulated collective  investment  scheme).
Even if the Cape Verde  investment wasnt technically a UCIS, it is unregulated  and shares 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, it being illiquid and 
subject to counter-party and development risks. So, I think these matters  are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
As the adjudicator noted, although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr L, it 
wasnt new guidance; it was the regulator re-stating its position.
did Insight adhere  to the regulatory requirements placed  on it?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr L in order to understand essential facts  about  him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pensions into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ls investment objectives  (including 
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr L was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr L had the necessary experience  or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Ref: DRN55967096From reading the case file, its seems highly unlikely that Insight  ever put itself in a position 
to meet  these obligations. For example, the fact-find which appears to have been completed  
in September  2009 is sparsely populated. Where there are gaps, the following statement is 
typical of what can be found  throughout:
Client has his own adviser  [Mr C], [Mr C] deals with the clients  financial affairs.  For this 
reason [Mr L] did not disclose any details to me which were not relevant to his pension 
objectives.
Of the little information  we can glean,  its recorded that Mr L was 55 and widowed. It didnt 
obtain any information about  his income  or outgoings. Theres  no information  about his 
assets or liabilities. Brief details about his personal  pension plan is recorded. His desire to 
retire when he was 75 is noted and when  he did retire his priority  seems to have been 
maintaining his standard of living.
I think that because  the information Insight derived from the fact-find was seriously deficient 
it provided a very precarious base  from which to offer advice about such an important 
transaction  that is the switching of Mr Ls personal pension funds into a SIPP  to facilitate 
investment in overseas property.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was recorded as high  but he didnt complete a detailed  risk 
questionnaire. At the bottom  of the form it says:
This was discussed  with your adviser who completed the attitude to risk questionnaire with 
you. You are aware that the Cape Verde  properties are high risk and are prepared  to take 
the additional risks involved  as you want to invest in the said property.
I can see that in the financial planning  report (FPR)  it prepared for Mr L dated  1 October 
2009, Insight did provide  the following warning:
I have made you aware  that the purchase  of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only 
one asset class. You stated this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape 
Verde property and are aware  of the associated  risks involved.
Ive thought about this, and some other warnings Mr L was given in the FPR. The problem 
for Insight  is that it undermines the advice it gave  like the warning  on risk through  some  of 
the additional commentary in the report. For example, immediately after this warning it says:
Furthermore your adviser will have  discussed  your risk profile  in more depth and has 
confirmed that you suit this type of investment.
This is odd, because Insight knew it hadnt got a proper handle  on his risk appetite and that 
putting money into overseas property was very high risk. I think it shouldve  advised without 
equivocation, and without seemingly to reassure Mr L by referring him back to what his 
unregulated adviser  is purported to have considered about the investment.
And while it comments on having  the bulk of his funds tied up with one asset.  It does nothing  
to draw this out meaningfully for Mr L. The FCA illustration of good  practice  was to allow for 
perhaps around 5% of someones funds to be invested in these sorts of assets (where they 
are experienced investors). Mr Ls Cape  Verde property  consumed  around 90% of his 
pension fund. And Ive seen no evidence  he was an experienced  investor.
Ref: DRN55967097Ive other  concerns. For example,  about  the level of fees and charges Mr L would be paying 
for his new pension arrangements compared  to his previous plan. Mr L also incurred  a 
penalty of around  £1,400 for switching his Axa fund.
On the matter of the duty of care Insight owed Mr L there are several  examples  where  it falls 
short. For example, it notes Mr C provided  Mr L with advice about the alternative investment 
he wanted to make. But it wouldve been  aware,  or shouldve been, that Mr C doesnt  appear 
to have been a regulated adviser.
Insight says Mr C was responsible for gathering information from Mr L for many of the key 
deliverables, such  as a fact-find and the risk questionnaire. I dont think it can rely on this to 
avoid the responsibility it had for getting to grips with the information. It had a duty to do this 
given the importance of the transaction it was about to undertake on his behalf, and for 
which it was charging  him a significant fee.
I dont think Insight took enough interest  in the getting to the bottom of Mr Cs role. And I 
cant see its drawn Mr Ls attention  to the significant  downside of dealing with unregulated 
individuals. In my view, this shouldve put Insight on alert that it was even more  important  
that it understood his objectives  and circumstances properly. Rather it seems to have skirted  
around these matters.
Its clear Mr L was referred to Insight  for advice  about moving his personal pension  to a SIPP 
so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew what he was contemplating, 
but says it wasn't  responsible for the investment advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position  is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr L. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It couldnt  do this without 
considering the suitability  of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr L, it wasnt  new guidance; it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Ls intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt  consider  
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it should  have said so - rather than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Mr L was transferring his pension funds to the SIPP  for investment in overseas property. 
Theres no duty of care exhibited here by Insight in terms of understanding  his capacity to 
withstand losses. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity issues.  And theres  no 
evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr L. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr L to sign terms of business instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation like the FPR.
The FPR Insight produced for Mr L said:
I have recommended this pension be transferred, for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN55967098You wish to use your pension fund to purchase an overseas property,  which your existing 
Axa Retirement Annuity Contract cannot  facilitate.
I have made  you aware of the penalty which will be imposed if and when the transfer  takes 
place, having  discussed this at length  with you, you still wish to proceed with the transfer.
Insight shouldve provided Mr L with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the 
switch of his pension funds into the Rowanmoor SIPP, the purpose of which  was to invest  all 
his pension plan funds into unregulated overseas  property. It failed to do this.
Instead, Insight  made arrangements  for the switch  of Mr Ls personal pension  plans into the 
SIPP. It signed off the applications using its authorisation details.  It transmitted the 
necessary applications. In doing  so, it led Rowanmoor  to believe Mr L had been properly 
advised on the transaction.
In doing all this, Insight was aware Mr L was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr L might  have 
difficulty getting access to his pension funds. The investment was specialised,  out of the 
ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty.
In a recent  submission to this Service Insight said Mr L was a close  friend of Mr C who was 
also a TRG agent. It says this means  whatever it had advised  Mr L he wouldve gone ahead  
with the investment in Cape Verde in any case. Unfortunately for Insight it doesnt have any 
paperwork to show that was the case.  It didnt advise Mr L not to go ahead. And theres no 
insistent client paperwork showing Mr L wanted to proceed in such a fashion. 
In light of these  facts, and the absence of any evidence of Mr Cs alleged influence  over Mr 
L, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude anything other than Mr L wouldve followed 
the advice of Insight had it recommended to him not to proceed with the overseas property 
investment.
Insight also says that Mr L received an incentive  to proceed worth 5% of the purchase price 
of the Cape Verde property. It says this was paid to him by the agent  from his commission.  
Mr L told us he had no recollection of having  received any incentive  from any source. He 
says if hed been given a price reduction  by TRG this should be clear from the paperwork. 
And he says he wouldve  remembered any direct payment from Mr C.
If Mr L did receive a price discount from TRG I dont find this telling  it doesnt seem  to me 
to be an unusual feature  of some negotiations. And I dont think this wouldve been 
significant in Mr Ls decision  making   5% wouldnt have represented a major discount.
I do think theres a material difference between negotiating a lower price  for the property  with 
TRG as opposed to Mr C offering Mr L a direct  payment from his commission as an agent to 
proceed with the transaction. Insight  hasnt been able to provide telling evidence that such  a 
payment was made. Mr L says it wasnt. Ive no reason to doubt  his testimony.
Even if evidence came  to light that Mr L did receive  an incentive payment from the agent, I 
wouldnt find the argument that he made the switch of his personal  pension to benefit  from a 
modest payment  persuasive. But I would make an adjustment to the redress due to Mr L to 
reflect that he benefitted from what happened  in such circumstances.
Ref: DRN55967099Insight also says that because Mr L was a solicitor, he ought  to have had a good  
understanding of the transaction he was involved in. Im not persuaded this is inevitably the 
case. While  Mr L will be well versed in certain areas  of the law, it doesnt  mean  he was 
experienced in understanding pension or investment advice.
Had this been  the case, then Mr L wouldnt have needed to seek financial advice from 
Insight. But having  sought, received and paid for such advice, he was entitled  to rely on it as 
being suitable for his circumstances.
To conclude  I dont think the switch of Mr Ls pension funds into the Rowanmoor SIPP and 
the investment  in overseas property  could sensibly be regarded  as fair to Mr L. As such  I 
think Insight failed to meet the regulatory requirements when making these arrangements.  
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  Insight  and for it to put things right.
putting things right
Mr L needs to be returned to the position he wouldve  been  in now - or as close  to that as 
reasonably possible   had it not been for the failures  which  I hold Insight responsible  for.
If Insight had done everything it shouldve, on balance  I dont  think  Mr L wouldve switched 
funds from his Axa retirement annuity contract  into the Rowanmoor SIPP  and high-risk 
overseas property investment, and so he wouldnt have suffered the illiquidity,  value 
uncertainty and financial  loss hes now facing.
In arriving at what I think is fair redress Ive tried to weigh all these matters. So, Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  must  put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional  loss Mr L has suffered as a result of making  the switch
1.1 Insight should obtain the notional value  of Mr Ls Axa pension  plan at the date of 
calculation, assuming he wouldve remained invested in the same  funds. So, as if his plans 
hadnt been switched to the Rowanmoor SIPP. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a 
notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index - prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  Total Return Index - should be used as 
Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr 
Ls pension had remained invested in his previous  plans.
1.2 I cant see that Mr L made any withdrawals from his SIPP.  But he did make 
contributions, it seems largely  to meet various  fees. After confirming the detailed position,  
the value Insight obtains, or the calculations Insight makes should  assume  any adjustments  
would still have occurred  and on the same  dates.
1.3 The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional  value  of Mr Ls 
former personal pension  plan and the current value of his SIPP including  any investments 
and cash held (see step 2), will be his basic financial  loss that Insight needs to redress.
1.4 If Insight  evidences that Mr L received  a direct payment for proceeding with his 
investment in Cape  Verde, I think it would be fair for it to make an adjustment  to the notional  
loss Mr L suffered. Thats because as Ive concluded he wouldnt have proceeded with the 
Ref: DRN559670910transaction had Insight  given him proper  advice, he clearly wouldnt have received such  a 
payment.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
2.1 To close  Mr Ls SIPP and avoid ongoing  fees,  the investments need to be crystallised. 
To do this Insight should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept 
as a commercial value for the investments and Insight can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
2.2 If Insight  is unwilling  or unable to purchase the investments, the value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Insight has 
compensated Mr L fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide  an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP. Insight will need  to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting  from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted 
for tax 
3.1 If compensation is paid into Mr Ls SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges  
and any available  tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension  plan.
3.2 If paying compensation into Mr Ls SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Insight takes on his investment, then it should  pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
3.3 The notional  allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mr L would have been able to take TFC, the reduction  should only be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
3.4 Insight should also pay interest  on the loss calculated  from the date of calculation to the 
date of payment  at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If Insight  deducts  tax 
it should provide  Mr L with a tax certificate.
3.5 Insight should also provide details of its calculations to Mr L in a clear  format.
4.SIPP fees
4.1 If the investments arent removed from Mr Ls SIPP, and it remains  open after 
compensation has been paid, Insight should pay him an amount equivalent to five years of 
future fees.  This should  allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP.
4.2 If, after five years,  Insight wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  SIPP 
Ref: DRN559670911fees. If Insight fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr L should then have the option of trying  to cancel 
the investments  to allow the plan to be closed.
5.Trouble and upset
5.1 Mr L was worried  when he found  out there were problems with his pension 
arrangements. He then had to spend  time trying to get things sorted. In recognition of this 
Insight should  pay him £300 for trouble and upset  its caused.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I require Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  to pay the redress Ive detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5596709