K820x#14Complaint
Mr S has complained that London Mutual Credit Union Limited (LMCU) did not carry out 
proper affordability  checks before providing him with loans.  Mr S says that, had further 
checks been carried out by LMCU,  it wouldve seen that he was borrowing from a number  of 
different pay day lenders.  
Background
LMCU provided Mr S with lending between  March 2014 and March 2015. Based on 
information provided to this service, a summary of Mr Ss lending  history can be found 
below:
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment date
1 £400.00 27/03/2014 10/06/2014
2 £1,500.00 29/05/2014 09/03/2015
3 £400.00 11/06/2014 28/07/2014
4 £500.00 29/07/2014 01/09/2014
4a £400.00 02/09/2014 26/09/2014
4b £500.00 29/09/2014 01/11/2014
4c £400.00 03/11/2014 02/12/2014
4d £500.00 03/12/2014 29/12/2014
4e £400.00 05/01/2015 03/02/2015
 
Mr S complained to LMCU who provided  him with a final response letter, explaining that it 
didnt think it had made an error by providing  the above lending.  Unhappy with this response 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at what LMCU and Mr S said. She thought that LMCU hadnt  
done anything  wrong when it provided  these loans. 
LMCU accepted what the adjudicator concluded  and didnt have any additional comments. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators assessment.  In response he made a number of 
comments including: 
had LMCU  reviewed  his credit file at the time it wouldve seen he was heavily in debt;
Mr S had lending with other short-term loan providers at the time;  and 
Mr S became dependent on these loans.  
As no agreement could be reached  the case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56833392To start with it may help if I outline the regulatory framework that was applicable at the time 
LMCU provided these loans to Mr S. This is important, because  what  was required  of LMCU 
before it lent to Mr S plays a key part in deciding whether  it did something wrong. 
As a credit union,  I think  its fair to say that LMCU  is looked  at and treated slightly  differently 
from other lenders  by the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). 
This can be seen in  a speech given to Credit  Unions  in January 2020 called, Is this the 
decade of the Credit  Union ? Below  Ive included some extracts of that speech,  that I think 
are useful in understanding the FCAs long term thinking around the role that credit unions  
can play in the consumer credit market.  
The need
We enter the 2020s with large numbers  of people in the United  Kingdom  having very 
low financial  resilience, as a result  of high debt, low savings or both.
By reducing  the volume  of unaffordable credit being granted by the commercial 
consumer credit sector, we are improving consumer outcomes.  And at the same 
time, were levelling the playing  field a little, so that credit unions have a better  
chance of engaging with consumers before they fall into the hands  of lenders with a 
very different set of values.
Conclusion
As we start the new decade, we have an opportunity to discuss  the vision  for the 
sector which  credit  unions would like to realise by 2030, and to be clear  about the 
roles that credit unions, government, regulators  and others would need to play for 
that vision to become  reality.1
The FCAs thinking around the use of credit unions,  and why they are different, is further  
demonstrated in the November 2018 FCA policy paper (CP18/35) called, Rent-to-own  and 
alternatives to high-cost  credit following its review  of that sector of the market. In that paper, 
the FCA said, We have also looked  at alternatives  to high-cost credit,  recognising that not 
all consumers will have  access to mainstream  credit, and that lower-cost and non-credit 
options may exist. The FCA suggested this policy paper may be of relevance to credit 
unions. 
The purpose of the review  is described  in this way:
2.4 RTO (Rent-to-Own) is just one part of our high-cost  credit  review. We are 
developing proposals for consultation and finalising measures that we consulted on 
in May 2018.  These include measures on overdrafts, home-collected credit,  
catalogue and store cards and buy now pay later deals.
And the FCA has suggested  credit unions  are a viable alternative to the types of credit  
provider outlined in 2.4:
4.45 Credit unions and community  development financial institutions (CDFI) will be a 
viable alternative  for some. However,  these have traditionally been small scale 
and/or limited to particular  geographic areas.
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/news/speeches/decade-credit-union
Ref: DRN56833393The paper then goes on to explain the following:
6.10 While there may be alternatives to high-cost credit for these customer groups, 
there are barriers to their access. In summary,  these  are:
limited availability of alternatives (supply  side)  
limited consumer  awareness of alternatives  (demand side) 
And:
6.17 At present, the main providers of alternative,  lower cost credit  for higher risk 
consumers are credit unions
This paper also briefly  touches  on the legislation that caps the interest rate for lending,  
meaning anything  below  that cap is what we call exempt.
6.19 For the protection of their members, legislation sets a lending interest rate cap 
for credit unions. Lending is capped at 3% per month (approximately 42.6% APR) in 
England, Wales and Scotland,  and at 1% (around 12.9% APR) in Northern Ireland. 
This makes credit union loans cheaper alternatives  to high-cost credit.  While  some of 
the larger credit unions have  broadened their lending  bases to include higher risk 
consumers, others do not feel able to do so within the cap, or do not wish to for 
business reasons
The agreements Mr S took out with LMCU were what are called exempt agreements. This 
means that they fell outside many  of the rules and requirements that other lenders (such  as 
payday or longer-term  lenders) needed to follow, because the LMCU lending was at a lower  
rate of interest, below the cap talked about above. Ive had to keep this in mind  when 
deciding whether or not its fair and reasonable in this case to say that LMCU did (or didnt)  
do anything wrong.  
When loan one was approved, LMCU  was overseen by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).  
From loan two, it was a regulated firm, meaning  it came  under FCA regulation  for consumer 
credit from 1 April 2014. 
The FCAs Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching  requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. And the Credit Union sourcebook (CREDS) 
10.1.3 confirms  The Principles (PRIN)  apply to all credit unions.  So in this context, I 
consider it reasonable to take into account what PRIN says.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
PRIN is applicable to all FCA regulated lenders. So, I must consider LMCUs overarching 
responsibility to treat Mr S fairly.  
As Ive explained, these  loans are exempt agreements.  That said, the credit  union trade  
body  the Association of British Credit Union  Limited (ABCUL), of which  LMCU is a member 
 explained in a response to FCA consultation  paper CP13/10 (which detailed  proposals for 
FCA regulation of consumer credit  industry):
Ref: DRN56833394Ahead of its officially  inheriting oversight of consumer credit regulation from April 
2014, the Financial  Conduct Authority is running a high-profile consultation which  
looks at the detailed regulatory  framework  which it proposes to adopt.   While much of 
this will only affect credit unions indirectly  given the exemption of credit union  loans  
from consumer credit regulation, it is still important  that credit  unions are aware of the 
regulations others in the industry are required to comply with.2
Although the above press  release reaffirms that LMCU are exempt from some of the 
consumer credit regulations, the response to the consultation does suggest that LMCU 
needed to be aware of the regulations that other consumer credit  lenders and providers of 
non-exempt agreements needed to adhere to. And these wider industry regulations can be 
found in the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)  section 5, which outlines a firms 
obligation in relation to responsible lending. 
In addition, following  the FCAs review of high cost credit creditworthiness  assessments 
outlined in CONC, ABCUL  said:
The FCA also published a new consultation  on clarified rules and guidance in 
relation to creditworthiness and affordability assessments.  While most credit  union 
lending is exempt  from these requirements, they should always be looked  to as best 
practice and we will be summarising and circulating details of these proposals in due 
course.  The consultation focuses particularly on the distinction between  credit risk 
and affordability,  the use of income  and expenditure information and considerations 
for lenders in making  their assessments  proportionate.3
So, LMCU is a regulated firm and its own industry trade body has said it is good industry 
practice to be mindful of the wider  rules and regulations that other consumer credit providers 
are required  to abide by. That seems  fair and reasonable to me. 
Indeed, when considering  Mr Ss case Im required to consider all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  As such,  I think its 
right to take into account the wider industry regulations at the time, which  can be found  in 
CONC 5 and 6. After all, Im required to consider good industry practice   amongst other  
things  when  reaching my decision in this case.  
As Ive mentioned,  CONC 5 and CONC 6 were  introduced in April 2014.  As is evident from 
the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back  to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions. (That was the OFT guidance 
that the consumer  credit  industry was expected to follow  up to the point the FCA took over 
regulation in April 2014.)
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
2 https://www.abcul.coop/viewdocument/financial-conduct-authority-cp-13-1
3 https://www.abcul.coop/blogs/patrick-thorpe/2019/01/28/fca-publishes-review-of-high-cost-credit
Ref: DRN56833395[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate  in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit  not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted  and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making  the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Ss loans were given to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. Section 140A 
says:
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
Ref: DRN56833396(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of the ILG and states:
Ref: DRN56833397(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application  for credit  under a regulated  credit  agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer  has not been 
truthful in completing  the application in relation  to information supplied by the 
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
From a regulatory perspective, there are exemptions from CONC for certain types of loans  
which, as Ive explained, are the same loans which were provided to Mr S by LMUC. But It is 
clear, in the wider  industry publications,  that CONC is at least  considered best practice. And 
in terms of treating  customers  fairly, which LMCU was required to do as a regulated lender, 
Im going  to keep  this in mind. 
The complaint
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it seems that Mr S was provided with a number of different products by LMCU: 
loans 1 and 3 were  payday loans with repayments to be made over three monthly 
instalments; 
loan 2 was a longer-term consolidation loan, to be repaid over 12 months  (payments of 
£134 per month). But importantly,  the balance was secured on shares that Mr S had with 
LMCU; and
loan 4 was a revolving payday loan  where Mr S could draw up to his credit  limit (in 
this case £500).  
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about the checks  that LMCU carried out. 
LMCU called  some  of the loans payday  loans but these loans were not high cost short term 
credit loans (HCSTC)  in the traditional sense as defined by the FCA. The FCA defines 
HCSTC as fulfilling the following criteria: 
a borrower  lender agreement
the APR is equal  to or exceeds 100%
the credit  should be substantially  repaid within a maximum of 12 months from the 
date the credit is given.4
The loans provided to Mr S were  due to be repaid within a number of months. However, they 
dont fall under the above definition  because  the APR for each loan was around 42.6%. This 
is important, because it is well below the threshold  outlined above. So, it is clear the loans  
provided by LMCU are not HCSTC lending as defined by the FCA. 
4 https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/glossary/G3328.html
Ref: DRN56833398When thinking about what, if anything, LMCU has done wrong, Ive kept in mind  all the wider 
industry regulation  Ive listed above,  and what LMCU says about these loans. And Ive 
distilled my thinking into the following  questions:
Did LMCU  complete  reasonable checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be able to repay 
his loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been  able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where LMCU ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing Mr Ss indebtedness in 
a way that was harmful  and / or unfair so shouldnt have provided further loans?
Did LMCU  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way?
If I determine that LMCU didnt act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr S, and that he 
has lost out as a result,  I will go on to consider whether compensation is due. 
Did LMCU complete reasonable checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be able to repay the 
loans in a sustainable way? 
Good industry practice at the time for LMCU ought to have led it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment as to whether Mr S could afford  to repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
The industry guidance at the time,  as Ive mentioned above, spoke about borrower  focused  
assessment. So LMCU needed  to think about  whether repaying the loan sustainably  would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Mr S. 
LMCU also needed to think about  what a reasonable check  would be, in the circumstances  
of each application. And the guidance  at the time suggested that a number of factors needed 
to be considered, such as Mr Ss financial history,  current  situation  and outlook,  any 
indications of vulnerability or financial  difficulty and the amount of credit he was asking for. 
Effectively, this means that the information  LMCU may have needed to have gathered  before 
approving each loan would evolve  over time, depending on what  it knew about Mr S. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable check ought generally to have  been  more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN56833399refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Were LMCUs checks reasonable?
When thinking about whether LMCU carried out reasonable  checks, Ive kept in mind that 
Mr S was provided with a number of different products, the products were  exempt  
agreements, and the fact that Mr S borrowed from a credit union and not either  a 
mainstream lender  or a high cost credit provider. 
From what  Ive seen, for each loan LMCU appears  to have asked Mr S to declare his income 
and LMCU has shown  that it took on at least one occasion a copy  of Mr Ss payslip as well 
as letter  from his employer. So, Im satisfied that LMCU had a fairly  accurate idea of his 
actual income from at least loan two. 
LMCU also appeared to have asked Mr S some  fairly detailed information  about his living 
costs such as mortgage, utility bills and other loans. And, based on what  LMCU gathered, it 
wouldve appeared to it that Mr S wouldve been able to afford the loan repayments that he 
was committed to repaying. 
LMCU also appears to have carried out credit scoring exercises before approving some of 
the loans and indeed this appeared  to be the main  way it approved  the payday loans it 
provided to Mr S. Given the amounts borrowed, I dont consider this to be an unreasonable  
check. 
For loan two it looks like LMCU was provided  with an overview from a well-known credit  
reference agency  which I believe Mr S provided.  And having looked  at this overview, there 
wasnt anything in it to suggest to LMCU  that Mr S was either having financial difficulties or 
was dependent on other  forms of lending (such  as pay-day lending). 
However, LMCU was aware of two defaults. One recorded in 2013 and one at the start of 
2014. But there wasnt anything else in the checks that wouldve alerted LMCU to wider 
problems, and given  the dates of the defaults,  I dont think this ought  to, in itself,  have led 
LMCU to decline the applications or ask Mr S for further information.  
Before loan two was granted LMCU gathered copies of Mr Ss bank  statements . Ive 
considered these statements because if a review  of them suggested  Mr S wouldnt be able 
to afford to repay the loan, then LMCU ought not have provided  it. 
Having looked  at the statements,  there is some other borrowing, but there is no indication 
from what Ive seen  that Mr S couldnt  afford  the repayments to LMCU, even factoring those 
other existing repayments in. So, based on what LMCU wouldve seen on the bank 
statements, it wouldve likely  concluded  and reasonably so  that the loans were 
affordable. 
There also isnt any other  indication, such as how Mr S repaid the earlier loans,  to have led 
LMCU to believe that it needed to carry out further  or more detailed  checks as its lending 
relationship with him progressed. Indeed, the information gathered by LMCU indicated  that 
he would  be in a position to repay these loans. 
I accept that Mr Ss full circumstances  may not have been  entirely  reflected  in the 
information he provided, or the other information LMCU obtained. And Mr Ss actual financial 
Ref: DRN568333910position might well have  been apparent if further information   such  as bank statements or a 
full credit check  had been  taken at other points in the lending relationship. 
But, overall, I think the checks that LMCU carried out before it provided these loans went  far 
enough. The checks that it did do demonstrated  to it that Mr S would be in a position  to 
repay these  loans. So, I dont think it was wrong  of LMCU to have given Mr S his lending.
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
LMCU ought reasonably  to have realised it was increasing Mr Ss indebtedness  in a way that 
was harmful and / or unfair so shouldnt have provided further  loans?
This is a further consideration  because  in addition to assessing the circumstances behind 
each individual  loan provided to Mr S by LMCU, I also think  its fair and reasonable to look at 
the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded  during the course of Mr Ss lending  
relationship with LMCU. 
Im mindful here that wider industry rules and guidance  as summarised  in the earlier  part of 
this decision  make it clear that a lender shouldnt continue lending  where the loans are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties. And it seems to me that there may come a point at which a 
responsible lender ought fairly and reasonably to question whether  continuing to offer further 
lending to a customer  who appears  to be persistently  and repeatedly reliant upon borrowing 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. And Ive carefully considered whether that point 
was reached in this case.
But, looking  at the individual circumstances of this case, I dont think either the number of 
loans, or the time that Mr S had been  indebted  to LMCU, shouldve led it to conclude  that 
Mr S had become  reliant and/or dependent on this lending. 
Did LMCU act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mr S in some  other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything so 
far that leads me to conclude  that LMCU acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in 
some other way. 
conclusions
Overall, and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions set out above , 
Ive seen nothing  that would lead me to conclude that LMCU acted unfairly  or unreasonably 
when it provided  these loans to Mr S. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with the 
outcome but I want to assure him that I have  considered all the evidence that has been  
provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint, and I make  no award 
against London Mutual Credit Union Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Ref: DRN568333911Robert Walker 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5683339