K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G).  Hes unhappy  
with how L&G has handled setting up his annuity and what  it has proposed  to do to put 
things right. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 13 August 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
Mr O had a financial adviser  Ill refer to as HL. HL provided Mr O with assistance  
throughout the process of him purchasing an annuity using his pension fund.
L&G provided HL with an annuity  quote  for Mr O in October 2018.  It offered an annuity of 
£3,052.80 per annum. L&Gs quote  was guaranteed for a limited period.
Mr O accepted L&Gs annuity quote  within the limited period and returned the relevant forms 
to HL. HL passed these  onto L&G. L&G began the process of setting up Mr Os annuity  and 
requested Mr Os funds from his ceding  scheme.  L&G received Mr Os funds on 1 November 
2018.
L&G later provided HL with final confirmation  for Mr Os annuity.  HL noticed the 3% 
escalation Mr O had originally requested hadnt  been included as part of the annuity  L&G 
said it was setting up for Mr O. HL made L&G aware  of this on 13 November 2019 and 
further to this Mr O and HL raised concerns about  what had happened with L&G.
L&G investigated the matter and explained it was having issues  with its system. It advised 
Mr O it would honour its original quote that hed accepted but said it needed to work  out how 
to do this. L&G referred the matter to its actuaries on 15 November 2018.
Between 15 November  and 4 December 2018  Mr O and HL repeatedly chased L&G for an 
update on what  was happening.  L&G advised its actuaries were  still reviewing  the matter.
Mr O and HL later expressed concerns about how long it was taking  L&G to come  up with a 
solution and said they feared its delays would result  in Mr O being worse off financially. 
L&G said it was still reviewing things  and would be in touch.
L&G continued to chase its actuaries and investigate how a concession could be applied on 
its system to secure the annuity Mr O had applied for. To acknowledge the time taken to 
resolve the matter  L&G paid Mr O £150 compensation. It also offered to put Mr Os annuity  
into payment at the lower (correct) annual annuity  amount of £1,801.44 until it could work 
out how to apply the concession required on its system to secure  the annuity Mr O had 
accepted.
Mr O considered L&Gs offer but on 5 December 2018 HL advised L&G that Mr O didnt want 
the lower annuity  to be put into payment. His preference was to wait until L&G worked out 
how to pay his annuity based  on the original quotation hed accepted.
On 3 January  2019 HL contacted Mr O and advised L&G had confirmed it wouldnt be 
honouring its original  incorrect  annuity  quote but would  compensate  him with £500 for 
trouble and upset  caused by what happened. L&G said Mr O could either proceed with an 
annuity with L&G on a corrected basis or choose not to go ahead with an annuity with L&G 
Ref: DRN52285012at all. HL asked Mr O how he wanted to proceed  and said that having reviewed the matter  
L&G was still providing the highest income. 
Mr O responded to HL saying L&G had provided a guaranteed  quotation  hed accepted and 
as it had accepted his funds withdrawing  the annuity  quote  now was unacceptable.
L&G later provided Mr O with a corrected annuity  quote which  offered an annual annuity  
income of £1,954.92. Following this Mr O emailed HL. He said that while  L&Gs revised 
annuity quote appeared to be the most  competitive it was considerably  lower  than the 
original quote  hed accepted.                         
HL replied to Mr O and in summary  said:
L&G had made an error with its original annuity  quote by using the incorrect fund 
value received from Mr Os ceding scheme.  But this wasnt the main cause for the 
drop in annual income- L&G had also failed to incorporate  the 3% escalation despite 
this being shown as included in its quote
it had forwarded  Mr Os emails  to L&G 
L&Gs revised quote did include a backdated start date of 1 November 2018 (to 
account for when  Mr Os annuity shouldve commenced)
Mr O responded to HL and asked what his other options were in the circumstances. 
Specifically he queried  taking a lump  sum and asked what monthly  income he might receive 
if he accepted  an L&G annuity on a different basis.
HL responded  to Mr O the following day and provided another  annuity quote  for Mr O to 
consider. Regarding Mr Os lump  sum query HL said that in order to do this Mr O would 
need to return  tax free cash hed received to his ceding scheme  and L&G would have  to 
return Mr Os fund. However  HL said that having  spoken to Mr Os ceding scheme it had 
confirmed it wouldnt take back Mr Os funds  given how much time had passed  since theyd 
been sent to L&G.
Mr O considered his position but said he still stood by and wanted the original quote L&G 
had provided which  hed accepted. 
Mr O discussed his concerns with L&G on 14 January  2019.  He said that because  of L&Gs 
errors and delays hed missed out on the opportunity to explore his other  retirement options. 
Mr O asked L&G to offer more substantial  compensation for what happened  and said he was 
prepared to accept  a revised  annuity backdated to 1 November  2018  as a compromise. 
On 28 January 2019 L&G sent its final response to Mr Os complaint. In summary it said:
its understanding was Mr O was unhappy  with the delay in his annuity  being set up 
and an incorrect annuity quote  having  been issued
it was sorry for the errors and delays that had occurred 
it had told HL it was referring the matter of Mr Os annuity to its actuarial team  but 
unfortunately the turnaround times for their decisions were  long.  So it had paid Mr O 
£150 for the delay 
its actuarial team  later confirmed it wouldnt honour the original quotation Mr O 
accepted as it had been based  on erroneous information
in recognition of what happened it had offered Mr O £500 compensation which  it felt 
was fair and agreed his annuity  would  be backdated to 1 November 2018
Ref: DRN52285013Mr O remained  disappointed and said that despite  admitting  its mistake  L&G hadnt  
recognised that because  of how long it had taken to decide how matters  should be resolved 
hed lost the opportunity to seek alternative  retirement options.  Mr O also reminded L&G that 
it had yet to confirm the actual annuity it was offering him.
L&Gs position remained  the same but it arranged for a new quote to be sent to Mr O. Mr O 
later went  ahead with an L&G annuity. An annuity was set up 4 February 2019 and 
backdated to 1 November 2018.  The £500  compensation offered  to Mr O was also paid. 
As Mr O remained unhappy he referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the matter  and that while she agreed  L&G had made a mistake she felt the 
compensation it had paid was fair. She also said L&G was entitled to correct its mistake and 
provide Mr O with the annuity he was entitled to.
Mr O disagreed with our investigator and in summary said:
although L&G had accepted its error and compensated him to a certain extent,  it had 
nevertheless committed to honouring the quote  he originally accepted
L&G had maintained its position  to honour its original quote and Mr O had accepted 
this commitment in good faith. L&Gs promise prevented him from seeking other 
quotes and moving his funds to an alternative provider
by the time L&G decided  not to honour  its commitment Mr O had already lost the 
opportunity to move his fund elsewhere and because of this he stood to lose out on 
future income
Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to partially 
uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of all the arguments  made by both parties, I have limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say:
whether Mr O is entitled to the annuity  outlined  in L&Gs original quote which  was 
later discovered to be incorrect
whether L&G has appropriately compensated Mr O for what happened
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr O. Theres  no dispute about  the fact L&G 
made an error with the annuity quote it originally issued. Mr O accepted L&Gs quote in good 
faith. And when it later became  apparent  L&G had made a mistake and overstated the 
annuity available,  Mr O was understandably upset and very disappointed. L&G unfairly 
raised Mr Os expectations.
As L&G has explained, the issue with the original quote it provided (and the one Mr O later 
accepted) was incorrect not only because the income quoted didnt reflect Mr Os correct  
fund value, but it also failed to include the 3% escalation Mr O had asked for. As a result of 
these errors  L&Gs quote  effectively offered Mr O an annuity his fund value didnt support.
Ref: DRN52285014The issue  I have to decide is whether the action L&G has taken satisfactorily resolves the 
matter and sufficiently  compensates  Mr O for what has happened.  
Mr O would like L&G to honour its original  quote not only because  the quote  was guaranteed 
but also because  once L&G recognised it had made  an error with the quote it had said it 
would still honour  the quote as Mr O had accepted it.
Ive considered what Mr O has said about  the quote  being guaranteed. But having done so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to direct L&G to honour it. Although  the quote did say it 
was guaranteed  for a certain  period, it was based  in a number of errors.  I dont consider 
that L&G is contractually bound to honour  the incorrect  quote. In addition  to this I cant fairly 
say L&G should  be bound  by the incorrect information it provided and pay Mr O the annuity 
he was incorrectly led to expect would be available to him. It wouldnt be fair for Mr O to 
benefit financially  because of L&Gs mistake. If I told L&G to pay Mr O the original annuity  he 
was quoted hed receive  money  he wasnt entitled  to. I dont intend to direct  L&G to 
compensate Mr O in this way.
In a situation like this, we aim to put consumers back in the position they would have  been  
in, had the correct  information been given, rather than a business being bound  by the 
incorrect information it did give. So for Mr O, the correct information  is that hes entitled to 
the revised annuity L&G has set up for him and not the overstated  incorrect annuity  he was 
originally quoted. 
L&G apologised for its mistake and paid Mr O £500  compensation  for trouble and upset 
caused. It also acknowledged it took too long to reach a decision about how it would resolve  
the issue with Mr Os annuity and paid him £150 in respect of this. 
Following its error L&G set up an annuity  on a corrected basis  for Mr O and backdated it to 1 
November 2018  when his annuity  shouldve originally commenced.
Given the nature of L&Gs error  Im satisfied its payment of £500 compensation was fair. 
L&G unfairly raised Mr Os expectations  at an important time and led him to think  hed 
secure an annuity income it later transpired he was never actually entitled  to. Given  the level 
of disappointment and frustration  L&Gs  error wouldve been caused  I think £500 
appropriately reflects the seriousness  of what happened. I also agree that L&G took too long 
time to establish how itd put matters right for Mr O. So I think its right that L&G paid Mr O 
£150 compensation for this. From  the correspondence Ive seen both Mr O and his HL 
adviser had to repeatedly chase L&G for updates  on how the issue with Mr Os annuity was 
to be resolved. The absence of any resolution in a timely fashion wouldve only added to the 
concerns Mr O already  had about his annuity.  
L&Gs payment  of Mr Os annuity based on his correct fund value and the type of annuity he 
ultimately requested  is the resolution  Id expect to see in the circumstances.  I also consider 
that as L&G accepts Mr Os annuity  shouldve started 1 November 2018 its correct that 
Mr Os annuity was backdated so he wasnt financially  disadvantaged by L&Gs  error and 
subsequent delays.
Although Im largely of the view L&G has done  a number of things to put matters  right for 
Mr O, Im not completely  satisfied it has gone far enough. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN52285015As well as issuing an incorrect quote and taking  too much time to reach a resolution  I think  
L&G caused  Mr O additional distress when following the discovery of its mistake  it effectively 
promised that its original quote, albeit incorrect would still be honoured.
Mistakes do happen  and while not ideal  I can understand how L&Gs  incorrect  quote may 
have been generated  in the first place. But something which  I believe was avoidable  and 
should never have  happened was that L&G offered a resolution, maintained this over a 
period of time and provided repeated assurances, only for L&G to later withdraw  that 
resolution and in doing so possibly prejudice  Mr Os position and cause real disappointment.  
Once its error was discovered I dont think L&G shouldve said it would honour  an annuity 
quote it knew to be incorrect without first being sure this was something it could do or was 
definitely prepared  to do. A Provider  agreeing  to honour an incorrect quote isnt common  
practice so it surprises me L&G said it was prepared to do this in the first place. In doing so I 
think L&G compounded  its original unfortunate error. It seems to me the most reasonable 
and appropriate  action for L&G to have taken at the time wouldve been to acknowledge its 
mistake and advise Mr O and HL that itd work  with its actuaries to establish a fair resolution. 
I understand L&G may perhaps initially have said it would honour its original (incorrect) 
quote based on a genuine belief this was the right thing to do in the circumstances. But as a 
decision of this nature was something  which it appears would ultimately always  have been 
the responsibility of its actuarial and conduct  risk team to decide  it simply wasnt  appropriate 
for any other  team at L&G to give Mr O and his adviser the misleading assurances  the 
original quote  would  be honoured.
In saying that it would honour its original quote L&G arguably gave Mr O the false  sense of 
security that irrespective of the time it was taking to resolve matters, hed still receive the 
annuity hed originally applied for. L&Gs mistaken promise  in this regard made what  was 
already an unfortunate situation for Mr O even worse. I think the assurances L&G provided 
to Mr O and his adviser about the annuity Mr O would ultimately  receive wouldve impacted 
the action (and inaction) Mr O took while he waited  for things to be resolved by L&G.
Had L&G been  clear  at the outset  with Mr O either  about the fact it couldnt honour its 
incorrect quote or that it would first need  its actuaries to consider the matter before it could 
provide a definitive decision (with the possibility it might not honour the original quote) Mr O 
couldve had the opportunity to consider alternative retirement options with his adviser  at the 
earliest possible stage.  Mr O couldve  thought about potentially  securing an annuity 
elsewhere or as subsequent conversations between Mr O and HL reflects,  perhaps  even  
taking a lump sum.
L&G deprived Mr O of the opportunity to fully consider his position  and make  an informed 
decision when considering what to do next.  And for this I think its appropriate pays  Mr O 
further compensation in addition to what has already been paid. For the reasons Ive 
explained I think an additional £350 should be paid in recognition of how L&G unfairly raised  
Mr Os expectations further and deprived  him of the opportunity to fully consider his options  
at the time its error was identified.  Specifically I understand that by the time L&G made  Mr O 
and his adviser aware it wouldnt  be honouring its incorrect quote, his ceding  scheme  
werent prepared  to accept his funds back in order for him to potentially take a lump  sum. 
And this was because  of how much time had passed.
From the available evidence it seems  to me more  likely than not that Mr O wouldve always 
proceeded with an annuity with L&G. Both Mr O and his adviser  seemed to agree at the time 
Ref: DRN52285016L&G provided a corrected annuity  that L&Gs annuity was () the most  competitive  and 
provided the highest income. On this basis I cannot conclude Mr Os suffered any financial 
loss. But I do still think L&Gs misguided  attempt to put things right made things worse and 
deprived Mr O of the opportunity to fully consider his options. As this wouldve caused Mr O 
further worry and upset I consider L&G should  pay Mr O a further £350 compensation to 
fairly reflect the impact  of what  happened. This would bring the total compensation paid to 
Mr O to £1,000.   
I invited Mr O and L&G to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr O responded and in summary said:
L&G had on more  than one occasion  said it would honour its original quote, so its 
word should be [its] bond
L&G not honouring its original quote  would cause him to lose thousands of 
pounds over the course of his pension
L&G responded and accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision the 
same as before (and as set out above). That means  Im upholding Mr Os complaint in part 
for the reasons Ive given.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr O has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
Im afraid Im unable  to agree with the points  hes raised. While  I completely appreciate  Mr 
Os frustration and disappointment with what has happened here I dont think it would be fair 
to direct L&G to honour the original quote.  I cant reasonably conclude L&G is contractually 
bound to honour the original quote it provided Mr O with when it was incorrect.  
I understand Mr O still feels strongly that hes lost out financially as a result of L&G not 
honouring the original quote. But again,  Im unable to agree. Mr O was never entitled to what  
L&G outlined in its original  quote  so Im not persuaded that by not securing that quote that 
any financial  loss has been  sustained in the way Mr O has suggested.
I recognise that Mr O will likely be disappointed with my decision. But I havent  been 
persuaded to change  it. That means Im upholding  Mr Os complaint to the extent  that I 
require L&G to pay Mr O a further £350  compensation  to fairly reflect  the impact of what 
happened. This would  bring  the total compensation paid to Mr O to £1,000.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order  to resolve this matter  I order  
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay Mr O £350  for trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Ref: DRN52285017Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228501