K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed for many  years to provide  
information about what final/terminal bonuses it was applying to the type of with-profits  policy 
Mr R held. He says this meant  he was unable to make an informed decision as to whether  to 
leave his pension  pot in place or transfer  it. 
background
In 1986 Mr R opened a with-profits personal pension policy  with Aviva. The policy  included  
provision for a final bonus.
On 9 July 2018 Mr R emailed Aviva, asking that it provide him the average percentage or 
range of the final,  terminal or similar  bonuses paid in relation to his type of policy. On 24 July 
he asked that his email  request be passed  to the complaints team,  as he hadnt  received a 
response. 
On 26 July Aviva apologised for the failure to respond and gave him £50 compensation for 
that. It said it would  supply the information as soon as it was received from its actuaries. It 
told Mr R he could refer his complaint to us. 
Between early  August  and early October there were a number of communications  between 
Mr R and Aviva concerning further aspects of the history of final bonus  payments and policy.  
During these exchanges  Mr R indicated that his complaint was that Aviva hadnt treated him 
fairly by supplying full and relevant  information  concerning terminal bonuses.  Aviva  
responded to a number of Mr Rs queries, but as he was still dis-satisfied he came  to our 
service. 
Mr Rs complaint to us was that for many years Aviva had failed to indicate what it was doing 
with final/terminal bonuses. He said this was a major factor in whether to leave  a pension pot 
in place or transfer elsewhere. Aviva had failed to provide information so he could make an 
informed decision.  
Our adjudicator thought Aviva  had dealt with his complaint  fairly.  She said there  was no legal 
or regulatory requirement for with-profit providers such as Aviva  to inform policyholders of 
their changing  approach  to final bonuses. 
Mr R disagreed. He didnt think hed been treated fairly - relevant information  hadnt been 
provided to him, at appropriate stages, to enable him to make an informed decision. He also 
didnt think hed been given enough  time to respond to our adjudicators  view.  She said she 
was sorry for this and gave him an opportunity to provide  any comments  he wished to for 
consideration by an ombudsman.  
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ive only referred to those facts  and 
issues that I think are relevant to the complaint  he brought to us in late October 2018. I can 
see that Mr R feels  very strongly  that he wouldve been assisted in his decision-making  by 
being informed  of the final bonus being  paid on policies  like his each year. But Im afraid Im 
Ref: DRN57561242going to have to disappoint  him, as I dont think Aviva need do anything further in response 
to his complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Aviva wasnt  under  any obligation to provide the information Mr R wanted  about changes to 
the calculation  of final bonuses to him as a matter of course. There  was no regulatory 
requirement for it to do so. So I dont think Aviva has done  anything wrong by not providing 
him with information  in the way Mr R has asked for.
 Aviva does provide  information about its approach to calculating bonuses  and the 
management of its with-profits  fund. This is set out in the principles and practices  it follows  
when managing its with-profits funds. This includes its approach to the application of 
bonuses to with-profits funds. Our adjudicator gave Mr E a copy of Avivas Principles and 
Practices of Financial Management. But Aviva wasnt obliged to provide a copy of this 
document unless  requested.
I understand Mr R thinks he wasnt given relevant information he needed in order to make an 
informed decision.  But as Ive said, Aviva wasnt required to provide the information Mr R 
sought in the way he wanted it to. 
Theres no doubt that Aviva didnt  respond  to Mr Rs request  for information made in early 
July 2018 in a timely  manner. Its acknowledged this and paid Mr R £50 compensation, 
which I think is fair. So although I know it will disappoint Mr R, Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5756124