K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about twenty-seven payday loans Quick  Quid  provided to Miss B from May 
2009 onwards.  Miss Bs last loan was provided in June 2014.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought the loans from loans nine 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt accept  our adjudicators view in full. And Miss B didnt accept the offer 
Quick Quid made. As the parties havent  been  able to agree on a resolution the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Miss B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Miss B could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. And I think that this is wider 
than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
Ref: DRN53352602pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss B, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss B was unlikely to have been able to 
make his loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan five. I say 
this because:
By this stage, Miss B was into her tenth consecutive month of owing Quick Quid  
money. In my view,  Miss Bs pattern  of borrowing up until this point was in itself a 
clear demonstration  of Miss Bs inability to settle  her loans over the life of the credit  
agreement. Miss Bs fifth loan was taken  on the same day that she eventually  repaid 
loan four.   
Miss B continued to be provided with new loans  shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Miss B was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of her previous loans left in 
her finances and that Miss Bs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. 
Miss B was provided with loans for a pretty much unbroken period of over five years. 
This cant reasonably  be considered to be short-term and it meant  that Miss B wasnt  
making any real inroads  into what she owed Quick  Quid and her indebtedness was 
being prolonged for an extended  period  of time.  Miss B paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss B lost out because  Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time Miss B owed Quick Quid money was likely to have  had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding the complaint and Quick Quid  should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on payday loans  five to twenty-  six;
Ref: DRN53352603pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan twenty-seven  from the outset. Any 
payments Miss B has made  towards loan twenty-seven so far should be deducted  
from the new starting balance;
the period  of time Miss B owed Quick  Quid money means that any information 
recorded about loans five to twenty-seven is adverse. So all entries about these 
loans should be removed from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan twenty-seven  even after all the 
interest and charges are removed. Quick Quid  can deduct this outstanding balance from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Miss B should it wish to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  Casheuronet  UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5335260