K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Skipton Building Society  mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
Briefly:
Mr and Mrs F first took out a mortgage with Skipton  in 1985. Later on in 1986 Mr and Mrs F 
took out PPI by post following receipt  of a mailing. This policy cost around £7 a month.
Mr and Mrs F subsequently borrowed more money by way of further advances in 1993 and 
1996 and the PPI policy was increased  to cover the additional overall  monthly mortgage 
payment.
The policy was in Mr Fs sole name and it covered disability and redundancy.
Skiptons records show  this mortgage account closed in 1996.
In 1996 Mr and Mrs F took out another mortgage and the same  time they also took out a 
new PPI policy  again in Mr Fs name only. This was carried out during a branch meeting.  
This policy cost around £15 a month.
Skiptons records show  this mortgage account closed in 2001.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said in relation to the PPI supporting the 
first mortgage, the evidence shows Mr and Mrs F chose  to take out and then increase the 
PPI by completing and signing the necessary separate applications. And there  was nothing 
to indicate PPI was inappropriate  for them.
For the later mortgage they said that Mr and Mrs F benefitted from a preferential  interest  rate 
on their mortgage by having PPI. And in any event there was nothing to indicate  they 
wouldnt have benefitted from the policy.
Mr and Mrs F, through their representative,  disagree  so the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
For ease I have set out my decision under  separate  headings to cater for each time Mr and 
Mrs F took out PPI.
Ref: DRN55259472PPI taken out with mortgage account ending 003 
1986
For the PPI policy  taken out in 1986, its important to point out that this pre-dates the first 
industry code and guidance  produced by the Association of British Insurers  (ABI)  the ABI 
Code for all intermediaries selling general  insurance issued which  was issued in 1989. As 
such my considerations  for this particular sale are confined to the law and best practice at 
the time.
In summary  I think this means if Skipton advised  Mr and Mrs F it needed to do so with 
reasonable care and skill. And it shouldve refrained  from making  material  
misrepresentations about the policy.
The first sale in 1986 was a sale by post. And Ive not seen anything to indicate  Skipton 
advised Mr and Mrs F  for example there was no interaction with a representative of the 
business.
did Skipton give Mr and Mrs F a choice about  PPI?
Mr and Mrs F already had their mortgage  agreed  at the point they received  a mailing about 
PPI. Because  of this I cant see how Mr and Mrs F would have been given the impression 
they had to have PPI. To take out the policy they had to complete the application and post it 
back. And this is what they did  Skipton still has a copy of their application.
So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F chose PPI and they agreed to take it out.
the information
As I set out above, my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable when looking at what  
happened in 1986 is primarily confined to common law. And in summary I consider this 
means Skipton  had to refrain from making  material  representations about the policy.  And 
having considered what information  is still available from the time, Ive seen nothing  which  
leads me to think Skipton misrepresented things  the policy  set out the nature of the cover; 
in what circumstances  a claim could be made / not made; and how the cost was calculated.
In any event theres nothing about Mr Fs circumstances  which would have made  it difficult 
for him to make a claim and so it seems it was appropriate for him.
1991 and 1993
It would appear that on both occasions  Mr and Mrs F took out PPI during branch meetings  
when they applied for further borrowing. While these were carried out with a representative 
of the business,  Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it advised  Mr and Mrs F.
did Skipton give Mr and Mrs F a choice about  PPI?
Again Skipton has provided copies of the paperwork from both 1991 and 1993. And here I 
can see on both occasions  Mr and Mrs F indicated they wanted PPI on their further advance 
applications  there  were  Yes and No options  provided. They  also completed and signed 
separate PPI applications, so Im satisfied  they chose and agreed to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN55259473the information
I accept its possible that the information  Skipton gave  Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  On both occasions Mr F wasnt affected  by any of the key exclusions or limitations 
of cover  for example  he was employed  and in good health. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong   Mr F didnt have any sick pay beyond 
statutory sick pay (Mr F remained  with the same  employer.) It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover. 
PPI taken out with mortgage account ending 7003 
1996
Skipton has said this was an advised  sale where it recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs F. In 
the absence of evidence to the contrary and given this is Skiptons own testimony about how 
it sold PPI to Mr and Mrs F at the time, I see no reason to consider it was carried out any 
other way.
did Skipton give Mr and Mrs F a choice about  PPI?
I can see the adjudicator  said Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage required them to take out PPI  they 
received a preferential interest rate (a discounted rate for a fixed  period of time) by taking  out 
an insurance product  provided by Skipton.
It appears from the mortgage application that to qualify for the preferential rate Mr and Mrs F 
had to take out one insurance product  and Im satisfied this was made  clear.  But looking at 
their mortgage application  it appears  Mr and Mrs F also took out Skiptons buildings  and 
contents insurance as well as PPI. So either one of these products meant they were eligible 
for the mortgage  they took out.
In any event  whether  to qualify for their particular mortgage or not - Im satisfied Mr and 
Mrs F chose  PPI and agreed to take it out by completing and signing the necessary 
application.
the advice and the information
Skipton recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr F wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
given his level of sick pay and their joint other means (they  said they could have  relied on 
friends / family and they had some  savings)  they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Again I accept its possible the information provided wasnt as clear or as timely as it 
couldve been. But for the reasons why I think the policy was suitable,  I dont  think  theyd 
have acted differently  and declined PPI if Skipton had done  more.
Overall this means that I dont think Mr and Mrs F have lost out as a result  of taking out PPI 
with their Skipton  mortgages, so theres nothing Skipton needs to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN55259474my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs F have not lost out as a 
result of having mortgage PPI, so I dont uphold  their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5525947