K821x#15complaint
Mrs K has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of her car insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
background
Mrs Ks car insurance policy with AXA started  on 3 January 2017.  She said that in 
June 2017, her cars emissions warning light came  on and it lost power. A local garage 
cleaned the cars Diesel  Particulate Filter (DPF)  which  resulted in the emissions warning 
light going off and power being restored. But, in August 2017, the same warning light came 
on again and the same garage cleaned the DPF which made  the warning light go off.
In early October 2017, the emissions warning light came on again  and the car lost power.  
Mrs K took her car to the manufacturers main  dealer garage because she felt the local 
garage wasnt able to resolve  the problem. There was also a problem with the cars air 
conditioning which she also wanted looking into. The main dealer  garage looked at the car 
on 11 October 2017. Mrs K said that they told her the DPF was blocked and that it needed  
replacing, but it could  take up to four days for them  to obtain a new DPF. The main  dealer 
garage also did a service. Mrs K said they told her the problem with the DPF wasnt urgent 
and that they didnt  think she would  breakdown  because of it.
The next day, while Mrs K was driving,  smoke started  coming out of the exhaust. She parked 
up and lifted the bonnet  to find a fire at the bottom  of the engine. Mrs K called the fire 
brigade who put out the fire a short while later. She called AXA to recover  the car but they 
refused. So Mrs K arranged her own recovery at her own cost.  
Mrs K reported the incident to AXA and made a claim. Her car was then recovered to AXAs 
salvage agent. On 19 and 31 October  2017,  two inspections  were carried  out by an 
independent engineer instructed by AXA.  That engineer  estimated the pre-accident  market 
value of Mrs Ks car to be £4,200  and estimated the cost of repair to be over £9,300. He 
therefore said the car was a total loss. He said the salvage category  of the car was Non 
Structural Damage  N (cat N). He also said that, in his opinion,  the cause of the fire was the 
blocked DPF and that the cost of a new DPF should  be deducted from the total loss value. 
A few days  later AXAs engineer wrote to Mrs K. He said that he considered two of the 
industry car valuation guides which had valued  Mrs Ks car at £4,210  and £5,095, 
respectively. He said he used the higher of the two valuations. From that he deducted the 
cost of a replacement DPF, which was £615.26. He said that amount was being  deducted  
because Mrs Ks policy didnt cover the cost of mechanical failure,  and the DPF problem was 
a mechanical failure. He also deducted £269.32, which  was half the cost of repairing the 
faulty air conditioning as quoted by the main dealer. So after the deductions, AXA came to 
the same  £4,200 valuation as the independent engineer, after rounding down by around 
£10. AXA further  deducted £100 for the policy excess. So after all the deductions, AXA sent 
Mrs K a cheque for £4,100. 
AXAs engineer  said the salvage  category  of the car was category B (cat B), which  meant 
the car couldnt  be returned to Mrs K to be repaired but it would be broken for parts. Mrs K 
disagreed and said she wanted the cars salvage category to remain  as cat N, which  would 
allow her to retain the car. She also sent AXA a number  of adverts of similar cars for sale 
and she said she put her cars pre-accident market value at £6,500.  
Ref: DRN50678842On 1 December  2017, Mrs K returned the settlement cheque to AXA and told them she was 
still disputing the valuation. Mrs K said that she called the salvage agent on 23 January 2018  
and was told they had sold her car on 11 December 2017. AXA hadnt told Mrs K that they 
were going  to or had sold the car. They had sent her a letter on 28 November 2017 
confirming the car would be held in storage for 60 days.
Mrs K complained. She said:
That AXA sold her car without her permission or knowledge. She was therefore  
deprived of the opportunity of having  the car examined to establish the cause of the 
fire with a view of suing  the main dealer garage  for negligence.
The salvage category of her car should be cat N.
She didnt agree  with AXAs valuation. And they had disregarded the evidence she 
provided.
AXAs standard of communication and professionalism was poor.
AXA didnt uphold  Mrs Ks complaint.  She therefore  brought her complaint  to our service.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that AXAs valuation  of the car was 
reasonable. But she said their service  and communication was poor and that they shouldnt 
have sold Mrs Ks car as she hadnt  agreed the settlement offer.  She recommended that 
AXA pay Mrs K a total of £350 compensation. Our adjudicator also recommended  that AXA 
should pay Mrs Ks costs, together with 8% interest, for recovering her car on the day of the 
incident when  AXA refused to recover it. But as neither Mrs K nor AXA agreed  with our 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 4 October 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im only intending  
to uphold this complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
valuation
Mrs Ks policy says that where her car is a total loss, AXA must pay her the 
pre-accident market value  of it. I feel that the starting point when  trying  to establish 
the market value of a car is to look at the industry  trade guides,  and that is what  AXA 
did, as I would expect.  The guides  are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. 
In response to Mrs Ks comments, our adjudicator independently checked the guides 
and found that the average pre-accident value for Mrs Ks car was just over £4,000. 
Our adjudicator asked  one of the guides if any uplift should be made  for the specific 
characteristics Mrs K said made  her car more valuable. But the guide, having 
consulted their specialist  team,  said the characteristics  highlighted by Mrs K wouldnt  
add value to her car. So I don't think those  did increase the cars valuation  as Mrs K 
argues.
The guides  rarely give identical valuations for cars.  So in order  to find out a fair 
market value it is common practice  in the industry  to find the average of the values. 
So in Mrs Ks case, the two guides AXA used gave  values of £4,210 and 5,095, 
respectively. The average  of the two is £4,652.50. So I think  that would have been a 
Ref: DRN50678843fair starting  point to value Mrs Ks car before deductions. But AXA didnt use the 
average of the two, instead they used the higher of the two valuations, which I think  
was reasonable.
From that valuation they deducted £615.26, which  is the cost of a replacement DPF. 
The evidence strongly supports the fact that the DPF was faulty.  Mrs K twice  had a 
garage clean the DPF. And the main  dealer garage had advised her it needed 
replacing. And I think all the engineering evidence strongly suggests that the fire was 
caused by the DPF failing.  And I think AXA are right in saying the DPF failing was a 
mechanical failure, which isnt covered under Mrs Ks policy.  Given that Mrs K had 
booked her car in to have this essential work  done,  I think  its reasonable in the 
circumstances for AXA to deduct the full cost of the replacement DPF from the cars 
valuation. Likewise, its accepted by Mrs K that the cars air condition was not 
working. I agree with AXA that having  a faulty air condition would have reduced the 
cars value,  so AXA deducted £269.32,  which was half of the quoted cost of fixing  the 
problem. The faulty air condition is referred  to as pre-existing damage and its usual 
practice for insurers to work out the cost of putting  right any pre-existing damage  and 
then deducting  50% of that cost from the valuation. So I think  AXA acted  reasonably 
by making that deduction. Mrs K said that the deduction for the faulty air condition 
shouldnt have been made  because  a day before the incident  she had spent £223 on 
her cars service,  so the cost of one balances out the other. But I don't agree. A 
service isnt something that increases  a cars  value,  it just helps  maintain  the current  
value by ensuring its roadworthy. But, as Ive said above, pre-existing damage such 
as a faulty air condition would decrease a cars  value. I also note the independent  
engineer suggested a deduction of £100 for scratches and marks, but AXA didnt 
reduce the value any further to take that into consideration,  which was reasonable.
The policy said Mrs K had to pay an excess of £100 for any claim she made on her 
policy. So AXA were reasonable in deducting that amount from the settlement.
Mrs K supplied a number of adverts  to AXA which she says were ignored. I should  
say that while we expect insurers to use the guides  to value cars, they can also take 
into consideration any other relevant  information, such as adverts or the opinions of 
engineers. I think it would have been helpful  if AXA explained to Mrs K why they 
didnt rely on the adverts she provided them. To support her argument that AXAs  
valuation was too low, Mrs K told our service that she bought a replacement  car for 
£6,399 that was very similar  to her car that was damaged. But Im aware  that the car 
she bought had almost  13,000 miles less on its odometer. The mileage on Mrs Ks 
replacement car was very low and substantially below  the average mileage of a car 
of that age, which I think would have added  to its value. I also think  that if Mrs Ks 
replacement car had a defective DPF and a faulty air condition  that the price  would  
have been lower.
Also, we find the guides reliable and more persuasive than the asking price for a 
car advertised. The advertised asking price  for a car is not necessarily the price it 
sold for, nor is it necessarily the true market value. And often the advertised price 
may be inflated to allow for negotiation. 
So Im not intending to uphold this part of Mrs Ks complaint because I feel the 
settlement offer AXA made was fair and reasonable, and that they followed the 
industry accepted  valuation  method that our service  expects. And I havent seen any 
Ref: DRN50678844convincing evidence to show  that the valuation should have been higher, so Im not 
asking AXA to increase their offer.
the salvage category
The independent engineer who examined  Mrs Ks car said that it was a cat N. Cat N 
means the damage to the car isnt structural and that the car can be repaired and put 
back on the road. Mrs K wanted to keep her car and have it repaired. Once an 
insurer pays the total loss settlement of a car it becomes the insurers  property. And 
the insurer can then dispose of the car as they think fit. Often insurers  sell the 
salvage of a total loss car to salvage companies in an effort to try and recover as 
much of their outlay (how  much the spent  on settling a claim) as possible.  But 
insurers may, if they wish to, offer to sell the salvage of a car back to the 
policyholder. But that can only happen  where  the salvage category  is such that 
legally the car can be repaired and be put back on the road, such as a cat N.
Some of the salvage categories, such as cat A and cat B, mean that the car cant be 
sold back to the policyholder to put back on the road. A cat B means the car can be 
broken up and usable parts can be recycled. And if the car was a cat B then its 
unlikely AXA would  have  offered to sell it Mrs K. I am satisfied that both the 
independent engineer who said the car was a cat N and AXAs engineer  who said the 
car was a cat B are suitably qualified to decide on the correct categorisation. But it 
does sometimes happen that experts  have different opinions. 
I have looked  at the independent engineers report and other than saying  the car was 
a cat N, he didnt  explain why. But AXAs engineer  has provided a detailed  
explanation why he felt the car had suffered  structural damage which justified  it being  
deemed a cat B. He said:
The damage from the fire is extensive to the o/s/f [offside front] area, but the 
heat generated  by the fire is the element that has now changed the molecular 
structure of the metal  components so they cannot be safely re-used or 
repaired in that area.  The vehicle is deemed  as a cat B for valid reasons and 
for which I am qualified  to place that category on the vehicle. You have 
correctly identified Cat B under the ABI code, meaning that it has extensive 
structural damage and is unsafe or beyond repair. The fire has heated the 
chassis leg and inner wing/turret, which has changed its molecular structure, 
but the chassis leg is not a simple steel,  it is a steel alloy, so repair is not an 
option and to change this would entail a full leg starting at the very front of the 
vehicle and going down under the floor by the foot pedals, on the off side plus 
various other  panels and reinforcers  on the bulkhead to enable to be correctly 
replaced. Then add in all the other  components such as the engine cradle 
and suspension  which are affected by heat damage. This vehicle is only 
suitable to be broken  for spares and the bodyshell destroyed.
Mrs K said she spoke  to an engineer about  AXAs categorisation of the car. She said 
that engineer  told her:
As for their decision  to alter the salvage  category is concerned, their 
reasoning is tenuous and likely to be a consequence of either their want or 
need to alter the caytegory [sic] which  is unlikely  because  the better the 
category the more  they would receive  from [the salvage agent] under the 
Ref: DRN50678845contract which will certainly  exists [sic] between them, it is more likely  [at the 
salvage agents] request AXA changed the category so they would have to 
pay [l]ess f[o]r the car and caould [sic] dispose  of it as a "breaker" in a way 
they feel their auction process would stand. As I say, AXA's rationale behind 
the category change  is questionable and likely to be a commercial decision at 
the behest of their salvage buyer rather than one based on engineering 
principles.
My understanding from this is that the engineer Mrs K spoke  to is suggesting the 
salvage agent may have convinced AXA to change the salvage category to a cat B 
as that way it would cost the salvage  agent less to buy the salvage from AXA. He 
suggests a cat N is a better category for AXA as they (AXA) would get more money 
by selling the salvage as a cat N. But AXA, like all insurers, will try to maximise the 
price they can get for selling a cars salvage as AXA will want to recoup as much  of 
their outlay as possible. So I dont accept  that AXA changed the category to a cat B 
to enable the salvage agent to pay less, as that would mean that AXA received a 
lower playout and therefore recouped less of their outlay. That wouldnt make any 
form of commercial sense. And while Mrs K has told us about the comments, above, 
they don't  appear anywhere  on AXAs file. Furthermore, the comments  dont address 
the specific engineering comments made by AXAs engineer in which  he explained  in 
detail why the car couldnt be repaired.  Instead  the engineer Mrs K spoke to appears 
to have speculated as to why AXA changed  the category.
Mrs K has also suggested that AXA may have changed the category  to a cat B and 
sold the car without  her knowledge or permission (see below where I deal with that 
issue separately) to prevent  her from getting the car back and for it not to be 
repaired at AXAs and/or [the main  dealer garages]  expense.
I believe Mrs K is suggesting here that the main  dealer garage may have been 
negligent in not advising her that driving  her car with the faulty DPF might cause the 
engine to catch fire. And if AXA kept the category as cat N and didnt sell the cars 
salvage, Mrs K would have got the car back and had it inspected to prove  the main 
dealer garage  was negligent. But Mrs K hasnt  given any reason why AXA would 
want to protect the main  dealer  garage. On the contrary, I think that if Mrs K had the 
opportunity to prove that the main dealer garage were negligent, then that would 
have been to AXAs benefit  because  if Mrs K was successful in taking action against 
the main dealer garage and proving they were negligent, then AXA could have  
avoided having  to pay to settle  the claim, which would have been to AXAs  financial 
benefit.
The other suggestion Mrs K made was that AXAs action of changing the salvage 
category and selling the car without  her knowledge may have been to avoid  them 
having to pay for the cars repair.  But even  if the category was kept as cat N and if 
the car was returned to Mrs K, AXA would  never  have paid to have the car repaired. 
The pre-accident market  value was £5,095. The estimated cost of repair  was over 
£9,300. So under a cat N it wasnt economical  to repair the car. Under  a cat N AXA 
would have still paid Mrs K the cars  pre-accident market value and she would  have 
bought the salvage  of the car for its salvage  price.  The responsibility of repairing the 
car would have rested entirely with Mrs K and not AXA.
On this point I would like to address a related issue Mrs K raised. She said the 
estimated £9,300 repair costs were wrongly  inflated by including  the damage  to the 
Ref: DRN50678846bonnet and ancillary parts. She said the bonnet  wasnt damaged during  the fire as 
she had opened  it. She said one of AXAs agents  damaged the bonnet  by prising it 
open with an implement. So she said the cost of replacing the bonnet should be 
deducted from the estimated costs of repair. However, if those  costs  were deducted 
the costs of repair would have still been above  the cars valuation.  So the car would 
have remained uneconomical to repair.
For the reasons  given  above, Im not intending  to uphold this part of the complaint as 
I think AXAs decision to declare the car a cat B was reasonable.
the sale of the car
AXA have accepted that they were wrong  to sell the salvage because  they were  
aware Mrs K was disputing the valuation and as she hadnt accepted the offered 
settlement. Unfortunately,  this is something that our service comes across quite 
often. It tends to result  from a breakdown in communication  between  insurance 
companies and their salvage  agents. So I think whats  possibly  happened  is that 
when AXA sent their cheque to Mrs K they told their salvage agent that theyd settled 
the claim.  I note that when AXA sent Mrs K a cheque for the settlement under cover  
of their letter of 28 November 2017,  they incorrectly said that she had agreed to the 
settlement figure. I accept  that Mrs K returned  the cheque  and made it clear that she 
was disputing the offer made,  but I think AXA made  a mistake by allowing the car to 
be sold. I have addressed the service issues below, and my suggested  
compensation takes into consideration this aspect of Mrs Ks complaint.
But I have to consider  what  may have happened had AXA not sold Mrs Ks car. I 
have already said, above, that I think AXAs valuation and settlement offered to 
Mrs K was reasonable.  But Mrs K disagreed. She has told our service that by 
disposing the car AXA have deprived her of the opportunity of having  her own 
engineer examine the car to: (1) establish the correct salvage  category; and (2) 
determine whether  or not the fire was caused as a result of the DPF. She feels that if 
she was able to prove  the car should have remained a cat N she would have been 
able to buy its salvage. And if she was able to prove the DPF caused  the fire she 
would have been able to sue the main dealer garage to recover her losses. And more 
importantly, had she been able to successfully  sue the garage she would have  been  
able to recover her losses  without having to make a claim on her policy  and thereby 
she (and her husband)  would have avoided increased premiums in years  to come. 
Mrs K is right in saying that having  a claim  against her policy as she currently  has 
will, unfortunately, cause  her premiums to be higher for a number of years. 
But from the evidence  Ive seen, I think Mrs K had ample time and opportunity before  
the car was disposed  of on 11 December 2017  to tell AXA that she wanted it 
examined by her own engineer and that she intended to sue the main dealer garage.  
But she didn't  mention  this until some time after she learned the car had been sold. 
On 10 January 2019, Mrs K sent our service a document  headed Summary of 
Issues - 2020-8875/TP/MI01  (January 2019 summary). In that she said:
[the main dealer garage] had failed  to determine the actual  extent to which  the 
DPF was blocked meaning that it was actually unsafe to drive,  as proved by the 
subsequent fire.
Ref: DRN50678847[the main dealer  garage]  stated to me that they were not responsible  for the fire. I 
therefore contacted an engineer with a view to having an independent inspection 
carried out on my vehicle in order to verify  the cause of the fire.
When I contacted  [AXAs salvage agent] (the company who were  storing  my 
vehicle) to arrange to take some photographs  for the independent inspector I was 
shocked to be told that my vehicle had not only been  sold but had left the 
country.
[the main dealer  garages] negligence in failing to correctly assess the extent  to 
which the DPF was blocked and subsequently cause the fire, AXA believing  [the 
main dealer garages] statement  that I refused to have the work  conducted,  
coupled with AXA illegally selling my vehicle  so that my vehicle  was not available 
for an independent inspection  or for me to retain,  has left me with other financial 
losses.
But in a three-page chronology Mrs K had sent our service around a year earlier, she 
said that on 23 January  2018 she had "Phoned [AXAs salvage agent]  to arrange a 
visit and take some  photographs" which is when she was told her car had been  sold 
(in her January 2019 summary she said she found out the car had been  sold on 
24 January 2018). Mrs K made no mention  that during the 23 January 2018 call to 
the salvage agent that she was intending  to get access to the car for the purposes  of 
an engineers  inspection.
In her January 2019 summary, Mrs K said her solicitor confirmed that the main  
dealer garage  should have been  held responsible for the fire and subsequent 
damage to my vehicle".  In the three-page chronology, Mrs K said on 
5 December 2017 Legal  advice sought - advised [the main dealer garage] must  take 
responsibility for damage to car. So if Mrs K had got legal advice on 5 December 
2017 that said the main dealer garage were  responsible for the cars damage,  I 
would have expected her to tell AXA that soon  after 5 December  2017,  but she didnt. 
I also note that Mrs K has told us that she found out on 23 January 2018 from the 
salvage agent that her car had been sold. But the day after that, on 24 January, she 
sent AXA an email  in which she queried AXA about  how long her car would  be kept 
in free storage. In her January 2019 summary, Mrs K said on the 24 January 2018, 
having discovered that my vehicle had been illegally sold,  I sent an email to AXA 
asking for clarification in terms  of the end date for free storage as according  to the 
letter from AXA dated 28 November  2017 it would end of the 26 January  2018.  So 
Mrs K accepts that at the time of sending that email (on 24 January 2018)  she knew  
her car had been  sold. Yet she made  no mention in that email that she had found out 
the day before that her car had been  sold; that she had almost  six weeks earlier got 
legal advice to say she had a case against the garage;  that she wanted  her engineer 
to examine the car; and that she had now been deprived of the opportunity of taking 
action because the car had been  disposed of. That email was sent around 15 weeks 
after the damage to her car and after numerous emails and letters were exchange 
between the parties  during which AXA had rejected all of Mrs Ks complaints about  
the valuation,  salvage category and who was responsible for the damage. So Im not 
convinced that even as of 24 January 2018  Mrs K had decided  she wanted  the car 
examined. And Mrs K hasnt provided our service with any written  legal advice from 
her solicitor  that she said she obtained  in early December 2017  showing she was told 
the main dealer garage were  responsible  for the damage.
Also in Mrs Ks letter to our service  dated  31 July 2018, when explaining why she 
believed it was unfair for AXA to deduct from the cars value £615.26  for the 
Ref: DRN50678848replacement DPF, Mrs K said it is also possible that the DPF was not the cause of 
the fire. I find that argument inconsistent with Mrs Ks position that she was given 
legal advice in December 2017  that the main  dealer garage were  responsible  for the 
damage to her car. Her argument in holding the garage responsible for the fire is that 
they were negligent  in not advising her that it was unsafe to drive with the faulty  DPF. 
So if Mrs K doubted  the DPF caused the fire then that would put into question her 
claim that the main  dealer  garage were negligent.
So, having  considered all the information,  while AXA were wrong to dispose of the 
car in the manner  they did, I am not convinced that Mrs K suffered a detriment as a 
result. I am not convinced that she has demonstrated that she would have  taken 
action against  the main  dealer garage  and that she had reasonable prospects of 
being successful.  Im therefore not intending to uphold  this part of her complaint.
poor service
Having considered all the information  in this complaint, I think that AXAs  service,  in 
particular their communication  with Mrs K, has been  poor. Examples of AXAs  poor 
service include: sending correspondence  addressed to Mrs K to the wrong address; 
sending her correspondence with incomplete  and/or missing text; sending  her 
correspondence with sections that appear  to relate to another  complaint; telling her 
that she had agreed  to the settlement when she clearly hadnt;  disposing of her car 
before she had agreed to a settlement; not telling her that they were going  to dispose 
of her car and not telling her they had done  so afterwards; and failing to recover  her 
car after the incident that meant she had to arrange that herself.
Mrs K has detailed  to our service the impact the poor service  has had on her. And I 
am mindful  of the fact that two years on from the distressing incident that led to the 
loss of her cherished  car, this matter  hasnt yet been  resolved. It is clear Mrs K has 
suffered distress and inconvenience, which I think could  have  been  limited had AXAs  
service been better. So I intend  to require AXA to pay Mrs K £500 compensation to 
address that. In addition, AXA should  refund Mrs K the recovery costs she incurred 
when AXA failed  to recover her car following  the incident. AXA should  also pay 
simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date she paid the recovery costs until 
the refund  is made. Mrs K should  send AXA a copy of the invoice or other proof  of 
the costs she incurred.
Finally, Mrs K said she felt AXA should  have  taken action against the main dealer 
garage as she believed they were  responsible for the damage to her car. But, while  
that is something that AXA could have considered, they were  under no obligation to 
do so. And it isnt something I would expect AXA to do in the circumstances. AXA 
obligation under  the policy  is to settle the claim by paying the cars  pre-accident 
market value, which is what  they offered to do.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither AXA nor Mrs K agreed  with my 
provisional findings. 
AXA said:
My proposed outcome was unfair because the damage to Mrs Ks car was caused by 
a mechanical breakdown, which wasnt  an insured incident covered under the policy. 
So they said she was never entitled  to claim under the policy. 
Ref: DRN50678849£200 compensation was justified for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs K 
for misleading her by dealing with her claim.
Ordinarily, where an insured car suffered fire damage AXA would arrange its 
recovery.
Mrs K reiterated her main  points again and said:
The main dealer garages negligence caused  the damage to her car.
She brought to AXAs attention the problems with the air conditioning and DPF which 
led to her being penalised by £884.58.  Without her bringing  it to AXAs attention  they 
wouldnt have known  about those problems and the deductions wouldnt have been 
made.
She told AXA about the main dealer garages  involvement to enable AXA to claim 
against them  because  they were responsible for the damage.  But AXA said the main 
dealer garage  werent at fault.
She is in the process of taking the main dealer garage to court.  She said it would 
have helped her case greatly if she had an independent  engineers report. The judge  
at the provisional  hearing made  reference  to the availability of an independent  
engineers report. The lack of an independent engineers  report is likely to impact  on 
the outcome of her case against  the main dealer garage.
In my provisional decision I concluded that, as of the 24 January 2018, Mrs K hadnt 
decided if she wanted her car examined. In response, Mrs K provided me with an 
email dated 15 January 2018,  from an engineer. In that email the engineer  confirmed 
that Mrs K had contacted him through a contact form on his website. And that he 
would respond  to her. I understand Mrs K is suggesting that this is proof  that she 
intended to have her car inspected before 24 January 2018.
In my provisional decision I said that Mrs K had ample time and opportunity before 
the car was disposed  of on 11th December 2017  to tell AXA  that she wanted it 
examined by her own engineer and that she intended to sue the main dealer garage.  
But AXAs letter  of 28 Nov 2017 said her car was moved  to free storage for 60 days. 
So she took that to mean her car would be kept safe until 26 January 2018, 
especially as she was still in possession of cars log book. So given her belief that the 
car was safe until 26 January 2018  and still being possession of the log book, Mrs K 
said she didnt fear the car was in danger  of being sold or scrapped 13 days after 
AXAs letter. 
AXA sold her car illegally,  which I accepted in my provisional decision. So AXA 
should pass on the sale proceeds to her.
My provisional decision wrongly said that Mrs Ks replacement car had almost  13,000  
miles less on its odometer. It had around 9,300  miles  less. 
In addition to the £500  compensation I proposed in my provisional decision, AXA 
should pay Mrs K either sale proceeds from the sale of her car or compensate her for 
the £884.58 which they deducted  from the valuation  (for the faulty DPF and air 
conditioning), whichever is the greater sum, in lieu of the fact that they illegally sold 
her car. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. I would like to respond to the parties comments, as follows:
AXAs comments
Ref: DRN506788410I agree  with AXA that the damage  to Mrs Ks car was caused  by a mechanical  
failure/breakdown, which is not covered under the policy. But I dont  agree with AXA that my 
proposed resolution  of Mrs Ks complaint is unfair  for that reason.
AXA treated  Mrs Ks claim as a valid claim and dealt with it accordingly. AXA had the car 
assessed, valued, paid the total loss settlement and disposed  of the car. That cannot  be 
undone. I therefore dont find it reasonable for AXA, more than two years after Mrs Ks loss, 
to raise this as an issue to avoid  Mrs K being treated reasonably.  The fair and reasonable 
thing to do is to treat the matter as though  it was a valid claim under the policy  from the 
beginning. 
And AXA have  confirmed that they do ordinarily  recover a policyholders  vehicle where it has 
suffered fire damage. But as they didnt  do so in Mrs Ks case and she had to have her car 
recovered herself, I think its fair and reasonable for them to reimburse  her for the 
reasonable recovery costs she incurred. That is why I require AXA to refund Mrs K the costs 
she incurred in recovering her car after the incident, together  with simple interest at a rate of 
8% a year from the date she made  payment until the date of refund.
AXA have said that they believe £200  compensation is justified for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs K for misleading her by dealing with her claim when they 
shouldnt have, because  it wasnt a valid claim under the policy.  But, as Ive said, AXA dealt 
with the claim as though it was a valid claim and that cant be undone. So the compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  cant be limited to only a certain aspect of what went wrong. I 
have taken into account everything and feel that a global  award of £500  compensation is 
reasonable.
Mrs Ks comments
I can understand why Mrs K is upset that AXA sold her car when they clearly  shouldnt have 
done. But I have  to look at the overall  fairness of the case  and look to see what impact  that 
has had on Mrs K. Mrs Ks car was damaged to the extent it was uneconomical for AXA to 
repair it. And for the reasons given in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied that the pre-
incident market  valuation given by AXA was reasonable.
My provisional decision is clear that AXAs service was poor and that caused Mrs K distress 
and inconvenience.  And to address that I feel £500 compensation is appropriate. Also,  as 
AXA ordinarily recover the vehicles of their policyholders in circumstances where fire 
damage is suffered,  I also proposed that AXA should pay Mrs K the cost (together  with 
interest) she incurred in recovering  her car because AXA didnt do so.
Much of Mrs Ks submissions relate to liability for the damage to her car. She believes the 
main dealer  garage  were negligent and she has said she is taking action against  them.  But 
AXA isn't responsible for the main dealers actions.  Their obligation under the policy  is to pay 
Mrs K the pre-incident market value  of the car, which Im satisfied they offered  to do.
One of Mrs Ks main  concerns is that because AXA sold her car when they shouldnt have, 
she isnt able to have it inspected by an engineer to evidence that the main  dealer  garage 
were liable for the damage.  But for the reasons given in my provisional decision,  Im not 
satisfied that Mrs K told AXA that was her intention. I agree with Mrs K that AXA,  in their 
November 2017  letter, gave her the impression that her car would be kept in free storage 
until 26 January 2018.  But Im not satisfied, on the evidence Ive seen, that Mrs K had 
Ref: DRN506788411intended to take legal  action against the main dealer garage, which  is why I think she never 
mentioned it to AXA even after she found  out on around 23 January 2018 that they had sold 
her car. I have seen  the email Mrs K provided  dated  15 January 2018 from an engineer. But 
other than confirming she contacted him there is no documentary evidence  showing she 
asked for an inspection of her car to establish  the cause of the damage.  Mrs K had said that 
she got legal  advice as far back as 5 December 2017, a week  before her car was sold, 
where she was told the main dealer  garage  were responsible  for the damage.  But she didnt 
tell AXA she intended  to have the car inspected by an engineer  with a view of suing  the main  
dealer garage  as she had received advice. And even after she found out on 23 January 
2018 that her car had been  sold, in her email  to AXA the day after on 24 January she again 
made no mention  that she wanted the car inspected with a view of suing the main dealer 
garage or that she had got legal  advice around  six weeks earlier. Instead  she queried AXA 
about how long her car would be kept in free storage.  That email was sent around  15 weeks  
after the damage to her car, and after numerous emails and letters were exchange between 
the parties during which AXA had rejected all of Mrs Ks complaints about the valuation, 
salvage category  and who was responsible  for the damage. She didnt say she had been  
deprived of the opportunity of taking  action because the car had been  disposed of, which I 
would have expected her to say if that was her intention at the time.  So Im not convinced 
that even as of 24 January 2018 Mrs K had decided she wanted the car examined with a 
view of suing the main dealer garage. And I note that Mrs K hasnt provided our service with 
any written legal advice  from her solicitor that she said she obtained  in early December 2017 
showing she was told the main dealer garage were  responsible for the damage.  And I 
haven't seen any evidence  that Mrs K had a reasonable prospect of success  if shed decided 
to take legal action against the main  dealer.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I think AXA were  justified in making 
deductions for the defective DPF and faulty  air conditioning (totalling £884.58)  from the final 
valuation. Making  deductions for existing faults  when  valuing a car is an industry  wide 
practice. So Im not asking AXA to pay that amount to Mrs K. And I dont think it matters that 
those faults were brought to AXAs attention by Mrs K. What is important is that AXA 
became aware  of them and were entitled to make deductions.
And while I accept AXA were wrong  to sell Mrs Ks car when they did, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask AXA to pay the sale proceeds  to Mrs K. Thats because AXA paid Mrs K the 
market value of her car under  the policy. So AXA were entitled to recoup as much of their 
outlay as possible from the sale of the car. 
Mrs K said that my provisional decision wrongly said that her replacement  car had almost 
13,000 miles less on its odometer compared to her car that suffered the total loss. She said 
her replacement car had around 9,300  miles less. That is still a substantial difference and 
would still have meant her replacement  car would have had added  value,  when compared  to 
her car that suffered  the total loss, because its mileage was substantially lower.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require AXA Insurance  UK 
Plc to:
Pay Mrs K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs K has accepted  my 
final decision.  If they pay later than this they must also pay interest  on that amount  
Ref: DRN506788412from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
On presentation of proof, refund Mrs K the costs she incurred in recovering her car 
after the incident, together with simple  interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
she made  payment  until the date of refund.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
1 If AXA consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs K how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5067884