K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr M are unhappy about  the way in which  Leeds  Building Society (LBS) dealt 
with their mortgage application.
background
In the summer  of 2018 Miss M and Mr M applied for a mortgage with LBS. On 25 July 2018  
(a Wednesday) theyd  provided information for a decision in principle and asked  LBS if they 
could proceed  to a full application. They needed  to proceed quickly  and asked LBS to 
expedite their application. The decision to decline the application was made on 31 July 2018, 
the following  Tuesday,  four working days later
On 1 August  2018, after Miss M had contacted LBS,  she was told the application  had been  
declined. She and Mr M consider this to be unfair, particularly as LBS didnt give them  any 
reason. 
Miss M and Mr M complained that their application  was declined. They were also unhappy  
about the customer service theyd  received.  They say they had to chase repeatedly  LBS for 
updates. They also said that a manager  who spoke to Mr M was rude and unsympathetic to 
their situation.
LBS didnt uphold the complaint so Miss M and Mr M brought  it to us, where it was 
considered by an investigator. In a detailed letter dated 22 February 2019 he went through  
the timeline of events  that had led to the complaint being brought.  But he didnt think  LBS 
had done anything wrong. 
Miss M and Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Theyve provided no 
further evidence  or arguments other  than those originally submitted with their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Some of the information  provided by LBS 
about its underwriting and lending criteria is commercially  sensitive.  In the circumstances, I 
have accepted this evidence in confidence,  as Im allowed to do under our rules. And where 
the evidence is incomplete, I have to decide what I think what  is likely  to have happened,  
based on the available evidence.
I dont need to set out what happened  in detail.  Thats because  the investigator  has already 
done so in his letter of 22 February 2019. Miss M and Mr M and LBS have a copy of that 
letter. And what happened isnt in dispute, so I dont need to repeat all the background here.
Im satisfied that LBS considered the application  fairly,  against  its lending criteria.  Having  
done so, it LBS was entitled to decline the application. Its not my role to second-guess what 
I think LBS should have done  differently or substitute my own lending  decision for that 
reached by LBS.  
What I do have to consider is whether  it assessed  the application fairly, applying  its lending 
criteria. After reviewing the information  provided by LBS (which, as Ive said above, Im 
entitled to treat as confidential), Im satisfied that it reached its decision fairly.
Ref: DRN51141012This means  that Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
With regard to the customer service issues, Miss M says she was promised calls to update  
her about  the application  which didnt happen.  When she called for an update, she wasnt 
always able to get through, or was put on hold.  Miss M insists  that she was told shed be 
given an update by the end of the day on 25 July 2018.
The call notes make  no mention of any promises to call back by the end of the day. These  
notes are contemporaneous  that is, they were made at the time of the call. In the 
circumstances, I think  that if LBS had promised to call back by the end of the day, the note 
would have said so. This is particularly so because LBSs standard  procedure is that it will 
update customers  in a three-day timeframe (due to volume of work). So I think  if anything 
other than that had been agreed, it would have  been recorded in the call notes. 
Unfortunately call recordings arent available. Im satisfied  with LBSs  explanation for this 
(technical issues). So its not been possible for me to listen  to the call between Mr M and 
LBS on 26 July 2018 when Mr M says he was spoken to rudely.  
The call note records that Mr M was not happy  that an update couldnt be provided.  The 
manager wasnt able to provide Mr M with the information he wanted   because  no decision 
had yet been taken on the application.  I think its likely that there was mutual frustration,  
because Mr M wasnt being told what he wanted  to know,  and the manager wasnt able to 
provide him with any further information. 
The underwriters decision was reached at 4pm on 31 July 2018. I think LBS could have  
phoned Miss M and Mr M before close of business that day, but I understand why it didnt, 
given the pressures of a busy office  and older applications that would have  taken priority.  
Miss M was given the decision  to decline the application when she called the following 
morning at 9.38am,  so there was no substantive delay in Miss M and Mr M becoming aware 
the application had been declined.
Overall, given that the process from application to decision took less than five working days,  
I dont think LBSs customer service was below standard.  I appreciate that buying a house  is 
stressful, and so I fully understand Miss M and Mr Ms frustrations that matters werent being 
dealt with as quickly as theyd have liked. But I think in all the circumstances, LBS assessed 
the application quickly and provided a timely  decision.
This means  that Im not upholding the complaint about poor customer  service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes this services  
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51141013
Ref: DRN5114101