K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that etika Finance UK Limited  have  insisted he repay  a debt, which  he says 
he is not responsible  for.
background
In early 2018, an application  was made  in Mr Ws name, with an online retailer  to get a 
mobile telephone, to be paid for in monthly instalments. etika  provided  the finance  to the 
person who made the application. 
Upon approval  of the application, a fee of £9.99  was paid to etika, using different account, to 
any held by Mr W. Around the same time, Mr Ws bankers, declined a debit card payment for 
the same  amount, as they thought  it may have been fraudulent.  
The online retailer  sent the mobile  telephone to a parcel distribution centre, near to Mr Ws 
home. etikas records show  that the mobile  telephone was collected from the distribution 
centre, a few days after the application was made. The records  show  a driving licence and a 
household utility bill, in Mr Ws name, were used  as proof of Mr Ws identity.
A short time after the parcel was collected,  Mr W says an unknown person, sent him a 
bundle of documents in the post. Within the bundle was a note to say that the documents  
were found  near to the parcel distribution  centre. Also, there  were  two bank account 
statements, from different banks in Mr Ws name.  Mr W says he doesnt  hold accounts with 
those banks and that he has discovered  that they are fake or forged documents.
Two months  later, Mr W says he noticed a direct debit paid from his bank account to etika  
and contacted his bankers, to say he didnt recognise it. Mr Ws bankers refunded  the direct 
debit amount and cancelled  it.
In September  2018, etika contacted Mr W because they hadnt received the instalments to 
pay for the mobile  telephone. Mr W wrote to etika to complain. He explained  to them  that his 
identity had been stolen and that he didnt recognise the debt they were asking him to repay.
etika investigated Mr Ws concerns and wrote to him with their final response in November 
2018. They  said Mr W hadnt provided a crime reference number and he hadnt completed a 
declaration form they had sent to him. They also said Mr Ws identification was used  to 
collect the mobile telephone, so they found  it likely he made the application  for the finance  to 
get it.
Mr W didnt accept this and brought  his complaint to us. He said that he had reported the 
matter to the Police and could prove hes been  the victim of fraudulent activity. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ws case and upheld his complaint.  She concluded that Mr W 
had evidence of fraudulent activity  concerning his identity. She also found that some of the 
details used at the time of the application, are different  to Mr Ws actual details. 
The investigator was also persuaded  that Mr W had the funds to pay for the mobile 
telephone outright. So, she asked  etika to stop chasing Mr W for the debt, remove any trace 
of the debt from Mr Ws credit file and to pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience  
they had caused to him.
Ref: DRN53618092Mr W accepted the investigators findings, but etika didnt respond,  despite reminders from 
us. So, Mr Ws complaint  has now been  referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the application
After the application was approved, the person who applied  for the finance paid a service fee 
of £9.99 to etika. etika says that whoever paid the service fee, passed the verification 
process used in the debit card transaction. They said the person using the debit card 
correctly answered security questions associated with that card,  as well as other matching 
information. 
But, I dont think this proves that it was Mr W, who paid the service  fee. I think  it shows that 
whoever did pay the £9.99 service fee, used the correct details for their card.
Ive seen confirmation from Mr Ws bankers to say that they declined a payment for £9.99 at 
the time of the application and that no such amount debited any of Mr Ws accounts. Weve  
also seen evidence from Mr Ws bankers, that he didnt have a debit  card, matching the 
details used to make the £9.99 payment to etika.  
Mr W has sent us copies  of his credit reference agency report. I have seen that he holds one 
other current account, with a different  bank,  from which a debit card payment could be 
made. Mr W has told us that he doesnt use this other account  and this is supported from 
looking at the balance information on his credit report.
I think Mr W has been consistent and credible with what hes told us about his current  
accounts. I accept that Mr Ws debit card was attempted to be used at some  point  during  the 
application. But, I think the evidence from his bankers,  show  the transaction was declined.  I 
think the person  who made the application, then used a different debit card to pay for the 
service fee. On balance,  I think  the service fee paid to etika  didnt come from an account 
held by Mr W.
Mr W has explained that he upgraded his handset,  with his service provider in June 2018. 
Hes told us that he doesnt feel the need to have the latest handset  and that he would  not 
consider paying  the cost of the telephone financed by etika. Mr W has also provided  
information to show that he was able to pay for the mobile telephone outright, at the time of 
the application. 
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr W would have needed to have applied for finance from etika. 
And Im persuaded by what  he says,  in that an expensive mobile telephone wouldnt have 
been of interest  to him.
Etika have sent us a copy of the information used  in the online application for the finance 
agreement. I have compared this to the information  Mr W has sent to us. I can see that most  
of the information on the application  does not match with Mr Ws personal details. 
Significantly, the email  address and telephone number and employers contact details are not 
those held by Mr W. 
Ref: DRN53618093In all the circumstances, I think the person who applied for the finance  used  information  
which was different from Mr Ws personal  details. I also think some  of the contact details 
used, were intended to make any contact between Mr W and etika difficult. Having 
considered everything, I think it was someone other  than Mr W, who made the application 
with etika. So, he should not be held responsible for the repayment of the outstanding  debt 
owed to them.
the fraudulent  activity  around Mr Ws identity and the collection of the package
etika werent convinced  that documents found near the parcel  distribution centre, had been 
fraudulently put together in Mr Ws name. Mr W has sent copies  of the documents to us, 
which were found  by a third party. Bank  account  statements,  in Mr Ws name, from two 
different banks were  found within the bundle  of documents. 
We have spoken  to both banks and they have told us that neither account  exist on their 
account registers. Also, the accounts  do not appear on Mr Ws credit file. So, I think there 
has been fraudulent activity around Mr Ws identity. Im persuaded by what Mr W has told us 
about how he was given the documents and I dont think he was aware of them before the 
application had been made to etika.
Etika have sent us copies of a progress log of how the package  was processed at the parcel 
distribution centre. I can see that the package was readied to be delivered  to Mr Ws 
address, but within seven  minutes, the instruction was changed, so it could be collected at 
the distribution centre itself. 
The log also tells us that notification was sent to the customer by email. But, the application 
contained the incorrect email address for Mr W. So, I dont think he would have received any 
notification, that a package was waiting for him to collect.
Also, the log goes  on to show that after two further  days, the package containing the mobile 
telephone was collected from the distribution centre.  Where  the person who collected it, 
used a driving licence and a utility bill as identification. etika  havent  provided copies of the 
identification used.  
But, I think Mr Ws identity  had been  the subject of fraudulent activity and that fake 
documents had been made,  using  his name.  And I accept what  Mr W has told us, in that the 
documents were  found near to the distribution centre. So, on balance, I think similar fake 
documents were  used  to collect the package  containing the mobile telephone.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mr W collected the package from the 
distribution centre. In all the circumstances, I think the application was made by someone 
other than Mr W, and he should not be held responsible for the repayments due under the 
finance agreement. 
So, I think etika should remove  Mr W from the fixed sum loan agreement and stop pursuing 
him for the balance. I also think etika should  contact  the credit reference  agencies they use, 
to remove any information about the agreement from any records they keep about Mr W.
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr W
Mr W has explained to us that he has experienced difficult personal circumstances as a 
result of having his identity stolen, and then being pursued for a debt that wasnt his. I think  
Ref: DRN53618094etika could have stopped their pursuit of Mr W earlier. So, I think  etika have caused Mr W 
distress and inconvenience, which could have been avoided.  
I agree  with Mr W that the discovery that his identity had been stolen, was made worse by 
being chased for money which someone else had borrowed using his name. In all the 
circumstances, I think  etika should pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and etika Finance UK 
Limited should: 
1.stop chasing Mr W for the repayment  of the debt;
2.remove Mr Ws name from the finance  agreement;
3.contact the credit  reference agencies they use and remove  any trace  of the finance  
agreement, from the information they keep about  Mr W; and
4.pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5361809