K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about their secured  loan taken out with Blemain Finance 
Limited. They are unhappy  at the interest rate and believe  they have already paid enough to 
Blemain. They want the balance of the loan written off and the charge removed from their 
property.
background
On 21 February 2007, on the advice of a mortgage broker,  Mr and Mrs G took out an 
unregulated secured loan with Blemain. They borrowed a total of £33,992 over a term of 
25 years  at a variable interest rate, currently 9.80%  per annum.
Mr and Mrs G have made all payments on time since the loan was taken out. But Mr G is no 
longer able to work and says that the ability to continue  to service the loan is affected. 
Mr and Mrs G asked Blemain to write off the loan balance. They  say that by the end of 2019 
they had paid over £46,000 towards  the loan and believe that this is enough. 
Blemain explained  that the loan was granted on the basis of pension and benefit  income,  
rather than Mr Gs earnings. So Blemain  didnt agree that it should  write off any of the loan 
now Mr G is unable to work, because the pension and benefit income hasnt  been  affected 
by this. Blemain  also didnt think the interest rate was unfair. 
But after looking  at Mr and Mrs Gs income  and expenditure, Blemain asked Mr and Mrs G to 
provide further  information about  their health and financial position so it could  consider  what 
else it might  be able to do to help them. It appears Mr and Mrs G havent  yet done this.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to our service. An investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt 
think Blemain had acted  unfairly. He noted  Blemain was prepared to discuss  the situation 
with Mr and Mrs G, and thought Blemains requests for further information about Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances were reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the investigator. They asked for a final decision and made  
some further  points, as follows:
they think the fees charged in 2007  when the loan was taken out (totalling £3,922) are 
unreasonable;
the interest rate of 9.80% is too high when compared with the Bank of England Base 
Rate;
the amount  they have to pay back under the loan is unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining  where Blemain fits into our service. I apologise to Mr and Mrs G if 
this is overly technical (our rules  are complicated) but I will try to simplify it as much as I can. 
Ref: DRN52031172This is an unregulated  loan taken out in February  2007. Blemain only became subject to 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service on 6 April 2007  and only then in a limited  
capacity in respect of loans that are regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
On 1 April 2014  Blemain became subject to our compulsory  jurisdiction,  which means that 
from that date onwards  we can look at complaints about all loans granted by Blemain. But 
where the loan is unregulated, we can only look at events after 1 April 2014, not before.
What this means for Mr and Mrs G is that, because their loan isnt regulated under the 
Consumer Credit Act, I can only consider a complaint about it in relation to events that have 
happened since 1 April 2014.
So whilst Ive noted the point Mr and Mrs G have made about the fees charged  when they 
took out the loan in 2007, thats not something  I can consider here because it happened 
before 1 April 2014. So I will make no further comment about  that part of the complaint, 
because its not covered  by our rules.
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy at the interest rate. But Blemain is under no obligation  to track 
fluctuations in the Bank of England base rate. The interest rate of 9.80%, whilst higher than 
the interest rate on first charge mortgage  rates available through banks or building societies,  
is not excessive  for a second charge loan. I dont have any power  to tell Blemain what 
interest rate to charge  or to direct it to lower the rate on this loan.
Mr and Mrs G entered into a contract with Blemain to pay this loan back  over a 25-year term, 
making monthly repayments  of capital and interest.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs G now feel 
theyve paid Blemain  enough and want to terminate the contract without  paying  anything 
further. But I dont  think that would be fair or reasonable in all the circumstances. In any 
event, only a court has the power  to decide if a contract should be terminated. 
Ive taken note of what Mr and Mrs G have said about their situation. I also note that Blemain 
has asked Mr and Mrs G for some further information about their health and their financial 
circumstances. Blemain  is, of course, required to treat Mr and Mrs G positively and 
sympathetically if they are in financial difficulty,  and to give fair consideration to any payment 
proposals. But Blemain  can only do this if it has the full picture and all relevant information. 
If Mr and Mrs G are struggling  to make the repayments, I would urge them  to maintain an 
open dialogue with Blemain. They might  find it helpful to get advice from one of the free debt 
advisory services such as Citizens Advice, Age Concern, StepChange or Shelter. We can 
provide Mr and Mrs G with contact details for those agencies, if theyd like us to.
I know this isnt the decision Mr and Mrs G were hoping for. I can see from what  theyve  told 
us that they have had a difficult time over the years,  recently made worse through  a 
deterioration in Mr Gs health. But after taking everything into account, I dont think  Blemain 
has done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN52031173my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5203117