K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mrs M said Commitments Protection Ltd (CPL) has mis-led them about a payment 
protection insurance policy  (PPI) claim for their mortgage. 
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mr M in my decision.
background
Mr M said he was first approached by CPL in July 2016. He said he told them hed had a 
successful PPI claim from one of his lenders Ill call N. Mr M said CPL gave assurances to 
him that because of this successful PPI claim, hed be entitled to compensation for his 
mortgage.
Mr M said he agreed to pay CPL £33.36 per month by direct debit for them to pursue his 
claim. After 12 months Mr M hadnt  heard anything, and he got in touch with CPL.  They said 
his claim had gone into the second stage which meant his monthly payments had increased 
to £66.67 per month. Mr M said he was again given reassurances  about  the certainty of his 
claim.
Mr M said he was visited in December 2018 and February 2019,  by other CPL agents and 
further identification was taken. But in May 2019, he got a letter  from the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) that said hed already made a Single Premium Mortgage 
payment protection insurance (SPMPPI) claim, so no compensation was due. 
He complained to CPL who said their initial fee wasnt for a PPI claim but for a Full Personal 
Review which included  a Mortgage Review  report. And Mr M was sent the report in 
September 2017. CPL said Mr M agreed in November 2017,  after receiving the report  to 
take his claim to the next stage, paying £800  by monthly instalments of £66.67.  CPL said 
theyd requested information from Mr Ms mortgage  lender and passed  this on to solicitors. 
to take forward on a No Win No Fee basis. The solicitors advised there was nothing  for 
them to litigate for on behalf of Mr M. So, no fee was paid. CPL apologised for any confusion 
about Mr Ms SPMPPI claim theyd made  to the FSCS as they were  of the understanding  no 
previous compensation claim had been made.  But said Mr M hadnt  paid any fee for the 
FSCS application.
Mr M wasnt happy with CPLs response as he said he hadnt been  kept updated about his 
claim. And said CPL had mis-led  him about what  they would do and what theyd get for him. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think CPL had performed the services they said they would. And said 
he could understand Mr Ms confusion  about  what he was paying for and what  he actually 
got. He said CPL should refund Mr M all the fees hed paid, plus 8% simple interest, from the 
date paid to the date of settlement. And pay Mr M £ 200 for the trouble and upset that had 
been caused.
CPL has since  offered to refund Mr M £1266.66. But I cant see that theyve agreed to our 
investigators findings. And they havent added the 8% simple interest or paid the award  
made for trouble and upset. So, the complaint has been passed to me as an ombudsman to 
decide.
Ref: DRN58760252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
CPL havent  been  able to provide any notes from the meetings their agents had with Mr M or 
any call recordings. Mr M has said he was of the understanding that the services  CPL were 
providing for him were for pursuing  PPI claims. And he has said in the meetings he had with 
CPL he was given assurances  that his claims would be successful. And I have no reason to 
doubt this.
Mr M had already had some successful PPI claims and I think was encouraged to pursue a 
further PPI claim by CPL as he was given assurances of their success. CPL said Mr M paid 
the first instalments for a Full Personal  Review and a Mortgage  Review Report. But Ive not 
seen any record of the agreement Mr M signed up to for this. 
CPL has provided a generic welcome  letter  that they say would have  been  sent to Mr M. 
This says:
Firstly, let me thank  you for taking the time in meeting with our Agent, during which  you 
discussed the services  we provide  to clients in managing their current financial plans  and 
aspirations, as well as our full claims management  solution.
But I havent seen  anything that shows what Mr M was paying for. There is mention in the 
welcome letter that CPL would be working  one and a half hours each month  on his claim. 
But I havent seen  any evidence of what this work was or what  was done.
A mortgage report was sent to him by CPL,  in September  2017  that referred to a Category 
C case  and said there was little chance  of success if this was taken forward.  But I dont 
think the wording was clear as to what this related to. And further  in the report  it says:
We would like to make it clear that CPL over the next 12 months will be considering any 
additional complaints including PPI and any other  policies or products or lending  
overcharges that may have been  applied or mis-sold
And I think by Mr M agreeing for his claim to be progressed shows he was still of the 
understanding that this was for a PPI claim. And not in connection with a claim considered to 
be a Category C, as this stood  little chance of success. Also,  in agreeing  for the claim to be 
progressed CPL said it  would take this on as claims management activity. But I can see a 
further fee of £800 was charged  for this. 
CPLs terms of business  say:
We do not charge  upfront  fees for Claims Management activities.  If we are to act on your 
behalf in any claims management activity we will charge a success  fee plus VAT..
So, on the evidence  Ive seen I dont think it was made clear to Mr M what activities  CPL 
would do for him, and what he was paying  a fee for.
Mr M was visited in December 2018  following  which CPL referred a claim to solicitors, on a 
No Win No Fee basis. But, in the same month CPL sent Mr M a letter about his SPMPPI 
Ref: DRN58760253claim. He was visited again  in February 2019  following which  in April 2019 CPL  made an 
application to FSCS  about Mr Ms, SPMPPI. In May 2019, FSCS  letter  told Mr M his 
SPMPPI claim has been rejected. 
Without having a record of the discussions that Mr M had with CPL Im persuaded that Mr M, 
from the information he had would have  thought  CPL was only pursuing a PPI claim related 
to his mortgage. And not a claim about his mortgage  product being mis-sold or any other 
products.  
And as Mr M didnt have  a successful claim, I dont think CPL can justify their fees.  And I 
think by offering a refund  to Mr M, CPL has accepted this. 
It isnt our role to punish a business,  but where  we think  something has gone  wrong,  as is 
the case here, we would look to put the consumer back into the position  they would have 
been. And for Mr M the money hed paid in fees wasnt available  to him to use or invest. So, 
I agree  with our investigator that 8% simple interest should be added to this amount  from 
the date it was paid to the date of CPLs settlement. And Id expect this payment to be made 
within a reasonable amount of time from my decision  Id consider this to be within 28 days.
As outlined  above  I found Mr Ms testimony to be persuasive as to the level of assurance he 
was given about getting further compensation. So, I can understand the upset he felt when 
this didnt happen. Add to this the lack of updates that CPL gave him which  meant he had 
the trouble of having to chase for information when hed already been paying  a monthly fee 
must have  been  frustrating. So, I agree  with our investigator that Mr M should be 
compensated for this, And I think £200 reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr M.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And ask Commitments  Protection  Ltd to:
refund  Mr M all the monthly premiums that hes paid 
add *8% simple interest from the date his premiums began to the date Commitments  
Protection Ltd refund his payments and
pay £200 for trouble and upset
*If Commitments Protection Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5876025