K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants a decision which confirms he 
was entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr E tells us he acquired the vehicle on 20 April 2018, from a dealer Ill call H as a 
replacement for a vehicle  which hadnt  proved to be of satisfactory quality. Mr E states he 
found this replacement vehicle also had faults including  with the brakes  and poor 
acceleration. He says he tried to reject it on 1 May 2018. He says this request was refused 
due to him rejecting the previous vehicle. Subsequently  he says repairs  were done  to the 
brakes and the windscreen. But issues with the vehicle  losing acceleration  and making 
noises at low speeds werent addressed by H. 
Mr E explains that the vehicle was then involved in an accident  in July 2018.  And that after 
the accident repairs had been  done hed said he didnt want to have the vehicle back. Mr E 
states that by then hed decided to acquire a replacement vehicle as hed had to return  his 
courtesy vehicle. He said that at first H had agreed  but then gone back on its promise.  Mr E 
says H must have arranged for additional repairs to be done without his knowledge as the 
issues with acceleration and noise werent identified at a later inspection.  
Black Horse  said it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a 
company Ill refer to as D. It said D had concluded the vehicle had no issues and drove 
correctly. And it was of satisfactory quality. It said that as Mr E had given permission  for the 
earlier repairs to brakes and windscreen  it wasnt  prepared to accept  rejection  now the 
vehicle was working properly. It said it had offered Mr E £345 in respect  of loss of enjoyment 
due to the earlier issues and this included  paying £95 for the windscreen.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
insufficient information to say the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied  to Mr 
E. And there  was no evidence of repairs  having been carried out over and above those that 
had been acknowledged. He said whilst thered been a delay between  the insurance  repairs 
after the accident and Ds inspection this hadnt  led to Mr E acquiring another  vehicle. Hed 
done this before the impact of that delay was felt.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E feels strongly about whats happened since  he acquired this vehicle. And 
that hes experienced financial  difficulties  due in part at least to the prevailing circumstances.    
I accept that hes encountered some misfortune  which was outside of his control.
Ref: DRN51578232As this complaint  has been ongoing for a lengthy period some issues have arisen along the 
way. Ill try to deal with these where  I can. But if I dont  mention something specifically from 
the substantial  volume  of information with which Ive been provided, its because  I dont think 
I need to mention it separately in order to reach  my decision.
I should also explain that theres  been  a material change in circumstances as the vehicle has 
now been returned to Black  Horse and sold. Black Horse has indicated there was a shortfall  
of over £14,000. It says this amount has been written off and it wont  actively  pursue Mr E for 
this balance.
Mr Es hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Black  Horse  supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle.
Where information is unclear, contradictory or facts are in dispute - as is the case  here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. Relevant  legislation  here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA). This states  that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply.
Our investigator set out a comprehensive timeline  of events when he issued his view in July 
2019. I wont repeat it in full here as both parties are aware  of the contents.  But I think  it 
accurately records the chain of events which unfolded.
Mr E has said he first complained to H shortly after acquiring the vehicle. He refers  to 
dodgy brakes and a chipped  windscreen  and says he tried to reject it but was given 
incorrect information about this CRA rights.
I make  no finding as to what  Mr E was told about  his right to reject  the vehicle. But I wouldnt 
expect a consumer  to rely for legal advice  about consumer rights on a motor dealer. And its 
by no means certain that Mr E had a right to reject  even if the faults  he described were  
present.  
The vehicle was approximately  four years  old when acquired by Mr E. The odometer  reading 
was approximately  33,000 miles. In February  2018 the vehicle passed an MOT test with 
advisories which included  brake pads. Advisories are issues which dont mean  a failed test 
but which are likely to need  attention. 
Although the brake pads were replaced  when Mr E complained, theres nothing  to show they 
were illegal. Had they been this may have  given him the right to reject as the vehicle 
wouldnt have been fit for purpose. Rather  its probable they simply required new pads as a 
matter of routine  maintenance. And that wouldnt be a reason to reject the vehicle.
Similarly the CRA states that when considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality,  
that description does  not include - where the consumer examines goods before supply - 
anything that inspection ought to reveal. And the earlier MOT  contained no advisories about 
the windscreen. Id have  expected Mr E to be aware of windscreen faults prior to agreeing to 
acquire the vehicle. Im satisfied on a balance  of probabilities that these issues  were not 
sufficient to give Mr E the right to reject the vehicle. And I note that Black  Horse offered to 
refund the cost of the windscreen as gesture of goodwill.
Ref: DRN51578233Ive seen information and testimony about  the vehicle experiencing problems with steering 
and acceleration and making grinding  noises  at low speed. But theres  no information about 
repairs being attempted before the vehicle was involved  in an accident  in early July 2018. 
The vehicle was taken  in for repairs to be carried out on a third partys insurance.  And it 
wasnt returned to Mr E until October 2018.  Its not entirely clear why this delay occurred 
although I can say it wasnt the fault of Mr E. Rather  it seems  to have been a lack of 
communication between  the insurance company and H. Whilst Mr E was without the vehicle  
this wasnt directly due to any issue with the vehicle for which  Black  Horse was liable under 
the regulated  finance agreement. Any consequential losses  he may have incurred would 
seemingly be a matter for the third party insurers.
During the weeks after the accident,  Mr E claims that H agreed to accept  his rejection of the 
vehicle and then changed its position  and refused. In the meantime he says he obtained 
another vehicle  through a separate  finance agreement. Im not sure why H wouldve agreed 
to accept rejection  of the vehicle at this stage when it had supposedly refused earlier. Any 
accident damage was clearly not its responsibility. And it would in any event been entitled 
under the CRA to have  the opportunity to have repaired any other issues with the vehicle 
which werent accident related.  
After the vehicle was repaired  it was inspected  by D. And found  to be operating without fault. 
Mr E doesnt  dispute this finding. But he says the only explanation is that H arranged for 
additional repairs to be carried  out without his knowledge  or consent.
Again theres nothing  to show any repairs - other than those required following the accident - 
were required. And as far as Im aware  they were to the bumper. So not a mechanical  issue  
of the type which  Mr E and his witnesses have  described. 
I accept that Mr E feels that some information must  have been  concealed.  And that this 
would account  for his vehicle seemingly being restored to full working order  without repairs  
to those issues to which  hes referred. But I can only make  my decision on the information 
which Ive seen and the inferences  that can reasonably  be drawn. Even  if he were correct  I 
dont think it would materially affect  my final decision. Ill explain why.
The short term right to reject under the CRA usually has to be exercised  within 30 days  of 
supply. Ive already  explained that I dont think  that when Mr E tried to do this he had 
sufficient grounds.  After  30 days, the supplier of goods - which  are faulty and dont conform  
to contract  - has the right to attempt  repairs.
So if the vehicle  had the mechanical faults to which Mr E has referred - and even if they 
were present  at the point of supply  - H was entitled to one attempt at repair. So there  
wouldve been no need to employ subterfuge  to carry these out. Im not finding  that H did 
anything of the sort - Im simply  saying  it didnt need  to.
As the vehicle was returned to him in full working  order Mr E had no right to reject it. And he 
was still liable to maintain  payments under the agreement. But he notified  Black Horse of his 
financial difficulties. And the vehicle was ultimately  collected and sold.  The financial 
difficulties appear  to have arisen as Mr E took out additional  finance for another vehicle. That 
was his decision and I dont consider that it arose due to any failings on the part of Black 
Horse.
Ref: DRN51578234Under the terms of the agreement Black Horse  is entitled to pursue arrears  of payments but 
its since notified us that it has written  the debt off and wont be chasing Mr E. Thats  a 
matter for Black Horse  and I make no finding or further comment  on this decision.
In summary,  Im of the opinion that this vehicle was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply to Mr E. And that there were no proper grounds upon which he could reject  the 
vehicle. Accordingly,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157823