K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy when he took out a loan in 2007. The loan included an amount to pay 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The loan agreement  is pre-printed, apart  from the signature. So I think  its likely that Mr H 
spoke to an adviser who entered in the details of the conversation  and printed the 
agreement for him to sign. 
On the loan agreement there is a separate section where Mr H had to tick and sign to 
confirm that he wanted  to take out PPI. 
This suggests that there  was a conversation with the adviser and that Mr H chose to take out 
the PPI policy. Had he not, Id have expected  him to challenge why this had been  agreed to 
before he signed  the loan agreement. 
Overall I think  its more  likely than not that Mr H was aware  that he had a choice about taking 
out the PPI policy  and he chose to do so. Although I can understand why he cant remember  
this, considering the policy  was sold a long time ago and typically  purchasing insurance  isnt 
a very memorable experience. 
As the sale took place in branch and with an adviser Lloyds says it recommended  the PPI to 
Mr H. So Lloyds had to make sure its recommendation for the PPI was suitable for Mr H 
based on his needs at the time. Having carefully  considered Mr Hs circumstances,  the PPI 
seems to have been right for him. 
Mr H only has told us he received statutory sick pay from his employer if he was unable to 
work because of an accident  or sickness. And Mr H has also told us that he didnt have any 
savings or other insurances in place to help him meet his repayments if he was unable to 
work. So I think he wouldve struggled to meet his repayments if he was out of work for a 
lengthy period.  
Ref: DRN58419462The PPI would have  paid out for up to the term of the loan if he was off work  sick. And it 
would have covered the repayments for up to 12 months per claim if he lost his job. The 
policy also included life and critical illness cover,  which, in the event of a successful claim 
would pay of the outstanding balance (aside from any missed  payments). 
All things  considered, I think it provided  a useful  benefit and I cant say that that advisers 
recommendation was unsuitable.
From looking  at the loan agreement, I think the cost of the policy would have  been  shown  
including the amount  of the PPI premium, the interest  payable  on the premium and the total 
cost. So I think Mr H would have understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the 
policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr H made a successful claim he could 
have got back  quite a bit more than he paid for it.
Mr H would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  the policy 
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr H. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr H thought 
hed repay  the loan early, when he took out the loan and PPI. So I dont think  this meant  the 
policy wasnt right for him, or that it would have led him to decide not to buy it.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
All things  considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the 
PPI policy  and Mr Hs circumstances, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Mr H says that by offering  compensation in relation to the commission and profit share,  
Lloyds has accepted liability and should refund  the premiums he paid for the policy. He says 
that because Lloyds was in breach of section 140A of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 the 
whole agreement was unfair.
Ref: DRN58419463I accept that if Mr H went to court and it was decided there was an unfair relationship  under 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, he might be awarded a full refund of the premiums 
he paid  this would  be a remedy available. But following  a Supreme Court judgement that 
dealt with, amongst  other things, the provisions around an unfair relationship under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  the financial regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) set 
out (through new rules  and guidance)  what businesses should  do if they established that the 
failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair  relationship.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds has done  what the rules it must  follow tell it to do. And while Ive thought about 
whether theres  anything  about Mr Hs particular complaint and circumstances that means  
Lloyds should  do something different, I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been made 
is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Lloyds to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month  on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr H paid if the loan was paid off early.  Lloyds should also pay Mr H 8%* simple  interest  on 
the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
I note that that Lloyds  recent offer of commission compensation to Mr H includes another  
loan that Mr H had with Lloyds that was taken at a later date. Our service  looked at the sale 
of that loan under a separate complaint reference back  in 2015. It is up to Mr H to decide 
whether he wishes  to accept Lloyds offer to pay back to Mr H, on that loan, any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
To be clear this decision deals with the loan taken  in 2007. As mentioned above, I think  the 
offer thats been made in relation to the loan in 2007  is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN58419464my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5841946