K821x#15complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with borrowing he took out at 
a retail store in 1997. The credit was provided  by a high street bank,  but a company called 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited is responsible for answering Mr Hs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further  
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H accepted my decision and we didnt 
get a response  from FICL. So theres no reason for me to change the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and FICL should:
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest 8% a year from .
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I require  Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay the 
compensation Ive set out above . 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52179872summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI)  with borrowing  he took out at a well-
known retail store  in 1997. Mr H was buying some electronic equipment at the time. The account  was 
branded with the name of a major retailer and the credit facility was provided by a high street  bank. 
But a company called Financial Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering  Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken out in the shop and added after Mr H signed a loan application form, most 
probably at the counter. Mr H says he was led to believe he needed to take out the PPI to get a better  
deal. He says he didnt want this type of cover.
Our adjudicator has assessed  this complaint and provided a view that it shouldnt  be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im considering upholding  Mr Hs complaint.
I was sent the agreement Mr H signed when he took out the account and PPI. I can certainly see 
quite a few ways in which this form could  have been set out in a better and clearer way, not least  
because the PPI box was already pre-selected with an X. However, its obviously possible  that Mr H 
had agreed  for the form to be printed out with the X on it as a result of a discussion that had taken  
place about what he wanted to do. Weve seen a number of similar sales where  this may have 
happened, so it could have  happened in this case too.  
FICL provided a non-advised sale and this means  it didnt need to make sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr Hs situation. But it still needed to provide enough clear information  for Mr H to make an 
informed decision about the cover  and this is where I think FICL fell short  of its responsibilities.
The form didnt contain  very clear information about the PPI costs and I cant  see where the monthly 
or total premium  was set out for Mr H. And because it says those  choosing PPI will have  the cost 
notified to them on their statement, it seems to me that consumers had to await their statement to 
find out how much they were  going to be charged for the cover.
Those being sold policies like this had a right to know how much they were  going  to have to pay for 
the cover.  I cant see anywhere that this was done  at the point of sale. However, if FICL wishes to 
point this out to me, or send in more  documents, Ill consider what  it has to say on the matter. 
Its for this reason that I think the policy may have been mis-sold.
what FICL should do to put things right
FICL should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI. The policy  should be 
cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and FICL should:
Pay Mr H the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN52179873Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
8% a year from .
If Mr H made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am considering upholding Mr Hs complaint  and directing  Financial 
Insurance Company  Limited to pay compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  
my decision  before 27 March 2019
Ref: DRN5217987