K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society (trading as Derbyshire Building Society)     
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004.  They  paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The mortgage was in joint names but the PPI covered Mr B only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice about whether to 
buy the policy.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer from October 2004.  I can see under  the heading, 
Insurance, the offer mentions that Mr and Mrs B had to have buildings insurance. But there 
is no mention they had to take PPI.
Nationwide has also shown us the mortgage  application  form which  includes a section on 
PPI which  has been completed. There is also a letter addressed to Mr and Mrs B which 
explains that the PPI has been  recommended  to them and what to do if they changed their 
mind about  taking it out.
I also have to take into account  that the PPI remained in force for many  years.  If 
Mr and Mrs B had not agreed to the PPI or didnt  want the cover,  Id expect them  to have 
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that they did so.
Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that Mr and Mrs B were told the PPI 
was optional and they agreed  to take out the policy.
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B so it had to take steps to ensure  it was 
right for them. Looking at their circumstances at the time I think  it was, Ill explain why:
The policy was set up to cover Mr B only. From  the mortgage application form I can see he 
was the main wage-earner in the household,  so it seems the policy  was set up to cover the 
right person.
Mr B was eligible for the cover.  And he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations contained in the terms and conditions. For instance he has told us he had no    
pre-existing medical conditions that would not have been covered. So Mr B would have been 
able to make  a successful  claim if he needed to.
Ref: DRN56052892Mr Bs employer  wouldve  paid him sick pay for up to a year.  Mr B has told us hed get full 
pay for some time, followed by half pay. But this policy  could have paid out in addition  to any 
sick pay and for up to 12 months.  So I still think Mr and Mrs B wouldve found the policy 
useful especially if Mr B couldnt work for an extended period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mr B had lost his job, meaning  any 
redundancy pay couldve been used  for other living costs.
Mr and Mrs B had some savings, but they chose to take the mortgage they did rather than 
use their savings to borrow less. This suggests  it was important to them to keep the savings  
intact. And the policy would have allowed them to do that if things went  wrong.
So I think the policy Nationwide recommended  was right for Mr and Mrs B. Nationwide  also 
had to give Mr and Mrs B clear information  so they could decide whether to take the policy  
out.
I cant know what was said at the meeting in 2004. And it could be that Nationwide did not 
give Mr and Mrs B all the clear information  it should  have. But Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take 
out the PPI so I think they were interested  in this type of cover. And the policy was right for 
them. It was free for the first six months, and the monthly premium  after that seems to have 
been affordable  and competitive with other,  similar  polices  from around that time. So even if 
Nationwide had given  Mr and Mrs B all the clear information it should have, I still think it is 
likely they would have  gone ahead and taken out the policy.
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs B were  given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy 
and they chose to take it out. I think the policy was right for them. And even if they were 
given clearer information about the policy theyd still have bought it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award  against  Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605289