K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  sold to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax  at the time) mis-sold 
them the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland (BoS) throughout this decision rather 
than Halifax.
background
The policy Mr and Mrs W have complained  about  was sold in 2000. BoS says it covered 
both of them on an equal (50/50) basis and, in return for a monthly premium of just under 
£37, the policy paid a monthly benefit  of just over £600 to cover Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage 
repayment and mortgage related costs.
Unhappy with BoSs response to the complaint, Mr and Mrs W referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with what  our adjudicator had to say. So the complaint was passed 
to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  I wasnt persuaded the policy had been mis-sold. So I didnt think BoS 
owed Mr and Mrs W any money.
Neither party has made any new arguments or provided more  information in response to my 
provisional decision. And as the deadline I set has now passed,  Ive decided  I can consider 
this complaint for a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account  in deciding 
this case.
And having done all of that, I still dont think the policy was mis-sold  for the same reasons 
Ive already given.  So heres  a summary.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think it was more  likely that Mr and Mrs W agreed to 
take the policy knowing they had a choice when doing so.
BoS says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W  which means it had to check  that 
the policy was right for them  given their needs and circumstances. And based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time,  I dont think the policy  was an unsuitable 
recommendation to have  made on the whole.
I accept that its possible  BoS didnt clearly  disclose all of the information it needed to. But 
for the same reasons  I dont think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think theres  enough 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs W would  have acted differently   and not taken  the policy  
had they been given  clearer  information  overall.
Ref: DRN52954942my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52954943copy  of my provisional  decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint  including everything that both parties  have said throughout.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
And having done all of that, I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs W say that they didnt know the policy was optional because  they thought it was part of 
their mortgage. I dont  doubt  the honesty of their recollections. But they havent given  us any detail on 
what was said and/or  done  to make them think they didnt have a choice.  And while this isnt that 
surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the event in question took place, the extent to which 
theyre able to recall what happened does play its part when weighing things  up.
BoS has provided us with an extract  from Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application form.  In that extract 
there is a section called Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance.  And in that section 
theres the statement:  Yes,  I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. Mr 
and Mrs W signed to take the PPI just below this statement. They  also signed a separate Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance Application. But theres nothing persuasive in the paperwork to suggest  they 
had to sign to take PPI. And with limited evidence  to suggest otherwise, Im satisfied  at present  
that its more likely they agreed to take the policy knowing  that they had a choice when doing  so.
BoS says that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W  which means it had to make sure that the 
policy was right for them. And based on everything Ive seen so far, I think that it was suitable for 
them overall.  
When Mr and Mrs W were asked about their circumstances at the time of sale (which included  their 
health) by our adjudicator, it doesnt look they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover  which means the policy  could  have  been  useful had something gone wrong.  Indeed, BoS 
has told us that Mr and Mrs W made a total of four claims  between them  three by Mr W and one by 
and Mrs W. And while  they say they did try to claim when Mr W had an operation but couldnt 
because they were entitled  to sick pay, BoSs internal records  do seem to suggest that at least  two of 
the claims by Mr W were actually  paid.
I know Mr and Mrs W say that they were entitled to some sick pay and had some  savings. But they 
have told us that they cant  remember how much they had in savings. And while I accept  what theyve 
told us about their sick pay, they were responsible  for a significant and long-term  financial 
commitment secured against  their home. The mortgage repayments were  important repayments to 
maintain in the event they found themselves out of or unable to work. And as the policy  would have 
helped them  to keep  up with the repayments over a reasonable period of time in return  for a premium  
that there isnt any persuasive evidence  to suggest was unaffordable, Im not persuaded  the 
recommendation was unsuitable  especially when the policy also provided  them with the freedom to 
use their sick pay and savings  elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs W also say that they had existing  disability cover from their pensions and a health 
scheme they were members  of. However,  having looked at the information  theyve recently  provided  
to support what theyve said, it doesnt look like they had the same sort of cover as the policy offered. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W, BoS also had to give them  clear  
information. So thats what Ive looked at next.
Its possible the information given to Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable overall, Im not persuaded  better 
information about the policy would have led them to make a different  decision and not take the cover.
Ref: DRN5295494