K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Loans 2 Go Limited  lent to her in an irresponsible manner. She also 
complains that the lender has treated her unfairly in the way it calculated the amount she 
would need to repay to end her first loan early, and in how it has chased her for repayments 
on her second loan.
background
Miss A was given two loans by Loans 2 Go. Both loans were  scheduled to be repaid  in 
18 monthly instalments.  Miss A repaid the first loan just over a month after taking it out. But 
Miss A appears to have faced problems repaying  the second loan and it remained 
outstanding when she made  her complaint. A summary of Miss As borrowing from 
Loans 2 Go is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 31/01/2018 06/03/2018 £ 500
2 29/05/2018 - £ 600
Miss As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing each loan had been  proportionate. And she didnt 
think those checks had shown anything that suggested the loans shouldnt  have been 
agreed. Our adjudicator looked at the communication Loans 2 Go had with Miss A about  
repaying the first loan early, and about her payment problems on the second loan. She didnt  
think that Loans 2 Go had treated Miss A unfairly. So she didnt recommend that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Miss A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss As complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave  the loans to Miss A required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Loans 2 Go had to think  about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss A. 
In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments  wouldnt 
cause Miss A undue  difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Miss A. 
Ref: DRN57852412Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed  to before agreeing  
to lend to Miss A.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Miss A before it agreed the loans. It asked her 
for details  of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit  file. 
Miss A had agreed to repay the first loan over a period  of 18 months. Although that meant 
her monthly repayments would be relatively  modest compared to what  she said about  her 
income and expenditure, she was still making a relatively lengthy  commitment to 
Loans 2 Go. So I do think it was right that Loans 2 Go sought some  independent  information  
about Miss As finances rather than just relying on the information  shed  provided.  I think that 
the checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the first loan were proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs  to react 
appropriately to what those checks show. Loans 2 Go has given us the results of its credit 
check. Ive looked at them carefully to see if those results should have caused  any concerns 
to the lender. Although  the credit check showed  that Miss A had defaulted on an account 
around two years earlier I dont think it showed any evidence of more  recent  problems that 
should have caused additional concerns  to the lender.  So I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Loans 2 Go to agree to give this loan to Miss A.
Miss A repaid the first loan around  a month  after taking it out. That might  have caused some 
concern to Loans 2 Go  shed originally intended  to repay  it over a period of 18 months. But 
Miss A didnt immediately  take another loan  it would be almost three months  before she 
asked to borrow again. So on balance, considering the size of the second  loan and therefore  
the repayments that Miss A would need to make,  I again think  the checks Loans 2 Go did 
were proportionate.
Ref: DRN57852413The credit check at that time did suggest  that Miss As financial position had deteriorated a 
little. Her overall credit score had reduced. And there were a couple  of instances where she 
had been late making her repayments. But the credit search  results  didnt suggest  that 
Miss A was borrowing heavily from other lenders and therefore reliant on credit. Nor did it 
suggest that she was facing  continuing  problems managing her finances.  So as before 
I dont think it reasonable  to conclude that Loans 2 Go should have declined this application.
Ive looked at what happened when  Miss A asked to repay her first loan early. The 
agreement shed signed clearly set out the daily interest she would need  to pay if she 
wanted to end the agreement early. So I think what Loans 2 Go charged her was entirely 
reasonable. And when she failed to make  her repayments as agreed on the second loan 
I think it was fair that Loans 2 Go pursued her for payment. So I dont think the lender has 
acted unreasonably in its contact with Miss A.
I appreciate how disappointing  my decision  will be for Miss A. I can see from the bank 
statements that she has sent us that her finances were  under great  pressure when she 
asked for these loans.  But that wasnt something she told Loans 2 Go when making  her 
applications, nor is it something  that what I consider to be proportionate checks  uncovered. 
I think it was reasonable  for Loans  2 Go to base its assessment  on the results of those 
checks and agree to give both loans to Miss A.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5785241