K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold them  payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In March 1989 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage  with Co-op Bank.  Just over a year later in 
May 1990 following a conversation over the phone with Co-op Bank, Mr and Mrs B took out 
PPI to cover Mr Bs income and protect their mortgage payments in the event Mr B couldnt 
work through  accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £24.75 a month and it provided  a benefit of £500  per month which  covered 
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage  payment and provided a small additional income.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs B chose  to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd 
lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs B disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Co-op Bank  says it doesnt know whether this was an advised sale or not. Mr and Mrs B say 
it was. I will assume  that Co-op  Bank did advise Mr and Mrs B and recommend they take the 
policy to as it is to Mr and Mrs Bs advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. 
This means  Co-op Bank not only had to provide Mr and Mrs B with enough  information  
about the policy so they could make an informed decision  about  it. It also had to ensure the 
policy was right or suitable  for them based  on their needs and circumstances at the time. 
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 29 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Co-op Bank  make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice about  PPI?
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage  in March  1989  and at the time declined PPI. They took 
the PPI out over a year later following their telephone conversation  with Co-op  Bank. So I 
think that Mr and Mrs B were aware  that the PPI was optional and chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN59006972did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs B properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs B lost out?
I dont know what Co-op  Bank  said or did when it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. I 
also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs B were given about  PPI. For example whether 
the policys costs  and benefits were  made  clear  to them and if they were told about the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B agreed to take 
the cover  out without  knowing  anything about  it, but I dont know if they received everything  
they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Co-op  
Bank recommended to Mr and Mrs B that they take out PPI to cover Mr B. I accept Mr and 
Mrs B may not have been  treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have  lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  and needs  at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  for Mr B was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Co-op  Bank had done more.  My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr B was eligible  for his cover  and all its benefits.
Mr B was employed and in good health at the time,  so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr B didnt  have any sick pay entitlement from his employer and Mr and Mrs B say 
they didnt have any savings. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months for 
each claim. So I think  Mr and Mrs B had a need for Mr Bs cover and that it would 
have been useful to them if Mr B found himself unable to work. It could have helped 
them financially at what would be a difficult time - it could have helped them protect  
their home.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £25 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.
I note that Mr and Mrs B say they wouldve had to wait 3 months to claim on the policy and 
claiming wouldve  affected their DSS  payments.  I dont know  if this was the case  but if it 
was, I dont think this wouldve changed their need  for the policy or its suitability for them.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs B may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Co-op Bank  in its dealings 
with them,  I find theyve  not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive 
detailed above,  I think Mr and Mrs B would have been in the same position if Co-op Bank 
had done more and properly advised  and informed them - I think they would have still taken 
out the PPI.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs B have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Ref: DRN59006973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5900697