K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc sent them  an overdraft letter  when their 
account went overdrawn due to charges applied by the bank. They  also complain  that 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc staff caused Mrs M a lot of stress when she called to sort things out.
background
Mr and Mrs Ms account went  into overdraft by £14.32 in March  2019 due to bank charges 
that were applied for an international transaction. Clydesdale sent them  a letter  notifying  
them that the account was overdrawn. Mrs M then called Clydesdale  to complain about the 
correspondence and the way the charges were applied. She called  Clydesdale several times 
and spoke to various  members of staff but she wasnt satisfied with the response so she 
complained to Clydesdale about  the way she was treated.
Clydesdale looked  into the complaint. It recognised that it had made a mistake  in the letter  
that was sent because  it appeared to be signed  from the manager of a branch thats now 
closed. It offered to waive the £6 unplanned overdraft fee but Mrs M didnt accept that. 
Clydesdale apologised for Mrs Ms experience with customer services  and said itd provided 
feedback to relevant managers.  It didnt  uphold the complaint  about  the international 
payments and related charges as it said Mr and Mrs M had instructed the bank to make the 
payments and the charges from the foreign bank cant be confirmed in advance.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  feel this was enough so they came to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  the complaint should be upheld.  So they asked for 
review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive listened  to the ten calls 
Mrs M had with Clydesdale in March 2019. I can see that the experience  was very upsetting  
for Mrs M, but based on what Ive seen, I think Clydesdales done enough to put things right 
and Ill explain why.
From the information I have, it appears the charges were applied correctly  to the account 
and reflected the charges  of the foreign bank. But I understand that the main point of the 
complaint is the way Clydesdale  handled  things once the account went overdrawn.
Mr and Mrs M clearly  felt very upset  about receiving the automated  letter about the 
unplanned overdraft.  Clydesdales  apologised for the fact that the letter appeared to come  
from a closed branch  and its offered  to waive the £6 overdraft fee. I can understand the 
mistake was annoying for Mr and Mrs M but I dont  think it caused them any financial loss. 
Banks regularly use automated correspondence to inform their customers about issues  like 
unplanned overdrafts  so they can deal with things quickly to avoid debt spiralling. So I dont 
think it was inappropriate  for Clydesdale to write to Mr and Mrs M when their account went 
overdrawn even though it was a small amount. In the circumstances I think  Clydesdale  dealt 
with this part of the complaint appropriately.  
Ive listened to the calls Mrs M made to various Clydesdale advisers.  I dont underestimate 
how upsetting  the situation was for Mrs M and its clear that she found the calls very 
distressing. I understand that shes dealing  with a lot of stress related to her ill-health and 
Ref: DRN58183612that having all these calls made her feel worse, especially as the calls went on for several  
hours. Mrs Ms now told Clydesdale  about her health problems and the stress thats causing 
her and her husband. In the circumstances, Clydesdale may want  to discuss any ways it 
could tailor the way it communicates with them in future to reflect that. I understand it does 
have teams who are trained to support  vulnerable consumers suffering from the kind of 
issues Mrs Ms told them about.
The conversations  were difficult and at times  heated. Some  of them  were  cut off 
unexpectedly but it doesnt seem that staff hung up on Mrs M deliberately. I dont think the 
Clydesdale advisers  were rude or inappropriate in the ways  they tried to sort things out and 
address Mrs Ms complaints but unfortunately Mrs M didnt feel they were listening to her. An 
arranged overdraft limit was set up to avoid any future letters  if the account accidentally  went 
into overdraft by a small  amount in the future.  So I think Clydesdales  apology for Mrs Ms 
experience with the calls was a reasonable response and I dont think  any compensation 
would be appropriate  in this case.  
I understand there are other points of complaint Mrs M raised during the phone calls but 
those are dealt with separately. Overall I think  Clydesdale tried to address the issues  raised 
by Mrs M about the unarranged overdraft, the letter and the calls. Clydesdales said the offer 
to refund the £6 overdraft fee is still there. So I dont think it needs to do anything else in 
relation to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5818361