K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr W have  complained that the early  repayment  charge  (ERC)  they paid to 
redeem their mortgage with The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) is unfair.  
background
In September  2016 Mr B and Mr W took out a fixed rate mortgage with RBS. The mortgage  
offer explained that if the mortgage was repaid before 30 September 2018 an ERC  would  be 
applied, to a maximum of £4,230.
In August  2018  Mr B and Mr W redeemed their mortgage. They  then complained about the 
ERC saying  it was unfair. Mr B and Mr W said that the ERC they paid of just over £2,000 
was more than the single monthly payment of just under £800 left of the fixed rate period.
RBS said it had been made clear in a call on 16 August 2018 that there would be an ERC if 
the mortgage was redeemed before 30 September, and it rejected the complaint. Mr B and 
Mr W said thered  been earlier calls in January  2018  when  they were selling their property 
and back then theyd  been told that an ERC  would not be applicable  on full repayment. RBS 
said there wasnt any record of any earlier calls, but if Mr B and Mr W provided dates and 
times then it would look into it again.  No further  calls were found.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was clear in the paperwork and 
RBS had calculated  it fairly; he said ERCs werent calculated on an individual  basis.  
Mr B and Mr W didnt  agree and so its been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr B and Mr W, but although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments  
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
Mr B - who has been leading this complaint  and was dealing with RBS - has said:
Further to my frustration and my experience thus far, I have been  misled on several  
occasions by RBSs customer services who confirmed that an ERC would not be applicable 
on full repayment.  Consequently I was somewhat  surprised at the time of redeeming  my 
mortgage to discover  that this was not the case
Whilst Mr Bs said these  multiple calls happened  in January 2018 RBS has been unable  to 
find any record of them. Thats not to say they didnt happen, but if there  had been calls that 
went into account specific detail  (rather than just being general non-account specific queries) 
then its unlikely that multiple RBS employees all failed to make  call notes. Its also unlikely 
that multiple RBS employees would also make such a basic mistake, as that would be a very 
straightforward query for the mortgage team to answer. The answer would always  be that 
the ERC  is due if the mortgage is redeemed  before  30 September  2018.
Ref: DRN51729402Ive also listened  to the call that took place in August 2018 and having  done so that doesnt 
support the testimony that there  had been earlier calls that gave a different answer. I would  
have expected Mr B to have mentioned that hed previously been told there would be no 
ERC had that been the case. Instead this call comes  across entirely as being the very first 
one where the subject  has been discussed.  There is absolutely nothing  in that call that would  
indicate thered  been any earlier  discussions at all.
I understand Mr Bs point  he made  in the call that if he could have paid the 28th (that is the 
September 2018) monthly payment  early  then he would have made all the payments due in 
the fixed rate period, and that it would obviously be a lot cheaper for him to pay just under 
£800 rather than just over £2,000. But it wasnt an ERC until 28 payments were made; it was 
an ERC until 30 September 2018.  Even if Mr B and Mr W had paid an amount equivalent to 
all 28 payments within the first year then theyd still have needed to pay a contractual 
payment each and every  month after that, and would have incurred the ERC  if they repaid 
the mortgage before 30 September 2018.
Mr B and Mr W told us they were moving  house and RBS couldnt offer them  any additional 
borrowing, so it could  be their recollections  about  a previous conversation about the ERC 
relate to that. I say this because if RBS had been  able to offer them the additional  borrowing 
they needed then they could have applied to port their mortgage product to the new 
property, and if the sale and purchase completed  simultaneously then the ERC wouldnt 
have been due as the fixed  rate mortgage  would have continued  secured  on the new 
property  until 30 September  2018 as per the original mortgage  contract.  
All things  considered Im satisfied RBS didnt  tell Mr B and Mr W that they could redeem their 
mortgage (other than if they were  porting) before 30 September  2018 without incurring an 
ERC.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our terms of reference to comment  on, or 
otherwise determine,  how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr B and Mr Ws particular situation.  When I do that, Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were  set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have 
been readily understandable to Mr B and Mr W; certainly, the information about the ERC 
was set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr B and 
Mr W knew  or at least should have known   how much theyd have to pay if they repaid 
the mortgage before 30 September 2018.   
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the costs  resulting from early  termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC,  and can calculate  the same level of ERC  across a group 
of mortgages  of similar type, rather than for individual loans.  RBS is entitled to set an ERC 
based not on the actual  cost to it of Mr B and Mr W ending  their own mortgage  early, but on 
a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar  
type. And theres  no obligation on RBS to vary that amount just because Mr B and Mr W 
repaid their mortgage  only a month  before the ERC  period  was due to end.
Lenders generally raise  money to offer preferential rates  for its mortgage customers  (both 
new and existing)  on the wholesale money  markets. Theres  a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh  those costs  in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money  its borrowed. If a mortgage 
Ref: DRN51729403ends early, it doesnt get that interest,  and so doesnt make back  the costs in raising the 
funds to offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate  individual losses  as and when individual  
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual,  when  or if they might do so. So RBS is allowed to project  how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what  point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion  that cost across  the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, but for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; RBS doesnt  have to refund the difference,  but equally 
it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other  way.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied RBS was entitled  to charge Mr B and Mr W an ERC as 
set out in their mortgage contract when  they repaid their mortgage early. Im also satisfied 
there was no requirement for RBS to only charge  an amount worked out based  on Mr B and 
Mr Ws individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge an amount 
based on its pre-estimate  of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages  of similar 
type.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5172940