K821x#15complaint
Mrs J has complained about Friends Life Limiteds decision to terminate her claim under her 
employers group income protection insurance  policy.
background
Mrs J was a member of her employers group income protection  insurance policy  which was 
held with Friends Life. The policy would pay benefit,  after a waiting period of 26 weeks, if 
Mrs J was unable to perform her occupation due to illness or injury.
In 2009, Mrs J stopped  working due to chronic  fatigue syndrome (CFS).  Her employer  made 
a claim under the policy on her behalf. Friends Life accepted  the claim and, after the waiting 
period, began paying benefit.
Mrs Js claim remained  in payment until 2016. Friends  Life undertook  a review of the claim. 
As part of that review  it arranged for Mrs J in January 2016 to be interviewed by a nurse and 
in June 2016 to undergo an Independent Medical  Examination (IME)  by Dr M, a consultant  in 
occupational medicine.  Dr M concluded  that Mrs J was able to return  to work for 12 to 16 
hours a week and that she should be able to build  up to full-time working  within three 
months.
Friends Life provided Dr M with further evidence on Mrs Js levels  of activity  gathered  
through internet searches and surveillance  footage.  Based  in particular on the internet 
search evidence  which  showed that Mrs J was undertaking  a variety of runs on a frequent  
basis, Dr M revised  his opinion. He concluded that Mrs J was capable of returning  to work 
for 25 hours a week, building  up to full-time working  over a period of four to six weeks.
In light of Dr Ms conclusions,  Friends Life advised  Mrs Js employer in October 2016 that it 
was terminating  her claim with immediate  effect though it would  consider  paying 
proportionate benefit for a period of time if she were to return  to work. Friends  Life further 
advised the employer that it felt Mrs J had deliberately misled both the nurse and Dr M over 
the extent of her capabilities. As a result, it said it was removing Mrs J from cover  under the 
policy meaning she would not be able to make a linked claim under the policy in the event of 
future absence. 
Mrs J appealed against Friends Lifes decision.  She provided a report by Dr V, an 
occupational health physician,  who was commissioned by her employer to assess  her in 
January 2017  and who concluded she was medically unable  to work.
Friends Life wouldnt change its position. Mrs J therefore referred  her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
I have noted the court case [this was a court case to which Mrs Js husband had referred 
and in which Friends Life had been found to have acted unfairly]. However, we consider 
each complaint based on its own merits. I dont think the decision of the court  is binding  on 
Friends Life in this particular case.
For Friends Life to terminate the claim, it needed to show that Mrs J was no longer medically 
prevented from performing either  her occupation  or another occupation to which she was 
Ref: DRN52135682suited. Based on the advice of Dr M, Friends Life considered that Mrs J was capable  of 
returning to her normal occupation  for 25 hours a week  and that she could build  up to full-
time working  within four to six weeks. Im satisfied that this was Dr Ms clear opinion after he 
had examined  Mrs J and considered all the evidence  so, on the face of it, Friends  Lifes 
decision was reasonable.
Mrs Js husband has challenged Dr Ms expertise in CFS. However, he is an occupational 
health consultant and has confirmed  he has plenty of experience in dealing  with people  
suffering from CFS. I think it likely that an occupational health consultant would have this 
experience and see no reasonable grounds  for disputing his competence.
Mrs Js husband has pointed to the other medical evidence on file. I have considered this. 
However, while there is no doubt  that Mrs J had at times  been  severely  limited  by her CFS,  
she hadnt been seen in the CFS clinic for nearly a year at the time she underwent  the IME, 
nor was there anything  in her recent GP notes to indicate her continued incapacity. So I 
dont think there was any recent evidence to counter Dr Ms opinion.
When she appealed  against Friends Lifes decision, Mrs J provided  the January 2017  report  
by Dr V. Friends Life sent this to Dr M for his comment. Dr M pointed  out that Dr V wasnt 
necessarily at consultant  level.  Furthermore, unlike Dr M, he appeared to have produced his 
report without seeing Mrs Js medical records (or, indeed, the results of the internet searches 
and Dr Ms own reports). I think that these  factors mean more reliance should be placed on 
Dr Ms opinion than on that of Dr V.
Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Friends Life to rely on Dr Ms opinion  and to 
terminate the claim on the basis that Mrs J was no longer incapacitated under the terms of 
the policy. 
The terms of the policy allow  Friends Life to remove an employee from cover  if that 
employee has failed  in their duty of utmost good  faith by supplying  Friends Life with 
misleading, incorrect or incomplete information.  Friends Life said that Mrs J had failed to 
disclose to either the nurse in January 2016 or Dr M in June 2106 about  the extent of her 
running activities. In particular, it said Mrs J had told Dr M she hadnt taken part in any 
running events since  2013. However,  internet searches showed that she had continued to 
run since  that time including in some organised events and had completed a marathon in 
April 2016. She had also done a run of just over 10km in May 2016  which  was eight  days  
before she attended  the IME. Friends Life thought Mrs J had made a conscious  effort  to 
mislead the nurse and Dr M. It decided on this basis to remove  her from cover under the 
policy.
I acknowledge Dr M says, after checking  his handwritten notes, that Mrs J had denied doing  
any running since 2013 and also says her level of activity as shown in the internet searches 
was inconsistent with her presentation at the IME. However, Mrs J has a different 
recollection and says she wasnt specifically asked by Dr M about  her running. She says she 
disclosed her running  activity to the nurse  in January 2016  and therefore  questions why she 
would have sought to hide this from Dr M.
I note that Mrs J told the nurse she regularly exercised in the gym, including sometimes on 
the running machine, though this doesnt  really  reflect the true extent of her running activity  
as revealed by the internet searches. However,  for Friends Life to remove  Mrs J from cover  
it has to show she deliberately misled it so as to benefit under the policy.  While there  are 
inconsistencies between  Mrs Js account of her limitations and her running activity as shown 
Ref: DRN52135683in the internet searches,  in the absence of anything to show exactly  what  question  was 
asked in the two interviews I dont think Friends Life has done enough to show that Mrs J 
deliberately misled it. I therefore think it was unfair  for Friends  Life to have removed her from 
cover. While I understand that she has since left her employment and so cover cannot  be 
reinstated, I nonetheless agree with the investigator that Friends Lifes accusation and action 
will have caused Mrs J distress for which it should pay her compensation of £500.
The investigator further recommended that Friends Life should pay Mrs J the amount it 
would have paid to her employer in proportionate benefit had she attempted  a return to work. 
Friends Life said it couldnt comply  with this because under the terms of the policy benefit 
had to be paid directly to the employer as it was the policyholder. I dont accept Friends  
Lifes argument on this point. The benefit  would ultimately have gone to Mrs J and she is no 
longer employed  by the policyholder so the money cant  now be paid through  that route. I 
see no reason why Friends Life wouldnt be able to pay Mrs J directly  the amount she would 
have received in proportionate benefit even  if it wants technically to call this sum 
compensation rather than benefit.
However, Friends Life has also argued that proportionate benefit is payable  only if someone 
returns to work and since Mrs J didnt ever attempt  to return  to work  it shouldnt have to pay 
her anything. The investigators argument was that Friends  Life had removed Mrs Js cover 
before she could attempt a gradual return to work. However, while  Friends Life had removed 
Mrs J from cover so as to prevent any linked future claim, it specifically invited her employer  
to apply for proportionate benefit in the event that she attempted a gradual return to work.
So while I think Friends Lifes decision to remove Mrs J from cover was unfair, I dont  think 
this should have affected Mrs Js decision on whether to return  to work. Given that Im 
satisfied Mrs J was capable of returning to work but chose not to attempt this, I dont think  
Friends Life should have  to pay her the amount it would have paid in proportionate benefit  
had she made such an attempt.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mrs Js husband responded on her behalf  to say she didnt accept the provisional decision.  
He made  the following points:
It was the wrongful  withdrawal of cover  which  led to Mrs Js dismissal by her 
employer and therefore it was invalid for Friends Life to say it couldnt  pay benefit 
beyond the end of her employment.
Dr Ms approach showed that he was either  incompetent  to assess  CFS or was 
biased in favour of Friends Life.
The court case which  he had previously highlighted  had certain elements which were 
identical to his wifes case and therefore  I had been  wrong  to ignore it.
His wifes CFS fluctuated in its effect on her physical  and mental well-being and she 
had never been in a position where  she could have returned to work with any 
consistent level of performance.
Friends Life didnt comment on my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN52135684my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld only in part.
Mrs J remained  in employment  while her claim was being paid. I think  the termination of her 
claim therefore indirectly led to her dismissal. But Ive said I was satisfied that Friends Life 
acted fairly  in terminating her claim. I think Friends  Life acted unfairly  in removing Mrs J from 
cover under the policy but I dont see how that was linked to her dismissal. In any case, I 
have explained  that I dont think Friends Life was required to pay proportionate benefit  even  
up to the time of her dismissal.
I have already explained why Im satisfied that Dr M was competent  to assess  Mrs J. The 
further comments which Mrs Js husband has made  dont persuade me to change  my mind 
on this point, nor do they cause me to think that Dr M was biased.
I have already explained how each  case is judged on its own merits. The court  case  to which 
Mrs Js husband refers  may have similarities to this complaint but it isnt identical in every  
respect. The courts findings dont  bind Friends Life in this complaint.
I am aware  of how CFS sufferers may have good days  and bad days. I am confident that 
Dr M will have understood the fluctuating nature of the condition when he reached his 
conclusion that Mrs J was able to return to work. 
In view of the above, and the fact that Friends Life hasnt offered  comment,  I see no reason 
to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Friends Life Limited  to pay Mrs J £500  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213568