K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled his private medical  
insurance claim.
background
Whilst abroad, Mr C had a fall and suffered multiple  fractures. He was repatriated back  to the 
UK and admitted to an NHS hospital.  Mr C wanted  rehabilitation, but this claim was initially  
turned down by AXA.  However, AXA then said it would consider  covering this if he was seen 
by a rehabilitation specialist. AXA gave Mr C some names of recognised specialists he could 
see, but two of them were no longer working  out of Mr Cs chosen hospital.  Mr C later saw a 
different specialist and his rehabilitation treatment was then covered.
Mr C was unhappy at AXAs  handling  of his claim.  He thought  AXA should have arranged  for 
him to be admitted to a private hospital on his return to the UK. He was also unhappy that 
AXA didnt initially accept  his claim for rehabilitation, as well as the confusion around  finding 
a recognised specialist. AXA didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint,  so he brought his complaint to 
this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2019. My findings were:
After Mr C had his fall, he says he contacted AXA to tell it that hed need  private  treatment 
on his return to the UK, but it didnt respond  to him. I dont know how he initially  contacted 
AXA, but its records show he first contacted it about  the matter  by phone on 19 October. Ive 
listened to that call and AXA explained that to cover  private treatment, Mr C would need  to 
first return  to the UK and then obtain  a referral from either an accident and emergency 
department, or his GP. 
A few days  later, whilst still abroad,  Mr C called AXA to again see if it would allow him to be 
transferred directly to a private hospital in the UK. AXA told him it needed  to know  which 
private hospital he intended  to go to, and it would need to see a full treatment plan before it 
could authorise  this. AXA confirmed it would send  confirmation of this in an email. I note that 
this information  was completely different to the information Mr C had been given in the 
previous phone call. 
I havent seen  the email  that AXA then sent Mr C, but I understand it confirmed what  medical 
information it needed to see before it could authorise a private hospital admission.  It 
apparently also included a link so that Mr C could  search for AXA recognised hospitals and 
specialists. Mr C apparently found  this very confusing, as he didnt know  which  hospital  or 
specialist he should  choose for the treatment  he needed. His admission hadnt been 
authorised at that point, but Mr C would have  been able to see from the list of hospitals 
which ones near to his home were recognised by AXA.  I dont think  AXA did anything wrong 
by providing him with this information. 
Mr C sent AXA some information from his treating doctor abroad, but this simply said that 
Mr C had been admitted  to intensive  care after a severe trauma  and he wouldnt be able to 
work or travel for 60 days. I can therefore understand why AXA didnt accept his claim for 
hospitalisation based on this report. AXA again  told Mr C what  information  it needed.  At this 
point, Mr C felt he had no choice but to repatriate to an NHS hospital. 
Ref: DRN54429442This whole situation  was unusual because Mr C wasnt  in the UK at the time of making  the claim. 
It may be that it was difficult  for Mr C to communicate with his treating  doctors  and explain what  
information he needed from them. On the other  hand, I wouldnt have expected AXA to have 
authorised his private hospital admission without  a medical report  confirming what treatment was 
needed. Mr C could  have  gone directly to a private hospital (presumably his travel insurer  was 
arranging the repatriation and could have organised  this), but without authorisation from AXA he 
ran the risk that AXA may not cover his costs.  I can therefore understand why he chose to go to 
an NHS hospital, but I cant hold AXA responsible  for this outcome. 
Whilst in the NHS hospital, Mr C wanted  AXA to arrange for him to be transferred to a 
private hospital. AXA explained  he firstly  needed  to be assessed  by his treating doctor and it 
needed confirmation of the treatment he needed.  I think this was reasonable. 
Mr C ended up having the treatment he needed  in the NHS hospital. It has since become 
apparent that AXA would have covered his admission to a private  hospital,  but as Ive said, 
based on the information given to AXA at the time,  I dont think  it was wrong  to refuse  
authorisation. The policy pays a cash benefit  for NHS treatment when AXA would have 
covered it, and Mr C has now received this payment. 
Later, Mr C asked  AXA if it would transfer  him to the private  wing of the NHS hospital for 
physio, and rest/recovery. AXA said this wasnt covered.  Mr C then pointed out that 
rehabilitation was covered under the policy. AXA said it would need a detailed  report  before 
it would  authorise  this. 
Its apparent from listening to the calls that Mr C was getting very frustrated with AXA. But it 
is correct that in-patient physio isnt covered by the policy, and nor is rest or 
recovery/convalescence. It wasnt clear that Mr C needed rehabilitation to aid his recovery  
for medical  reasons, so I can understand why AXA didnt  offer this to Mr C. However,  when 
Mr C mentioned it, AXA confirmed it would need a medical report so it could consider his 
claim for this. I think this was reasonable.
After reviewing the medical  report,  AXA didnt accept Mr Cs claim for rehabilitation. Thats 
because it didnt think Mr C would require  active  medical  treatment, as required by the 
policy. Ive read the report written  by Mr H, a consultant orthopaedic surgeon, and I dont 
agree with AXA here. Mr H listed the number of fractures Mr C had suffered and said that he 
would benefit  from rehabilitation so that he could  mobilise safely  with crutches. Mr H noted 
that Mr C lived alone. AXA thought  this indicated Mr C needed rehabilitation for 
social/domestic reasons,  which isnt covered  by the policy. I disagree. Social/domestic  
reasons might include help with washing, dressing and cooking etc, but Mr C needed 
rehabilitation so that he could learn to move safely with crutches.  I expect Mr H simply added 
that Mr C lived alone to make it clear  that he wouldnt have anyone  to help him at home  if he 
wasnt able to mobilise safely. 
Later that day AXA called Mr C to say that it could potentially cover rehabilitation, but it would 
need him to have an assessment with a recognised rehabilitation  specialist before it would 
make a decision about this. Ive looked at the policy and whilst I see rehabilitation treatment is 
only covered if its overseen by a recognised rehabilitation specialist, it doesnt say the need  
for that treatment has to be decided by a recognised rehabilitation specialist. I think  Mr H was 
entirely qualified  to recommend that Mr C have rehabilitation treatment, and if AXA wanted 
further confirmation of the reasons for this, it could have  contacted Mr H directly. 
Ref: DRN54429443AXA gave Mr C the names of two recognised  hospitals, and two recognised rehabilitation 
specialists that worked  out of his nearest hospital. Mr C called AXA back later on to say 
those specialists didnt  work there. He thought AXA had made up the names. AXA confirmed 
that wasnt the case and provided  him with the name of another  specialist (Mr D), who Mr C 
then saw. AXA has explained it relies on specialists to tell it if they no longer work out of a 
particular hospital.  I think this explanation is reasonable. Given the number of specialists 
AXA recognises, it wouldnt be practical to expect AXA to take responsibility for keeping  up-
to-date with where they all work. After receiving Mr Ds report, AXA accepted the 
rehabilitation claim. 
Overall, I dont  think AXA handled this claim as well as it should  have.  It gave Mr C 
conflicting information about making  a claim at the outset. Mr C had just come out of 
intensive care and was in another  country,  so I think this probably had more of an impact on 
him than it would have  done otherwise. 
Also, I think AXA should have  accepted Mr Cs claim for rehabilitation benefit after it 
reviewed the report from Mr H on 3 November. Instead it accepted  the claim after reviewing 
Mr Ds report on 9 November. Thats only a delay of six days,  but I think  AXA did cause Mr C 
unnecessary inconvenience by requiring him to see Mr D for an assessment when I dont 
think he needed to.  
In deciding appropriate compensation, I need to consider what would have happened if 
AXAs error hadnt happened. I see that once  AXA accepted the rehabilitation claim, there  
was a delay before Mr C could be admitted  to the private hospital for this rehabilitation. That 
was due to a lack of beds at that hospital, which I cant hold AXA responsible for. Once Mr C 
was admitted to the private  hospital,  he received the full 28 days  rehabilitation benefit  that 
was allowed under the policy. 
If AXA had accepted Mr Cs claim on 3 November, there may have been an available bed at 
that time,  but equally there may not. So I cant say with any certainty  that Mr C would have  
received rehabilitation treatment any earlier. That being the case,  I think  a modest amount of 
compensation would be appropriate to reflect the inconvenience AXA caused Mr C.
I intend to require AXA to pay Mr C £350 compensation for its errors.   
Mr C is unhappy that there was only one AXA recognised rehabilitation centre  in his local 
area. Its up to AXA which  hospitals it recognises. However, I would expect an insurer  to be 
able to arrange for treatment to take place within approximately  50 miles of an insureds 
home address. I see that AXA has done  that here. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
AXA didnt agree that Mr C should receive compensation. It made the following points:
the first two calls were  only four days apart and the advice given  in the first call didnt  
appear to delay Mr Cs repatriation back to the UK. 
it says the report from Mr H didnt give a medical reason for rehabilitation treatment. 
AXA maintains  that it was correct to decline the claim  for rehabilitation at that point since  
there wasnt  enough detail in Mr Hs report to make  the claim eligible. AXA thinks  it was 
correct to request a report from a rehabilitation specialist to review  its decision as the 
policy confirms  rehabilitation cover  is available if a specialist in rehabilitation is 
Ref: DRN54429444overseeing your treatment. It says Mr D was best placed to decide if rehabilitation was 
required and would  need to oversee it. 
there was no bed available  at the particular hospital Mr C wanted to go to for 
rehabilitation and so even if it had agreed  to fund the rehabilitation after receiving Mr Hs 
report, the transfer to a private hospital  wouldnt have been any quicker.  
Mr C responded to say he was still waiting for compensation that matches the psychological 
trauma inflicted on him by AXA. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
expressed in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
AXA says the first two calls were only four days apart and the advice given in the first call 
didnt appear to delay Mr Cs repatriation to the UK. 
That may well be the case, but as I pointed out in my provisional  decision, Mr C had just 
come out of intensive  care and was in another country. I think the conflicting information  he 
was given would have caused  unnecessary confusion to him at a vulnerable  time. 
AXA says the report from Mr H didnt  give a medical  reason  for rehabilitation treatment,  and 
it thinks it was right to request a report from a rehabilitation specialist. 
Mr H is a consultant  orthopaedic surgeon and is qualified to decide  whether or not his 
patients need rehabilitation. Although the policy requires a specialist in rehabilitation to 
oversee the treatment, a rehabilitation specialist doesnt need to recommend the treatment. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  if AXA wanted more  information about the reasons for 
Mr C needing rehabilitation, it could have  asked Mr H for this rather  than send Mr C to have 
an assessment with Mr D. 
AXA says even if it had accepted Mr Cs claim for rehabilitation after receiving  Mr Hs report 
there were no beds available at the hospital, therefore the transfer wouldnt have been any 
quicker. However, Ive already addressed this point  in my provisional decision. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that Mr C was caused unnecessary inconvenience by AXA 
and it should pay him £350 to recognise  this. Although Mr C apparently doesnt agree with 
this level of compensation, he hasnt said why. I therefore see no reason to increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to 
pay Mr C £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5442944