K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 2001 and amended in 2006. Mr C says Leek United Building Society mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI, Leek had to make it clear to Mr C that he had a choice about taking it. 
But Mr C says he thought  he had to have it if he wanted the mortgage.
Leeks sent us a copy  of Mr Cs signed mortgage  application form from 2001. This included a 
section on PPI with boxes to be ticked if Mr C wanted to take it out and depending on the 
type of cover  he wanted. And theres  a tick in the box for Accident & Sickness only cover.  If 
Mr C didnt want to take PPI I think he could have left the boxes blank. And Mr C neednt  
have signed the application  form if he didnt agree with what it said.
Further, I can see that Mr C signed a separate application form for PPI in 2006, including 
details of the type of cover to be added  and the increased monthly  benefit  amount.
So, while I cant be certain about what happened, I think  Leek  did make it clear  to Mr C that 
he had a choice  about the PPI. And that Mr C chose to take it on both occasions,  knowing 
he didnt have to.
I dont believe Leek  made a personal recommendation to Mr C that he should  take PPI. This 
means Leek didnt have to check  if the PPI was right for Mr C. But it did have to make sure 
he got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Leek gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances in 2001  and 2006,  it doesnt look 
like he would  have been affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI cover. His 
representatives argued he was effectively a self-employed director  of his family business  
which would have limited  his ability to claim on the policy and negated  the need for such 
cover as the business  would have continued  to generate an income  for him even if he was 
off work due to accident or sickness.  
While I can see that Mr C appeared to have  been working in his family  business when the 
PPI was amended  in 2006, the mortgage application form from 2001 indicates he was 
employed elsewhere. And I think the PPI would have  been useful to him then, in addition  to 
any enhanced  sick pay he might have been entitled  to at that time. Regarding Mr Cs 
circumstances in 2006, I havent seen  any evidence to show his family business could have 
continued in his absence without leading to any material loss of income to him. And I havent  
seen anything in the policy terms to suggest  hed have been  treated as self-employed  for the 
purposes of any claims he might have made. 
Ref: DRN55276452In addition, Im mindful that Mr C would probably have valued the extra  security  the PPI 
provided him with considering the potential consequences of him failing to meet  repayments  
on borrowing secured  against his home.
It also looks like the monthly  premiums  at around £7 initially and £11 from 2006  were  
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr C off taking it 
out.
Which means Leek doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Leek will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Leek got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr C about  that. Because Leek didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Leek has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Leek has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. Leek should also pay back  to Mr C any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Leek should pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Leek should  also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leek  United Building Society doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Leek United Building Society  does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527645