K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Beals  Mortgage  and Financial Services  Ltd (Beals), an 
Appointed Representative of Quilter  Financial Services Ltd failed to arrange a meeting to 
review their investments. They say this failure  contributed to a significant financial loss. 
They also complain that Beals took on-going advice fees despite  failing to provide regular 
reviews.
background
Mr and Mrs H became  clients  of Beals  when  their previous adviser retired and sold his 
business to Beals in late 2016.
In March 2017, Mr and Mrs H met an adviser  from Beals. The adviser  sent Mr and Mrs H a 
letter after this meeting. The letter said the next review meeting would be due in 
October 2017.
Unfortunately their adviser  left Beals in August 2017. Their  account was then passed  to 
another adviser. The new adviser did not contact Mr and Mrs H to let them  know  about the 
change. 
In the summer  of 2017 Mr H withdrew  around  £138,000 from his ISA in a series of 
withdrawals. It appears Mr H dealt directly with his ISA provider and did not seek any help 
from Beals with these withdrawals.
On 2 October 2017 Mr H contacted Beals and was directed to his new adviser. On 3 October  
Mr H messaged  the new adviser. He said: 
'Further to our conversation yesterday I would be grateful if you could find out if there is any 
way a £45k payment from my SIPP account  could  be cashed quickly, like within  a week,  and 
if not what the earliest date could be.' Mr H also asked for advice.
The adviser responded promptly to say that it would probably take three to four weeks  for 
the payment from the SIPP to be processed. 
Mr H confirmed that he wanted to go ahead and asked what he needed to do to start the 
withdrawal process. 
On 9 October 2017 the adviser emailed Mr H the necessary  form. She also explained  that 
the withdrawal had not been advised and said: 
Should you wish to take advice from myself or Beals we can schedule a time to meet to 
complete any pension withdrawals.
Mr H says he had already obtained  the necessary form from his SIPP provider, as he 
wanted the money as quickly as possible.
Mr H then asked the adviser for guidance on the process by email on 9 October 2017, and 
again by text message on 12 October 2017. I understand the adviser  did not respond 
promptly to these requests. It appears from a later message that they did discuss the matter 
on 23 October 2017. A lump sum of £45,000 was paid to Mr H in late October 2017 by his 
SIPP provider. 
Ref: DRN59739402Mr H has told this service  that he had fallen victim  to an organised criminal scam from June 
2016. Between mid 2016 and late 2017 Mr H was persuaded to pay large  sums  of money to 
a third party. It appears that Mrs H was unaware  of the situation  until November 2017 when 
Mr H told her what had happened as he wanted  to encash a jointly-held  investment bond to 
fund a further payment. The police were then informed  and the scam came  to an end.
In early 2018 Mrs H contacted Beals.  The adviser apologised for not arranging a review 
meeting in October 2017. She initially said that her colleagues had noted that she had 
spoken to Mr H in October  2017  and had assumed that a meeting was not required. She 
subsequently also said that Mr H had declined a review,  and that Beals' system indicated  the 
next review was due in March 2018.
Mrs H said she felt that if a review meeting had taken place in October  2017,  she would 
have become aware of the scam earlier and Mr H would not have paid the money from his 
SIPP to the third party.
Mrs H also queried the fees Beals had received for ongoing  advice. There was some  
confusion over whether  charges had been deducted from the pensions Mr and Mrs H held, 
and the total amount. 
The matter  was dealt  with as a complaint by the business from mid March 2018.  It said it 
didnt think it was responsible for Mr Hs decision  to encash his investments. It also 
explained that Mr and Mrs Hs adviser  at Beals  had been in the process  of contacting  her 
new clients. It said it thought she would have contacted them to arrange a review in 
October 2017 if Mr H had not contacted  her first. 
It also noted that in March  2017  Beals had confirmed, in writing,  that its ongoing charges 
would be 0.3% of the value of Mr and Mrs Hs investments and pensions.
Mr and Mrs H were not satisfied with the response  from the business and referred the matter 
to this service.
Our adjudicator said he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He noted that Mrs H felt that if a review meeting had been arranged in advance,  for 
October 2017, it might have prompted  Mr H to discuss the very difficult  situation  he was in 
with her. Had Mr H done so, Mrs H said she felt she would have been able to stop Mr H from 
paying the money from his SIPP to the third party.
Our adjudicator explained that there was no requirement on Beals  to schedule review 
meetings many weeks, or months in advance.  
He also noted  that it appeared the adviser  had offered a review meeting when she spoke to 
Mr H in October 2017 about the withdrawal from his SIPP, but this offer was declined.
He said he didnt think Beals could reasonably be held responsible for Mr H choosing to pay 
the money he withdrew from his SIPP to the third party. He explained that, in order  to find 
Beals even  partly responsible for Mr Hs loss, he would need to be satisfied that a 
reasonable person would have recognised that the failure to arrange a review meeting could 
result in Mr H falling victim to fraud. 
Ref: DRN59739403He said he didnt think the adviser  could  reasonably  have foreseen that by not scheduling a 
review meeting this might  cause Mr H to fall (further)  victim to a rather  unusual form of fraud.  
He also said that he couldnt be certain that Beals would have known that Mr H had made  a 
number of withdrawals  from his ISA. He noted  that copies of the contract notes were held in 
an on line document vault by the ISA provider, but that it had not specifically notified Beals 
of the withdrawals. 
Our adjudicator also considered the fees that had been received by Beals.  He said that, 
based on the information he had seen, he was satisfied that the payments Beals had 
received were in-line with the letter it sent to Mr and Mrs H dated 28 March 2017. This letter  
set out that ongoing charges of 0.3%  would  be taken from their investment and pension  
plans.
He said he didnt agree  that Beals  should refund the fees it had received. He said that he 
was of the view that the adviser had offered  to review Mr and Mrs Hs investments when she 
spoke to Mr H in October 2017 about  the withdrawal from his SIPP. And he thought that 
given Mr H had not told Mrs H about  the difficulties  he was facing it was likely Mr H had 
declined this offer. 
He noted that the adviser had also offered  to review Mr and Mrs Hs investments in early 
2018 when Mrs H contacted her. As this was he case, he said he felt Beals was entitled to 
receive the ongoing advice fees. He also took into account that the adviser  offered  to cancel 
the ongoing service  charges and the charges were cancelled from March  2018. 
Mr and Mrs H did not accept out adjudicators view. Mrs H reiterated her view that had the 
review meeting been set up for October  (i.e. was actually arranged and imminent)  as 
proposed in [name of previous advisers] letter, it would have brought the scam  to an end 
before Nov 10, 2017 when[Mr H] finally told me what was happening.
Mrs H said Mr H did not recall being  offered a review meeting  when he discussed his SIPP  
withdrawal in October 2017. She said she felt that if a review  meeting had been arranged in 
advance the adviser  would  presumably have  had to brief herself on the state of play with 
regard to our accounts. This should  at least have raised a query as well as our many losses  
becoming evident to me during the review  meeting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  view as our adjudicator  and for much  the same  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Hs situation. It is clear from the information they have 
provided that they have been through a very difficult and upsetting experience.  But in order  
to uphold their complaint  I would need  to be satisfied that Beals acted  incorrectly,  or did 
something wrong. 
Having very carefully  considered all that has been said and provided  I appreciate  that it 
would have been helpful if their adviser  had arranged  a review meeting in advance for 
Ref: DRN59739404October 2017. But I cant reasonably say that there  was any requirement  on the adviser  to 
do so. 
The adviser spoke  to Mr H in early October  2017 about the withdrawal he wanted to make 
from his SIPP. Then,  on 9 October 2017  she emailed the necessary form to Mr H. In this 
email she explained  that the withdrawal had not been advised and said:  
Should you wish to take advice from myself or Beals we can schedule a time to meet to 
complete any pension withdrawals.
Mr H responded to this email and said; I do understand that this is a non-advised process, 
and I take responsibility  for it.
I must therefore take into account that the adviser did offer Mr H the opportunity  to talk 
through the withdrawal before he went ahead with it. Mr H then confirmed that he was 
proceeding without advice.  I think  if Mr H had taken  up the offer of advice on his SIPP  
withdrawal it is likely the adviser would also have suggested reviewing  both Mr and Mrs Hs 
investments at the same meeting. 
I am also mindful that the adviser says she did offer to review their investments when she 
spoke to Mr H in October 2017, but he declined the offer. Given  the very stressful situation 
Mr H was dealing with at the time I wouldnt expect him to recall whether a review  meeting 
was offered. And, as Mr and Mrs H have acknowledged, it is very unlikely that Mr H would 
have accepted any such offer as he was still trying  to resolve the situation  he was in without 
telling Mrs H what had happened.
I havent seen  anything to show that the adviser  was aware, or should have been aware, of 
anything that would  have led her to think that Mr H had fallen victim to a fraud and was being  
pressured to withdraw  money from his investments. And I cant  reasonably  say that the lack 
of a scheduled review  meeting in October 2017  led to Mr H withdrawing the money  from his 
SIPP and passing  it to a third party.
I have also considered whether the business should  refund  some  or all of the on-going 
advice fees it received.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H feel the fees should be refunded as a 
review meeting wasnt held. As our adjudicator explained, advisers  can't compel their clients 
to attend review meetings. The ongoing  advice fee is charged regardless of whether a client  
takes advantage of the service. 
As I set out above, I think it is more likely than not that the adviser  did offer to carry out a full 
review in October 2017. I note that the adviser  also offered to carry out a review in early  
2018 when Mrs H contacted her. And from March 2018 no ongoing fee was taken. I dont  
think it would  be fair to ask the business to refund  all or part of the fees it received for 
providing on-going  reviews as I am satisfied that this service was offered.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr and Mrs H were  hoping for. But in order to 
uphold their complaint  I would need to be satisfied that the adviser could reasonably  have 
been expected to foresee  that not setting  up a review meeting in advance  of October 2017 
would lead to the losses Mr H suffered. And that, but for the failure to arrange  a meeting in 
advance, Mr H would not have passed the money  from his SIPP  to the third party.  
I dont think it is fair or reasonable  to say the adviser could have been expected to foresee 
this. Nor am I satisfied that, if a meeting  had been arranged, it would have gone ahead. It 
appears that Mr H had been  concealing  the difficulty he was in from Mrs H. In the 
Ref: DRN59739405circumstances it seems  likely Mr H would have sought to re-schedule  or cancel the meeting 
if he thought it might  alert Mrs H to the problems he was facing.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Suzannah Stuart 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5973940