K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about the poor performance  of an endowment policy  that an adviser  from 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK limited suggest that he take out to repay his mortgage. Mr I also 
says that the term of his mortgage should have been 25 years rather  than 30 years. Mr I 
wants Aviva  to reduce  the term to 25 years  and compensate him for the shortfall due to 
advising him to take out an endowment rather than repayment mortgage.
background
In 1996, Mr I was borrowing money  to purchase, along with others, new premises. Mr Is 
share was £100,000. The loan was on an interest-only basis and to be repaid partly through 
the tax-free lump  sum on his pension and the intention was to raise the rest (75%)  from the 
proceeds of a Norwich  Savings Plan. This plan would cost Mr I £78 per month and to last for 
30 years.  Mr I opted for his investments to be 50% with profits  and 50% managed  fund. Mr I 
now is coming up to the time he can take his pension  and his tax free lump sum payment but 
the mortgage is to last for several  more years and the savings plan isnt likely to pay off 75% 
of the loan.
Our adjudicators view was that Mr I should have been aware of the risks of the savings plan 
and that it was to last for 30 years. She didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr I disagreed  saying in summary that it was unfair that his colleagues who opted  for 
a repayment loan would pay off their loan long before  he would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is difficulty  is that the repayment vehicle for the interest-only loan will not be sufficient to 
pay off the mortgage.  If Mr I had opted  for a capital repayment loan like his some of his 
colleagues, he would be closer to repaying  it than he is. Mr I made  the decision to go with an 
interest-only mortgage in 1996 rather than a repayment mortgage. According  to the 
suitability letter dated 16 January 1996  the adviser records  You  (Mr I) have decided  upon 
the interest only method because it enables you to maximise the tax relief on the loan 
interest. So, it would appear that it was Mr Is choice to take this business  loan on the 
interest-only basis as a more tax efficient  method of borrowing than capital  repayment.  
Along with the loan Mr I also took a savings  plan. Unfortunately  this hasnt delivered the 
returns that Mr I hoped. I note that the prospective returns on the Key Features document 
suggest that Mr I might  get back £75,000 after 30 years if his investments grow at 7.5% per 
year. This hasnt  happened. Aviva say that the growth rates included in the illustration were 
dictated by our regulator and used by all insurance companies for their illustrations.  They  
were based  on investment performance  at the time which was relatively  good,  and expected 
future returns. The document also notes  that the illustrations are only  examples and not 
guaranteed. The returns on the Savings Plan have fallen below the rates  set out in the 
illustrations and for the reasons set out in Avivas letter to Mr I of 25 April 2018. But simply 
because the returns  dont meet expectations doesnt mean that the illustration was 
misleading. Aviva has given a reasonable explanation of why the illustration appeared as it 
did and I cant say that this was intended  to mislead  Mr I.
Ref: DRN59836442There is separately the issue of why the loan was set up for 30 years. It looks to me that the 
terms was to coincide with when it was expected - according to the Key Features document  - 
that the Savings Plan would provide a £75,000  return. According to the Key Features, if 
Mr Is investments grew at 7.5% a year he would  get back £75,000 after 30 years. This 
doesnt appear now to be likely. But it seems to me that the actual term of the loan is not 
causing Mr I difficulties. Mr I can shorten the term if he can pay it off. The problem is that the 
Savings Plan alone wont now allow him to do that. The eventual value of the plan depended  
on the performance of the investments and Aviva gave no guarantee that the investment 
performance would match what was set out in the Key Features document.  For the above  
reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5983644