K820x#14complaint
Mr J complained that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
background 
RSA cancelled his policy because when Mr J took it out, he didnt  disclose a previous 
insurance claim. RSA said that if he had, they wouldnt have insured him at all. 
Mr J was unhappy with how RSA handled his claim and their cancellation of his policy.  RSA 
apologised to Mr J for not following their normal  claim  process,  and gave him £100  
compensation for that, but they maintained that theyd  been right to cancel  the policy. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She felt that RSA 
hadnt acted unfairly.  Mr J didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr J had a car accident  and claimed  for his cars repair, RSA discovered that hed had 
a previous claim that he hadnt disclosed when he took out their policy. They  said that if 
theyd known about that, they wouldnt have insured him. So they cancelled the policy. This 
would normally mean that RSA didnt need  to repair his car, but by the time RSA found out 
about the previous claim, theyd already  repaired  it. So they didnt  treat the policy  as void 
(treat it as if it had never existed) but instead cancelled it from a date after the repairs.
RSA explained  that normally they would put a repair claim on hold until they checked  policy  
and insurance  record  details. But in Mr Js case they didnt do that. They had his car 
repaired by their approved garage  and gave him a courtesy car. When  they discovered the 
previous claim, they told the garage,  but not Mr J. So he heard it first from the garage.  RSA 
paid him £100  compensation  for not calling him to tell him that theyd put his claim on hold, 
not having a car for 4 days and not calling him before  sending  the cancellation  letter. But that 
was only because they hadnt  followed their own processes as they should.  They  felt they 
were right to cancel his policy. And, if they had followed their normal process, they wouldnt  
have repaired his car. 
RSA have shown  us underwriter information  which confirms  that if Mr J had told them about 
the previous claim  they wouldnt have insured him at all. And Im satisfied that, as the 
investigator explained to Mr J, RSA have shown that they asked Mr J a clear  question about 
previous claims,  and that he didnt answer it as he should. 
The Consumer Insurance ( Disclosure  and Representations  Act 2012 (CIDRA) says that 
when someone  buys  an insurance policy they must  take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation and I think  that this was a qualifying misrepresentation for CIDRA.  Mr J 
said it had been  an innocent mistake and he thought that RSA should have checked for 
previous claims when he took out the policy. But theres no requirement for insurers  to check  
these matters at the start so its not unreasonable if they didnt. They  are entitled to rely on 
the information applicants give them, and the onus was on Mr J to check that all the details 
were correct.
Ref: DRN53268712RSA were willing to accept that Mr Js misrepresentation was careless rather  then reckless  
or deliberate. Under CIDRA,  where  theres been  a careless misrepresentation an insurer  can 
void the policy and normally repay  the premiums. So RSA was entitled  to avoid Mr Js policy 
from the start, decline his claim  and refuse  to repair  his car. In that case  hed have had to 
pay for his cars repairs himself. But because RSA had already dealt with his claim, and had 
fixed his car, they instead cancelled the policy  and retained his premiums.  I think that was 
reasonable because theyve shown  us that his cars  repair  costs  were much more  than the 
premiums Mr J paid,  so Mr J benefitted  from that.  
Mr J felt that RSA should have declared  his policy void instead of cancelling it. He was 
unhappy that he had a cancellation on his insurance record which  he would have to disclose 
in future  insurance  applications. He felt that if RSA had voided his policy he would be able to 
act as if his policy with RSA had never existed and so he wouldnt have to disclose the 
voidance in future. But, as the investigator  explained, thats not correct. Its usual for 
insurance policy applications to ask for disclosure of cancelations  and voidances  too, as 
both affect an insurers  view of risk. And so even if RSA had voided rather  than cancelled Mr 
Js policy, that would still be disclosable in future insurance applications. 
I can see that Mr J is upset at RSAs actions, but I think that RSA have been fair in that they 
have compensated  him for not following their normal process in some respects, and I think  
£100 for that is adequate.  Ultimately I think that RSA were  entitled to cancel his policy as 
they did rather than declare  it void, and he has benefited by getting  his car repaired when 
RSA didnt have  to do that. So I dont  think that RSA have done anything wrong, and theyve 
been fair and reasonable and I dont require them to do anything  else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5326871