K822xcomplaint
Mrs A, represented by her husband (Mr A), is unhappy that FirstRand  Bank Limited trading 
as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo)  continued  to charge her for life cover after shed  raised a 
complaint about  it.
background
I issued my provisional decision in November 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was intending to
uphold Mrs As complaint.  I asked  everyone  to send  me any further comments and
information before I reached a final decision.
Both Mr A, on behalf of Mrs A, and Motonovo responded to my provisional decision and 
accepted my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As both parties  have accepted my provisional findings, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs As 
complaint.
To put things right, FirstRand Bank Limited  trading as Motonovo  Finance should:
refund  Mrs A the premiums she paid for the life cover from April 2018 until the point 
at which  the policy  was cancelled; and
pay interest on the refunded premiums at the rate of 8% (simple) per year; and
pay Mrs A compensation  of £50 in recognition of her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56015532copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs A, represented by her husband (Mr A), is unhappy that FirstRand Bank Limited trading  as 
Motonovo Finance  (Motonovo) continued to charge her for life cover after shed raised a complaint 
about it.
background
In 2016, Mrs A purchased  a car under a hire purchase agreement.  The finance included payment  
protection insurance and life cover.
In April of last year,  Mr A brought a complaint to our service about  the life cover attached  to Mrs As 
hire purchase agreement. The complaint  was about Motonovos decision  to continue charging Mrs A 
for the cover, despite their request that it be cancelled.  
At the time, our investigator didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.  In her assessment letter  she 
explained that while she could see that Mr A had requested cancellation of the accident and 
unemployment cover,  she was satisfied that Mr A had specifically requested that the life cover remain 
in place.
Following the original complaint, Mr A raised a second complaint with Motonovo in April of this year.  
As part of his complaint,  he explained that he was unhappy that Mrs A was being still being charged 
for the life cover.
In response to this complaint, Motonovo said that they didnt cancel the life cover,  as this wasnt 
something Mr A, Mrs A or our service had expressly  asked them to do. They did, however, confirm  the 
policy was cancelled with effect April 2019.
Unhappy with Motonovos response to their second complaint, Mrs A brought another  complaint to 
our service. Mrs A says Motonovo ought to have cancelled the life cover after her initial complaint 
about the policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that at some stage following  the sale, Mrs A no longer  wanted life cover in place. I 
say this because a complaint has been previously raised  directly with Motonovo and our service about  
the fact that she was paying  for a policy which she says she thought  shed cancelled. The issue I 
need to decide is whether  I think  Motonovo ought to have cancelled the life cover  sooner than it did  
in April 2019.
Having reviewed  the information provided, I do think Motonovo should  have  cancelled the policy  
before April 2019. I think its clear that Mrs A was unhappy about  the fact that she was paying for 
something in addition to the loan for the vehicle, at the point at which  Motonovo issued their final 
response in April 2018.  So, I think it would  have been both fair and reasonable  for Motonovo to have 
cancelled the life cover, or at least offered  to cancel  the cover, at same time they addressed Mrs As 
initial complaint. 
Had Motonovo cancelled the life cover in April 2018, I think this would have  resolved Mrs As 
complaint. I also think that had Motonovo given Mrs A the option of cancelling the life cover in April 
Ref: DRN560155332018, I think  its more  likely than not that she would  have  agreed  to it. So, I do think that Mrs A has 
lost out because  of what Motonovo  did wrong.
While I appreciate that our service has previously addressed Mrs As complaint about  whether  or not 
shed had expressly  asked Motonovo  to cancel  the life cover, I cannot  ignore that this case is about 
Motonovos decision  to continue  charging  Mrs A for the life cover after shed complained about  the 
additional cost.
Ive also thought  about  whether Motonovo should pay Mrs A some compensation  for the fact that they 
didnt cancel her policy, following a complaint  being raised about it. I think in this case, Motonovos 
failure to cancel the policy  sooner than it did resulted  in the additional inconvenience  of Mrs A having 
to raise a further complaint. I think that compensation of £50 would be fair in this instance.
my provisional  decision
I currently uphold this complaint.
To put things right, FirstRand Bank Limited  trading  as Motonovo Finance should:
refund Mrs A the premiums she paid for the life cover from April 2018 until the point at which 
the policy  was cancelled; and
pay interest on the refunded premiums at the rate of 8% (simple) per year; and
pay Mrs A compensation of £50 in recognition of her trouble and upset.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5601553