K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance  Limited handled her insurance claim.
background
Mrs B holds a homecare policy with British Gas. She made  a claim under the policy  on 
4 August 2018  when it appeared that a leak was coming from nearby the toilet  in her 
bathroom. It wasnt clear where exactly the leak was coming from as the toilet and pipework 
were not visible, but it had caused  the surrounding carpet to become wet.
British Gas arranged  for an engineer to attend on the same  day, but they were unable  to 
isolate the leak or carry out any repairs. The engineer told Mrs B that a further  inspection  
would be required and that an inspection hatch may need to be created in order  to access  
the pipework.  Mrs B says she was told to monitor the leak,  but no further action  was taken at 
this point. 
Mrs B chased British Gas for an appointment, and they referred the matter to their appointed 
contractors. A follow up visit was arranged to take place on 6 August 2018. But this 
appointment was subsequently cancelled, as were  the next three rescheduled appointments. 
A repair was eventually attempted on 17 August 2018  some 13 days  after Mrs B had 
initially reported the incident  but it proved unsuccessful and resulted in another  leak and 
further damage being caused to the carpet.
Mrs B contacted British  Gas again  on the same day and an emergency engineer was sent to 
rectify the problem. The engineer identified that the pan pipe was leaking, but he didnt  have 
the necessary  equipment to be able to repair it there  and then, so he isolated  the toilet  to 
stop it from leaking any further. 
A further  visit was arranged on 20 August  2018, where the attending engineer told Mrs B 
that hed need to cut an inspection hatch into the wall in order to complete the necessary 
works, but that it would  be neat, barely  visible and like a pencil line. But Mrs B was unhappy 
with the quality of workmanship  carried out by the engineer,  as she felt the hatch was not as 
it had been described, so she refused  to sign a disclaimer after the work  had been  
completed. Mr B was also unhappy that further  damage had been caused to the carpet and 
back panel of the wall due to the fact it had been  wet for so long. 
Mrs B had raised several  complaints with British Gas throughout this period in relation to the 
service shed received,  for which theyd already repaid the £50 excess that had been 
charged as a form of compensation.  But Mrs B subsequently raised a further complaint in 
relation to the quality of works that had been  carried out, as well as the water  damage that 
had been made worse  as a result of the delays experienced. Mrs B said she was told by 
British Gas to raise a complaint directly  with the contractors theyd appointed in relation to 
these issues. 
Mrs B contacted the contractors, who said they can offer [Mrs B] up to £500  which  would be 
[in] full and final settlement  of the issue . But after a few weeks of chasing,  Mrs B had not 
reached a resolution  with the contractors, so she took her concerns back to British Gas who 
told her that there was no offer of £500  open  for acceptance.
British Gas did not consider that they were liable for the water damage,  as they said this had 
already been caused by the initial  leak, so they offered a contributory  payment of £150 as a 
Ref: DRN55055332gesture of goodwill (as well as repaying  the £50 excess Mrs B had been  charged). But Mrs B 
was unhappy  with this offer, so the complaint was brought to our service. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought that the actions and omissions of 
British Gas and their contractors had most  likely exacerbated any existing  damage  caused 
by the initial  leak,  and she agreed that the quality of workmanship  in relation to the 
inspection hatch was poor. So the investigator recommended that British  Gas cover the cost 
of repairing  or replacing the carpet  and boxing/wall behind the toilet,  as well an additional  
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
British Gas disagreed  as they say they had not caused the leak, and that there is no 
specified time in which they would be required to locate and stop the leak.  So they didnt 
think they should be held liable for the resulting property damage.   As no agreement could 
be met, the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Mrs B submits that the actions and omissions of British Gas and their contractors have 
exacerbated the damage caused by the initial leak in her bathroom. She says that: 
The initial staining of the carpet was limited, but has now been made worse due to 
the leak not being addressed on the first visit, as well as the subsequent lack of 
response by the contractors.
The back  panel has been damaged from extended water  exposure,  which was not 
present at the initial visit and has resulted from the leak not being fixed  sooner. 
There is an unsightly inspection hatch, which she was told would  be almost invisible, 
but given the poor workmanship, she says that her bathroom now requires 
redecorating.
She has had to manage  the whole process herself and has spent a significant  
amount of time trying  to sort it out
The contractors initially offered her £500,  but they are now denying any knowledge of 
this
In considering whether British Gas should be held liable for the damage  sustained to Mrs Bs 
bathroom, Ive considered  whether  theyve  fulfilled their obligations as set out in the policy  
terms and conditions. And in terms of repairs, the policy sets out:
Well  carry out any repairs or visits youre  entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
The policy doesnt  define what would be considered as a reasonable amount of time in 
which to carry out repairs,  and British Gas say there  is no specified  time in which they would 
be required  to locate  and fix the leak. But in the circumstances,  I dont think it can be said 
that British Gas repaired the leak within a reasonable  timeframe as promised by the policy 
terms and conditions.
I say this because  it took around two weeks for the leak to be isolated  on no less than the 
sixth visit that had been scheduled for an engineer  to attend. In this time, three appointments 
Ref: DRN55055333were cancelled for reasons such as the engineer not having enough time to carry out the 
repair, to the job not being  deemed  an emergency, to the engineer being off sick. I dont 
think either of these reasons given for cancelling the appointments was something beyond  
British Gas control that made the visit impossible. And from what  Ive seen it does appear 
that the repair couldve been  carried out sooner, so I dont think it was carried  out within a 
reasonable timeframe  in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ive considered the likely impact the delayed repair had on Mrs Bs property, and I appreciate  
some damage may have  been caused by the initial leak,  although Mrs B says that this was 
limited to minimal staining  of the carpet. But by the time the leak was eventually  isolated, 
Mrs B says the staining had become much worse, and that the back  panel behind the toilet  
eventually showed  signs of damage that were not present when the leak initially occurred. 
Theres no record or report  of what damage  was already present when the first engineer 
attended. But given that no immediate action was taken  and given that British Gas has not 
arranged for any follow  up inspection or report  to be produced to the contrary   Im satisfied  
it was likely to have  been minimal as described by Mrs B. 
The leak also wasnt isolated  from the outset, and so it continued to cause further damage 
for almost another two weeks. So in the circumstances  and in the absence of any evidence 
to the contrary  I think its most likely  that the delay  in repairing the leak caused further 
damage to the property.  I appreciate that British Gas did not cause  the initial leak,  but I think 
the actions and omissions of their contractors have  exacerbated it. Indeed,  the notes 
submitted by British  Gas state that by the sixth visit: numerous visits have been attended 
for the same issue, job was attended  today and the leak has now gotten  a lot worse  and has 
caused a lot of property  damage and has caused a really bad smell.
I appreciate that a proportion of the damage  would have been caused  by the initial  leak.  But 
as Ive set out earlier, it appears that this was minimal, and wouldnt have required works to 
the extent that now need  to be carried out following the delays. As a result, I think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances for British Gas to cover the cost of rectifying the 
damage caused by the leak. This includes repairing or replacing the carpet,  as well as the 
back panel and any other aspects of the bathroom damaged by the leak.
Mrs B is also unhappy with the quality of the inspection  hatch that was cut into the wall in 
order to gain access to the pipes. She says she was told that it would be barely visible  and 
like a pencil  line, and would be useful for inspecting  any potential  leaks in the future, so she 
agreed to have it done. However, Mrs B was not satisfied with the work  completed and 
refused to sign a disclaimer once it had been cut into the wall.
It does seem that the hatch was necessary in order to gain access to the pipes and isolate  
the leak, so I think a hatch  wouldve likely been required in any event. But having seen 
photographs of the hatch,  I dont  think it was created as it was described by the Engineer,  so 
I think British Gas should repair the hatch  to a satisfactory standard,  or otherwise replace the 
panel into which it has been cut. Mrs B says that any repair  or replacement of the hatch will 
require her to repaint  the entire bathroom  to ensure  that the paint matches, and she thinks 
British Gas should also cover the cost of this. I appreciate that an inspection  hatch was 
always likely required in order to repair the leak. But if it had been created  in the way in 
which it was described   i.e. as barely visible  then I dont think it wouldve been necessary  
for Mrs B to have to repaint the entire bathroom.  But seeing as it wasnt created as it was 
described, and given that Ive said British Gas ought  to rectify the hatch or the panel into 
which its been cut, I think its fair that they also cover the cost of repainting  the bathroom so 
that Mrs B is not left with areas of mismatched paint.
Ref: DRN55055334British Gas have  asked Mrs B to provide  her with a selection of three different quotes for the 
remedial works that are now required. I agree that that Mrs B ought  to provide a quote  for 
the works  that need to be carried  out. But given that it was the actions and omissions of 
British Gas and their contractors that have led to these works being  required, I do not think 
its either fair or necessary to ask Mrs B to spend  time providing  more than one quote. If 
British Gas think that the costs put forwards by Mrs B are too high,  then theyre free to obtain 
their own quotes. But I will not be asking Mrs B to obtain three different quotes for each 
element of the remedial works  that are required.
compensation
British Gas has so far offered an amount of £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B, as well as reimbursing  the £50 excess she has paid. But 
Mrs B does not feel this is commensurate  to the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered. 
Mrs B says that British  Gas contractors offered her £500 privately in settlement of the 
matter, and Ive seen a text message  that was sent to her to that effect. However,  this offer 
was later denied. The circumstances  in which the offer was made are not clear, and neither 
is it clear whether the individual  who made  the offer had the authority to do so. But what is 
clear is that the offer has since  been  withdrawn, and I cant  see that it was ever accepted, so 
I dont think it would  be fair to ask British Gas to now honour  it, particularly  given that it was 
made without their knowledge.  
The investigator considered that British Gas should pay an additional £100 compensation on 
top of the amount theyd  offered already. Ive considered the impact the poor service  and 
delays have had on Mrs B to assess whether this is fair. I can see, for example, that Mrs B 
has had to take time off of work to be available for appointments that were regularly 
cancelled, and that shes spent a significant amount of time chasing the matter to 
conclusion. I can also see that shes been  provided  with conflicting information  along the 
way, with some engineers  advising her to turn the water off at the mains,  and others  advising 
her not too. There also appears to have been  instances of poor communication,  where both 
British Gas and their contractors have  failed to respond to Mrs Bs calls,  and I can see that 
this had left Mrs B confused as to who was responsible for which parts of the job.
Overall, I can see that these various  failings have caused Mrs B a considerable amount of 
distress and inconvenience, and I think an additional £100  on top of the £150 payment  and 
£50 waived excess  to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct British  Gas Insurance  
Limited to:
-cover  the reasonable costs of rectifying  the damage caused  by the leak, which 
includes repairing or replacing the carpet, as well as the back  panel and any other  
aspects of the bathroom damaged  by the leak;
-cover  the reasonable costs of repairing the inspection hatch to a satisfactory  
standard, or otherwise  cover  the cost of replacing the wall panel into which it has 
been cut;
Ref: DRN55055335-cover  the reasonable costs of repainting the bathroom;
-pay an additional £100 compensation on top of that already paid in recognition  of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
British Gas should ensure that invoices  for the above works are discharged as quickly  as 
possible within 28 calendar  days from the date of invoice. They  should  also pay the 
additional £100 compensation within 28 days of receiving Mrs Bs acceptance  of this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5505533