K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about damage caused  to his car as a result of the advice  given by 
Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limiteds  recovery agent.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again 
here in detail. Instead I will focus  on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mr H says the recovery  agent  told him it was alright to drive his car but doing  so 
caused more damage  to the engine. Admiral  says the recovery  agent  recorded that a 
full workshop diagnosis was recommended and recovery was offered. But Mr H 
declined recovery.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Admiral has established exactly  what 
tests the recovery agent did on the car including to determine  whether it was drivable 
or not. It also hasnt  shown on balance that the recovery agent told Mr H that the car 
was unsafe to drive, shouldnt be driven or that if it was, more  damage might be 
caused to it. And although Mr H signed to accept  the suggested fault it hasnt been  
established on balance  that he was fully aware  of what he was accepting  or the 
consequences of refusing recovery  and continuing to drive  the car.
Its clear that continuing to drive led to it needing to be recovered by another  
organisation and caused additional damage to the engine  which  required repair. I 
think these things  couldve  been  reasonably avoided if the recovery agent had more 
fully advised Mr H and if his car had been recovered. I note the second recovery 
organisation also didnt exactly identify the cars fault. But Im satisfied on balance  
that if Mr H had been more fully advised  by Admirals recovery  agent about the 
possibility of damaging his car if he continued  to drive it he wouldve more likely  
accepted recovery   by Admirals agent, than not. And if he had done so the car 
wouldve been taken  to a garage, a second recovery wouldnt have  been  needed and 
further engine  damage wouldve likely been avoided. 
Consequently I think on balance that the way the recovery agent handled matters 
has likely  contributed  to Mr H incurring further expenses in paying for recovery  by 
another organisation and some additional  engine damage that incurred more repair 
costs.
To put things right I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to reimburse  Mr H for 
the £150 call out cost of the other recovery organisation and to contribute  50% of the 
£2,034 engine repair costs. Mr H has provided  evidence of these amounts being paid 
and I also think Admiral  should  pay interest  on them from the date he paid them  until 
settlement. 
Ref: DRN54781132For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
and to put things right it should:
1.Reimburse £150 to Mr H for the cost of the second recovery plus pay simple  interest  
on this sum at the rate of 8% a year* from 17 December 2018 until the date of 
settlement; and 
2.Reimburse £1,017 to Mr H towards the cost of repairing his cars engine  plus pay 
simple interest on this sum at the rate of 8% a year* from 16 February 2019 until the 
date of settlement.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5478113