K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that HSBC Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O bought  a MPPI  policy which started in August 2002  to protect their 
repayments in relation  to a mortgage.  Mr O was covered only against  accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. The policy and mortgage ended before April 2008.
Mr and Mrs O believe  HSBC mis-sold the MPPI policy to them whilst they were arranging  
their mortgage. They  say they didnt know they had the MPPI added  at the time of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As the complainants  dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the MPPI  policy was presented to Mr and Mrs O. Ive looked at what  
they said about how the policy was sold  including that they were  unaware of it being  
added to their mortgage when  they met a representative from HSBC.
I think, after considering the documentation provided by HSBC and what  I know  of how it 
sold policies at that time in its branches, it is more likely than not to me that                    
Mr and Mrs O were advised  it was a good  idea to have the insurance to protect their 
repayments, and they took the insurance  on that advice by signing the documentation 
provided.
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have seen suggests 
to me that the policy was presented as optional. HSBC has provided screen shots of a 
personal financial planning review summarising recommendations that one of its 
advisors made. This shows me that a discussion would  have more  than likely  been had 
around the suitability  of having  a policy, rather than it be added  without Mr and Mrs Os 
knowledge.
I think HSBC recommended  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs O, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Mr O (as the sole policy holder) based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr O says he had 3 months sick pay and both he and Mrs O 
had other means. But the benefits provided by the policy would have  paid out in addition  
to this amount  in a difficult time. Mr and Mrs O didnt have enough provisions that I can 
see at the time of sale that would have  meant  they wouldnt  have had at least  some  use 
of the benefit offered by Mr O having  the cover. I can also see no other reasons such as 
a significant or restrictive term that would make  the policy  unsuitable.
Ref: DRN51067162I can see from the sales  documentation  that Mr and Mrs O were  clearly provided with the 
costs associated with the policy. It was reasonably  priced  compared to similar policies 
available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  repayment. And Mr and Mrs O could 
have cancelled the PPI if it did become unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs O were taking on a financial  commitment secured against their home. As 
such, I consider  that the policy  provided Mr O with a useful additional benefit (over  and 
above his employment benefits) for a reasonable cost to protect their home in the event 
that it was necessary  for Mr O to make  a claim. Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs O would 
have avoided protecting their repayments  given  the serious consequences of defaulting 
on a debt secured  against their home.
Its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr O wouldve been affected by any of these based  on his circumstances at the time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, but in conclusion  I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5106716