K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc refused his claim made  under  section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And he further  complains about  delays in the processing of his 
complaint. He wants the full cost of the faulty  items he purchased refunded  and 
compensation.
background
Mr P tells us he purchased three  power supply units from a retailer Ill refer to as A. He 
says the units were faulty and caused a fire resulting in damage to other items. Mr P says 
that A only refunded the cost of one of the units and didnt compensate  him for 
consequential losses. So he turned to Sainsburys.  He says there were significant  delays in 
processing his complaint.  And that its now been rejected.
Sainsburys said it had declined Mr Ps claim under section  75 as the invoice for the products 
was made  out to his company, which Ill call I Ltd. And not to Mr P. It said it recognised  
thered been delays  with the processing  of his claim and that it had paid £225 compensation 
to Mr P over this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that the goods 
had been paid for by using Mr Ps personal  credit card.  But the invoice for goods had been 
made out to Mr Ps company. She said that a limited company had a separate legal entity. 
And therefore the contract for the supply  of goods was between  A and I Ltd. She thought the 
£225 compensation paid by Sainsburys was fair. 
Mr P didnt accept this outcome. As its not been to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans  
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr P had such  a disturbing  experience with the fire following the purchase of 
these goods. And I understand why he feels so strongly about  the issues relating to this 
complaint.
Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding Sainsburys liability  under section 75 - only a 
court could do that. We take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But 
we decide cases  by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. 
What Im deciding is whether Sainsburys did enough in considering Mr Ps complaint. And if 
it didnt, what else it should now do.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. A misrepresentation is a false  statement  of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter into an agreement and suffer a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. 
In limited circumstances  an omission to provide  relevant  information  can also amount to a 
misrepresentation. A breach  of contract  might  occur if goods supplied  werent  of satisfactory  
quality. And thats  whats also been  alleged here.
Ref: DRN52632012As our investigator has stated a limited company is considered to be separate legal entity.  
And the invoice for the goods clearly shows the buyer of these goods was I Ltd. Any 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract in relation to these goods arose from a contract 
with I Ltd. And not Mr P. Only a party to a contract can enforce the terms. So any action for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  would  need  to be brought by I Ltd. 
I think it was fair for Sainsburys  to decide that even if there  had been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract it was not Mr P, personally,  who was a party  to the contract. And so it 
concluded, correctly  in my opinion, that he wasnt directly able to benefit from section 75 in 
relation to a claim  founded on that contract.
.
Im aware Mr P doesnt feel the level of compensation  thats  been  awarded for poor service 
is adequate. But the purpose  of compensation is not to punish a business. Taking the whole 
of the circumstances into account the probability  is that most  of the distress and 
inconvenience experienced  by Mr P was the result of the actions of A. Im only able to look 
at what part Sainsburys played in what happened.
In assessing the level of compensation its inevitable that some  loss of time and 
inconvenience will be experienced by anyone bringing a complaint. And Sainsburys has 
admitted it couldve handled things better.  Theres no exact  formula by which claims arising 
from poor customer service are calculated. And I think the sum offered is fair and 
reasonable. So I shant be asking Sainsburys to do anything else.  And Im not upholding the 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5263201