K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Societe Generale Equipment Finance  Ltd (SGEF) refused to let him 
reject a vehicle 
background
In August  2017  Mr L acquired a vehicle  for use in his business funded by a hire purchase 
agreement with SGEF. It was some  four years old and had done 43,114 miles. Mr L says he 
encountered a number of problems with the vehicle and two of these  remain unresolved. 
These are the heavy  smoking issue and an engine  malfunction light coming on frequently. 
Both parties  have provided a lot of detail, but I trust they will understand if I dont rehearse all 
of it here. Mr Ls complaint may have  developed  as time wore on, but the key issue is 
whether the vehicle was fit for purpose  at the point of sale.  Initially Mr L took up the faults 
with the dealer, but as these remained unresolved  he contacted SGEF in February  2018.
SGEF contacted the dealer and made independent enquiries. Having done so it concluded  
there was no basis for rejection. It didnt  consider  any of the issues  raised by Mr L were 
present when he had acquired the vehicle.  Mr L then brought  his complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
She noted that in an email sent to the dealer  on 29 August 2017 Mr L referred heavy 
smoking of the vehicle  and this was noted  by the supplier  in his response  on the same date. 
It was taken to the supplier which was located  some  distance from Mr L on 16 and 30 
September 2017 and latterly on 4 January 2018 to allow it to deal with the heavy smoking 
and engine malfunction light issues resolved. Mr L was also given  some  tips for diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) cleaning which helped temporarily, but the problem  wasn't fixed  
permanently.
He also took the car to an independent dealer who noted the problem, but it was also unable  
to effect repairs but without success. She said the MOT expired in August 2018 and Mr L 
was unable to obtain a new one due to the heavy emissions. She noted  Mr L had not done  a 
significant mileage  in the vehicle. SGEF  had supplied  pictures  from social media which  
suggested Mr L had continued to use the vehicle, but he denied  doing so.
She said Mr L had been complaining about the heavy smoking of the vehicle right from the 
beginning and it continued to suffer the same problem. She considered Mr L should be 
allowed to reject the vehicle. SGEF didnt agree.
It said that it hadnt seen the vehicle at the time of sale and relied on Mr L being  satisfied  it 
was in an acceptable condition. Mr L had queried  the validity of the MOT which  had been 
done at the time of purchase since he had been  given a copy of the emissions record which 
showed it had failed. SGEF said that the valid MOT  showed the car was not defective. It also 
said Mr L had denied  the dealer the opportunity to fix the issues in April 2018.
It said that due to his business the vehicle stood  idle for long periods. It also said that an 
email from the dealer  on 24 May 2018  confirmed all issues had been dealt with. It noted Mr L 
had not provided  independent evidence of the faults despite being asked for this by SGEF. 
The only reports came  December 2018 and January 2019 long after the vehicle had been  
bought. It then argued that as Mr L hadnt effected  the required repairs at this point he had 
Ref: DRN57981342broken the terms  of the agreement. It offered to take the vehicle back  and refund his rental 
payments from September 2018, but not the return of his deposit.
Mr L rebutted the points made  by SGEF  and so the matter has been referred to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
SGEF is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality. 
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory . 
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I believe the key issue for me to consider is whether the vehicle was suffering heavy 
emissions at the time of purchase and if so was this alleged fault repaired successfully. I 
appreciate there are other issues Mr L has raised along the way, but I dont believe they are 
central to the matter  at hand.
At the time Mr L acquired the vehicle he was keen  for it to be delivered in order  to use it in 
his business. He was given an estimated delivery  time of 5 to 10 days, but this proved to be 
optimistic. On 29 August  2017 the dealer wrote: We'd have liked to have had the vehicle  
longer to prepare it to our standards, sometimes preparation runs over the standard  5-10 
days, especially  when  paintwork is involved and when  a complicated diesel issue  occurs.
I think that this along with Mr Ls claims show that there was an issue with heavy smoking. 
Indeed the dealer provided  Mr L with fuel cleaner in an attempt  to fix the fault.  
The emissions record for the MOT  which the vehicle passed  shows that there were issues 
which should have  caused it to fail. SGEF  say they have spoken to the tester and he 
confirmed it failed the emissions test initially, but passed a second  one. Even  if that is the 
case I think it indicates there was an issue with the vehicles emissions at the time of sale.  
Ref: DRN57981343Overall I believe the evidence is sufficient to show that the vehicle had a problem with its 
emissions when Mr L acquired it.
More recent  independent  reports  show that there are still issues  with the emissions and so it 
is reasonable to conclude  that the problem hasnt been fixed. Therefore the evidence points 
to there  being a problem with the emissions  at the point of sale and that these have yet to be 
repaired satisfactorily. I consider that to be sufficient to allow  Mr L to reject the vehicle 
without the need to explore the other  issues he has raised.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Societe Generale Equipment  
Finance Ltd to:
end the agreement without any further payments to be made by Mr L,
collect the vehicle  at no further cost to Mr L
refund  his deposit with 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  until the date of 
settlement,
refund  the monthly instalments made  by Mr L from September  2018 onwards for loss 
of use,
make  a trouble  and upset payment of £100 for the inconvenience which Mr L had 
while trying  to get the vehicle repaired.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798134