K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly declined a 
claim under his motor  insurance policy following his involvement in an accident.
background
Mr A was involved  in a car accident  and made a claim against  his policy.  The accident 
details are that Mr A was driving, to a takeaway restaurant, at around  3am in the morning 
when he lost control of his car, in a residential  street, hitting a parked car, then going  on to 
collide with a wall. Mr A and his passenger then abandoned the car. Witnesses from the 
nearby houses  called the police who attended and recovered Mr As car.
Mr A reported accident to the police late on the evening  of the same day, more than 12 
hours after itd happened.
When considering  the claim, Calpe decided to appoint a claims  investigator  to look into 
matters further and interview  Mr A and other witnesses.
During its investigations it found information relating to Mr A, the policy and the claim which 
gave it cause for concern. This information  included but was not limited to:
Mr A said he worked as a security  guard when applying for his policy  but is registered 
as a director of a chauffeur company on companies  house
Mr As car was purchased on a finance agreement  and, in his application for the 
finance, he said he was a manager of a chauffeur company
Calpe  have said Mr A wouldnt be able to afford the finance  agreement for the vehicle 
if hes main income  was from the security job.
Mr A has said he only knows  the first name of his passenger who was in the car with 
him and is unable to provide any contact details  for him although  he has said they 
went to college together.
Mr A said he abandoned the car at the time of the accident as he had injuries and 
knew he needed to get help. He said that his nose was bleeding. The police said 
there were no traces of blood  in the car when it recovered it.
Mr A didnt  seek help but instead got a taxi home  and went  to bed.
Mr A said he was driving between 10 and 20 MPH and swerved to avoid an animal  in 
the road. Calpe  have  CCTV footage  of the accident and Mr A was driving at a speed 
considerably higher  than this and no animal can be seen in the recording. It showed  
this to Mr A and he agreed he was driving faster and said he didnt check  the 
speedometer.
Mr A said he took a wrong  turn on the way to the takeaway restaurant despite  having 
lived in the area for around 19 years.
Mr A said he didnt  report the accident as he had no battery  on his phone  and his 
passenger didnt have a phone. He said there were no witnesses and he doesnt 
remember speaking to anyone.
Calpe  has been in touch with Mr A s mobile phone provider and it has confirmed  that 
his phone was on, and in the area of the accident at the time.
There is CCTV footage of Mr A walking  away from the accident  using a phone. There  
is also CCTV showing witnesses stopping to help.
One witness who spoke to Mr A said he showed no sign of injury. But that he denied 
being the driver and asked him if he would be able to make  an injury claim if he was 
a passenger.
Ref: DRN53848202Other witnesses said that Mr A appeared to be unsteady on his feet and appeared to have 
been under  the influence of drink  or drugs when walking away from the car.
Mr A seemed to be interested in the claim settlement   asking if it would be settled directly 
with him instead  of the finance company.  On speaking to the finance company, Calpe 
Learned That Mr A had fallen behind with his monthly payments prior to the accident.
Mr A said that his father  had registered  him as a director of a company  without  his 
knowledge, he also said his father  had arranged  the finance on his car without his input. He 
acknowledged he wouldnt be able to afford  the car on his salary as a security  guard, and 
said his dad paid most  of the finance for him.
Calpe wasnt satisfied  with Mr As explanation of this, and he also wasnt  able to answer any 
of the other discrepancies  to Calpes  satisfaction. So, it declined  his claim. It did, however, 
deal with the two third party claims  - for the parked car and damaged wall - as it was 
required to under the Road Traffic Act (1988).  It has since let Mr A know  that it is looking to 
recover the costs of both claims from him.
Calpe has relied  on the following term in his policy when  declining Mr As claim:
If You or anyone acting on Your behalf
Makes any claim  or any part of any claim that is fraudulent, false or exaggerated or 
supported by any fraudulent device:
We or the Underwriters  may
Immediately cancel or avoid Your Policy  and/or  all other Policies  which You have  
with us from the date of the claim arising.
Refuse to pay the claim in its entirety.
Recover from you any costs incurred by the Underwriters.
Retain any premium paid by You.
Involve the relevant authorities in bringing  criminal proceedings
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained to Calpe. Calpe maintained its position and so 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint, he said that Calpe had acted  fairly  in 
declining Mr As claim and was entitled  to rely on the term it had quoted. He also said he 
thought it was fair for Calpe  to suspect that Mr A was providing  a taxi service  at the time of 
the accident, as he couldnt provide details of his passenger.  Mr A didnt agree and so the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings, below, on 8 March 2021 and invited  both parties to respond.
Im not satisfied Calpe  has enough  evidence to suggest the claim is fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated as the term it has relied  on requires. And, I havent seen any 
evidence that points me to believe that Mr A was providing a Taxi service.  I say this 
because the CCTV  shows the passenger also abandoned the car with Mr A. I think 
its unlikely a paying passenger would do this, and in fact they would probably think it 
most odd for even  Mr A to leave  the scene if indeed  he was the taxi driver.  I think  its 
Ref: DRN53848203more likely the passenger was known to Mr A, but he does  not want  to provide 
contact details for the passenger for reasons known only to him.
However, I do think that Calpe has been able to show that Mr A has given a number 
of inaccurate accounts including,  but not limited to:
What Mr A has told it about his job at the start of the policy   and the contradiction of 
this on his finance application  when  buying  the car.
His denial  of being  a company director and later admission;
His abandonment of the car at the time of the accident  saying he was injured  and 
needed help, when Calpe has shown he wasnt;
Saying he couldnt  report  the accident  as his mobile phone had no battery, when  the 
evidence has shown  different; and
His statement that he saw nobody at the time of accident when the CCTV and 
witness accounts dispute this
Mr As policy  requires  him to fully cooperate  with any claim and the conditions  section 
of the policy  explicitly  says:
You must give us all the information  and help we need to process  the claim
I dont believe Mr A has complied with this condition as he has withheld the contact 
information for his passenger and hasnt  been  able to answer  the questions  Calpe  
has about the discrepancies above  to its satisfaction.
Given this, I understand  why Calpe would have concerns about Mr As honesty 
around his employment status and the circumstances of the claim. And I think  
Calpes concerns are validly held. So, Im satisfied that Calpes position to not pay 
the claim,  at this time,  is a reasonable one, so I dont intend  on asking it to do 
anything different at this stage.
However, if Mr A would like his claim to reconsidered, he needs to cooperate fully 
with Calpe and should now provide it with the information it has asked for in relation 
to his passenger.
He should also address  the concerns it has regarding both his personal 
circumstances and the claim circumstances. If he does this, Calpe should reconsider 
his claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If Mr A, after he has complied with the above,  is unhappy with Calpes 
reconsideration of the claim he can ask this service  to look at that matter again  
provided there is new evidence.
Calpe responded saying:
Whilst we do accept the majority of your decision rejecting the complaint, we are 
surprised that your decision instructs us to consider the customers  claim if he 
cooperates on the points  of concern we raised.  This is despite  the fact it has been  
proven that the customer lied to us on numerous points, in breach of his policy 
conditions. Compliance  with all the terms of the policy is required for indemnity under 
the policy. We do not believe that someone  caught misleading us on several aspects  
of his claim should be entitled to have their claim considered by very belatedly  
Ref: DRN53848204providing us with another version of events. The customer breached his policy 
conditions and any explanations provided now will have very little credibility.
Mr A also responded.  The response rejected my provisional findings saying that all evidence  
that had been provided  by Mr A contradicts all elements of the decision that favour the 
insurance company.  The response included a copy of a hospital discharge  summary, 
showing that Mr A had attended the accident and emergency department at 9pm of the 
evening following the accident.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will address both responses below, but 
before I do must let Mr A and Calpe  know that Ive reached the same  decision as in my 
provisional findings.
Its clear Mr A hasnt been entirely truthful  or helpful with Calpe  throughout this claim. If 
Calpe believes there is a condition or exclusion within the policy  that means this would 
invalidate Mr As claim, it should  cite it and decline his claim on that basis.  However, up 
until now Calpe has only tried to exclude the claim on the basis of the fraud  exclusion 
contained in the policy, and as Ive pointed out in my provisional  findings, I do not believe it 
has enough evidence  to support this exclusion. To be clear,  my provisional findings were 
for Calpe to reconsider the claim only if Mr A is able to satisfactorily  clear  up all of the 
discrepancies and concerns Calpe has around this claim, otherwise Calpe need not do 
anything more.
Turning to Mr As response, I dont agree the evidence  he has provided contradict the 
findings I have  made.  He has provided evidence to show he lives at the address where his 
car was registered, but this by no means  clears up all of the discrepancies  and concerns that 
Calpe have surrounding the claim, up to this point.
I feel I should point  out, the discharge  summary  Mr A provided  with his response  does  show 
that he attended hospital and told the hospital  he had suffered the same injuries he told 
Calpe he had, but I dont agree that it supports  Mr As position, for the following reasons:
Mr A says that he abandoned the car as he needed to get help for his injury.  The 
accident happened around 3am in the morning but Mr A didnt seek  help until around  
18 hours later at 9pm that evening  this contradicts his reasoning  for abandoning his 
car at the time of the accident.
The discharge summary also states that Mr A works as a manager. This was the 
same employment as stated on his finance agreement and in direct contradiction of 
what he told Calpe his employment was when taking the insurance. This further of 
calls into question Mr As explanation to Calpe that he had no input into his finance 
arrangement, and further suggests  that he was fully aware and played an active role 
in the running  of the chauffeur company.
As I explained previously, I think Calpe has validly held concerns around  the circumstances 
of this claim and around Mr As accounts so far. So, I dont think  its position  in not paying the 
claim at this time is an unreasonable one and so I wont be asking it to do anything different, 
unless Mr A is able to satisfactorily  clear up the discrepancies  and concerns as described 
above.
Ref: DRN53848205my final decision
It follows, for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Amber Mortimer  
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5384820