K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) gave her misleading 
information about her pension.  She thinks the yearly reviews it sent, misled her into thinking 
she could make contributions into her pension plan. As a result, she believes she has lost 
out on being able to make contributions into her pension before the end of the 2017 / 2018 
tax year.
background
In 2010 Mrs C transferred  pension  benefits from her former employers occupational  pension 
scheme (OPS), into a section 32 transfer  pension plan. This was with another  company, but 
Aviva is now responsible for that plan. 
Aviva said that policy terms and conditions were  provided to Mrs C when the new plan was 
set up. And it also said the policy terms and conditions informed her that no further 
contributions were permitted to be made  into the plan.  It provided a copy of the policy  
document, policy schedule and the covering letter sent to Mrs C.
Annual review letters  were also sent to Mrs C. These set out information  about Mrs Cs 
pension and what contributions could be made into pensions. 
Mrs C talked to her accountant about making a pension contribution  to use up her unused 
annual contribution allowance from the previous  three years. She took a dividend  from her 
business to enable her to do that. On 23 March  2018 Mrs C contacted Aviva about making a 
payment into her pension.  She was told that she couldnt make  further  contributions into the 
plan. This was because  when  it was set up, it could only receive  the transfer of the proceeds 
from her former employers pension scheme.
Mrs C complained to Aviva. It said in response  that it always included  general wording about 
the annual allowance in the yearly reviews it sent out, even though  she wasnt  able to make 
further contributions  into her pension with it.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Cs complaint. He wrote to Aviva  explaining  why he 
was upholding  the complaint. In summary:
He didnt think the information provided by Aviva  in its annual  reviews was clear.  
He thought if Mrs C had been provided with clear information she would have acted 
differently. He believed Mrs C had left it too late to open  a new plan into which  she 
could contribute  but thought this was as a result of the information provided to her by 
Aviva. 
He also thought Aviva should investigate if a new plan could be opened.  
He felt Aviva should pay Mrs C £100  for the upset  she had been caused. And it 
needed to pay any additional tax liability incurred by Mrs C s a result of her not being 
able to pay a lump sum into her pension. 
Aviva didnt agree. In summary it said:
The policy schedule sent to Mrs C referred to the terms and conditions which were 
very clear regarding ongoing  contributions.  
There was nowhere on the annual statement that confirmed  contributions could be 
made into the policy. 
Ref: DRN54610122Even if it was conceded the document could be better worded, the letter  shouldnt  
override the terms  and conditions issued at the commencement of the policy. 
It also raised a number of questions  and points regarding Mrs Cs ability to pay into a 
pension and whether she would have  suffered  any losses.  
Our investigator then wrote to Mrs C explaining what Aviva had said. Mrs C disagreed with it. 
She didnt  think she had received the terms and conditions  and thought  she could rely on the 
subsequent information provided  to her. She had no other  pension  and the correspondence  
from Aviva  underlined  the importance  of utilising HMRC allowances  for contributions. After 
Mrs C responded to him, the investigator asked her for further information.  Mrs C provided 
him with details about her income from her tax return.
The investigator then issued a second view. In summary:
He didnt think the annual review letters were  clear  or that Aviva  had treated her 
fairly. But he wasnt certain it had caused  Mrs C losses.  But he thought  the 
information provided to Mrs C was misleading. 
And he thought  that she should  be paid £100 for the upset she had been caused  as a 
result of this. 
But, taking into account what Mrs C had said about her previous work  and cashflow, 
he thought Mrs C would  have  found it difficult to pay the money into a pension plan 
as she might not have  the qualifying net relevant  earnings to do so. 
So, he didnt think clearer information  would  necessarily have prevented losses  
overall. 
Mrs C didnt agree so the case has been passed  to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2020,  which  set out why I was intending not to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  I asked for any responses by 28 February 2020.  Aviva said it 
didnt think it could  add anything else at present. 
In summary  Mrs C said:
She didnt think that it could be ignored  that the most frequent and recent 
correspondence from Aviva had been misleading. 
The annual review  letters should be able to be relied upon.
There was no reasonable explanation for Aviva to use generic wording that had no 
application to many of its customers.
There could be two versions for open  and closed  plans.
It was unfair for a consumer to have to spend  money seeing a financial advisor.
She thought  I should insist Aviva and other  providers should make clear  in their 
letters to consumers the status  of a pension fund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
The crux of the issue that I need  to decide is whether Mrs C wasnt able to make  her pension  
contribution as a result  of something  that Aviva did wrong.
Ref: DRN54610123As summarised above, Mrs C contacted Aviva  about making a lump sum contribution  into 
her pension towards the end of the tax year. In essence, shes said she was led to believe 
from the annual  review letters sent to her, that she could make contributions into her pension 
plan. And shes repeated  that view in her responses  to my provisional decision.
It appears that the annual reviews sent to Mrs C over several years, were in a similar format. 
Ive made  a number  of observations regarding  the most recent  review  sent to Mrs C in 
October 2017. It provided specific  information about the pension policy including its value 
and the funds it was invested in. And it gave details of the transfer value of the plan and an 
illustration of the estimated pension fund and pension  income  at the selected  retirement  
date.
In addition to this, it had a notes and assumptions  section.  This provided information about  
the transfer value of the plan, an explanation as to how unit linked funds worked  and 
information about how the annual  allowance in respect of pension contributions worked. It 
went on to give information about  the lifetime allowances and the lifestyle  investment 
programme.
Mrs C believes  that the information contained in the annual review letters, which  Ive 
summarised above; led her to believe she could contribute into her plan. And I agree  that 
there is a lot of information about  the level of contributions that can be made into a pension. 
There is also a reference to paying more into your plan, in relation  to any discussion with a 
financial adviser about retirement  aims . But I think the information needs to be put into the 
context of how the letter as a whole  is phrased, and the other  information  provided. 
My impression is that the information in the letter sets out general points that should be 
thought about in the context of retirement planning.  I say this because  for example, it 
suggests thinking about whether plans for retirement  have changed  or if changes  to the 
individuals circumstances  will affect them. And it suggests comparing the projected pension  
with the level of income that might be needed in retirement. 
Also, importantly in my view, it suggests  talking  about retirement aims and any need for 
advice with a financial adviser, several times  within the document. And it also says Aviva can 
provide information  as well as the pension advisory service. So, I dont think Mrs C would 
necessarily need  to spend money  seeing  a financial adviser to obtain information  about her 
pension.
I think the information about the annual allowance and the level of contributions  that can be 
made into pensions  was also of a general  nature. I say this because  my interpretation is that 
it isnt written with specific reference to Mrs Cs plan.  And I think the second sentence of that 
section which says:  This is the maximum that you or someone else, for example your 
employer, can contribute  to all your pension plans in one year (my emphasis), without 
incurring a tax charge, supports this.
Mrs C told Aviva that she had spoken to her accountant about  making  pension  contributions.  
She said that the accountant told her Aviva  would be happy to accept them.  But Im not 
aware that her accountant contacted Aviva and confirmed that. It seems to me that it was an 
assumption that was made. And the decision for Mrs C to take a dividend and make a carry 
forward payment to use previous years unused relief, was based on advice provided by 
Ref: DRN54610124Mrs Cs accountant.  So, it doesnt  seem to me from the information Ive seen that the 
assumption pension  contributions  could be made  into this plan, came solely from the 
information provided to Mrs C by Aviva.
Ive also noted  that the heading  on the first page  of the annual review  has a sub heading 
titled Transfer plan. Whilst this may understandably not have had much significance  or 
meaning to Mrs C, I think it would have alerted a financial adviser to the nature of Mrs Cs 
pension plan. I say this because in my experience, that description is a common  industry 
term used to describe  pension  plans such as the one Mrs C held with Aviva. And I think that 
would have alerted a financial  adviser that Mrs Cs pension might not be one that could 
accept contributions.
Mrs C has made the point that the annual review  letters dont specifically say her pension 
cant accept contributions. I agree that is the case.  And I accept it might have been helpful  if 
it did. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that necessarily means  the 
information contained in the annual review letters was misleading. 
Mrs C also thinks  I should insist Aviva  should make  clear  in their letters to consumers the 
status of their pension  fund. I do understand Mrs Cs frustration, but I dont have the 
authority to do that. My role and remit is to look at individual complaints. It would be a matter  
for the regulator  to decide whether Aviva  needed to do something different in its 
communications with customers. 
Mrs C strongly  believes  that she should have been able to rely on the annual review  letters 
sent to her. But they werent  the only information she received from Aviva about her pension. 
When she took out her pension in 2010, Aviva  wrote to her enclosing  a copy  of the policy  
schedule and policy conditions. 
Mrs C has said she didnt think she had received the terms and conditions from Aviva. I 
accept she may not recall  receiving any documentation at the time the policy was set up. But 
the letter enclosing  the policy schedule and document was correctly addressed to Mrs C at 
her current  address. She received other  documentation from Aviva such  as the annual 
reviews. So, I think  its more likely than not that the letter and documentation  were delivered 
to her address.
The policy schedule said that it should be read in conjunction with the policy  conditions. So, 
Im satisfied Aviva brought to her attention  the need to read the policy  conditions.  
Ive noted that on page  2 of that document, condition 2.1 says:
The only payment that can be made  into your plan is the transfer value from your previous 
scheme. 
The information was contained on page 2 of an 11-page document. So, I think  Mrs C would 
have noticed it if she had read the policy conditions.
I do understand the strength of Mrs Cs feeling  that she was misled about  her ability to make 
contributions into the pension  plan by the annual  review letters sent to her. And I 
acknowledge that the call handler that she spoke to, thought the information in the annual 
review letter  was misleading, as did our investigator. And whilst I agree that the information 
she received after taking out her pension would also have been important, for the reasons 
Ref: DRN54610125Ive explained;  I dont think in the circumstances of her case that it was misleading. Or that it 
was the only information Mrs C relied  on.  
I am required to make  my own independent assessment of the evidence. That means that 
on occasion I might come  to a different conclusion to an investigator. As I said earlier  in my 
decision, I need to consider all of the evidence presented to me. And I think  the information 
sent to Mrs C shortly after the policy was set up, is also relevant to what she was told by 
Aviva and what she would have understood about  how the plan worked. I cant ignore it. 
As a result, for the reasons Ive set out in this decision, Im satisfied that Aviva gave Mrs C 
information that would have made her aware  no further contributions  could be made into her 
plan and it didnt  mislead her that she could. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5461012