K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc did not close  his account  when  it should  have 
done thereby  letting  him run up further debt as a result.
 
background 
In July 2017 Mr R contacted  Capital One. He said he told it he had been using his account to 
spend on gambling to which he was addicted. He arranged it so the balance  was paid off 
and it agreed to close the account within two days.  But it didnt. Rather it kept the account 
open. Mr R then used  the account  to gamble some more, and he spent £1,400. 
Mr R felt he was only able to do this because of Capital Ones  mistake. He wanted it to 
reduce the account balance to nil. He also asked for £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Capital One agreed  that it should have closed the account. However,  it offered nothing  
further in terms of redress.
Dissatisfied with this Mr R came  to our service.  We contacted Capital One and it agreed to 
write off the default sum, cash advance fees and interest applied to Mr Rs account  since  26 
July 2017  which at this point this amounted to £734.71. It said this represented all fees and 
charges and interest it has applied to the account in relation  to the £1,400.  It agreed to apply 
this sum to Mr Rs account to reduce the remaining balance.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. In summary,  our investigator thought the offer 
from Capital One was fair and reasonable and endorsed it. 
Mr R rejected the offer from Capital One.  In short, he didnt agree it went  far enough.  In 
particular he didnt think Capital One had treated him fairly given that he was a vulnerable  
consumer. He pointed  out Capital One had only come forward  with an offer after he came to 
us. He also raised new complaint points about  information registered by it on his credit file. 
These points had not been raised with Capital One before in this complaint. We told Mr R on 
this basis we had no power to look at his new complaint points.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have finished my review of Mr Rs 
complaint. I think the offer from Capital One is fair and reasonable. I am not going  to ask it to 
do more. Please let me explain why this is.
Both parties  agree that Mr R asked  Capital One to close his account in July 2017. It said it 
would do this and it didnt. Further both parties  appear to agree that Mr R told Capital One in 
July 2017 that he had a gambling addiction. They all also agree that Capital One ought  to 
have closed the account when it said it would.
The only question for me to look at then is has Capital One done enough to make up for its 
mistake. Thats what Ill look at here. But before  I do I want  to mention one additional point, 
Mr R says he is not complaining about whether Capital One acted irresponsibly in lending  to 
Ref: DRN56803012him. That, he says, is a separate complaint. That being so I have not looked  at whether the 
decision to lend to Mr R was irresponsible. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties, and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single  point made  by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what  I think are the 
key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
I recognise that Mr R was a vulnerable consumer, and I think Capital One ought to have 
taken note of this. When a consumer asks to close their account I would expect a financial 
business to follow that instruction without unnecessary  delay. All the more  so here, where  it 
seems Mr R was very worried about  his situation and feeling vulnerable.
That said,  I think Capital Ones offer is fair and reasonable. Mr R had the benefit of the 
money he spent. On that basis  I dont think in the individual  circumstances of this complaint 
it would  be fair and reasonable to tell Capital One to write off that debt. But I do think it 
should have to do something  to recognise it did not close  the account  when it said it was 
going to do so. In particular  I agree it should refund the default sum, cash advance fees and 
interest applied  to Mr Rs account  since 26 July 2017, as it has already agreed to. As far as I 
am aware  this reflects all the fees,  charges and interest that Capital One has applied to the 
account in relation to the further £1,400 Mr R spent.
Mr R thinks Capital One should have made this offer when  he complained, and not only after 
our service  became involved. But Capital One looked at his complaint at the time,  and 
decided it had no obligation to make an offer. It is entitled to make commercial  decisions like 
this. But it is also entitled to change its mind, when  it thinks it made a mistake, as is the case  
here. Mr R has not lost out financially because of this, I think. As Capital One has agreed to 
refund the default sum, cash advance  fees and interest  applied.  This is what I would  have 
asked it to do if it had not already agreed  to do this. 
Ive thought about whether Mr R ought to get an award for distress and inconvenience as he 
asks for. But Im afraid  Im not persuaded Mr R did experience distress and inconvenience 
because Capital One failed to close his account.  What happened was he rang them  at the 
time, found the account was still open and used it. I can see he subsequently  regretted his 
actions But I dont think I can fairly and reasonably make an award for distress and 
inconvenience in these circumstances.
I see no reason why Capital One ought  not to apply the refund to Mr Rs account to reduce 
the balance. It will help his financial situation,  and given what I know  about  his addiction, I 
think this is the most protective course  of action. 
Mr R has raised  new matters about the information Capital One has and will register with the 
credit reference agencies about  his conduct of his account. This appears to be a new matter 
and has not been considered by Capital One in its final response to Mr R or investigated 
within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this matter  in this final decision.
Ref: DRN56803013my final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should refund all interest,  charges and fees 
it has applied in relation to the £1,400 Mr R spent after his account should have been closed, 
and use this refund to reduce the balance of the account.
Capital One must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5680301