K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold loans to her and her late husband Mr H. To 
resolve her complaint  she wants Santander to rework the loans and reset them  as if they 
had been capital repayment  loans  and that she and Mr H had made  all the repayments.
background 
Mrs H is represented in her complaint by her son-in-law whom I will call Mr W.
In November 2003 Mr and Mrs H re-mortgaged their property with Santander.  The 
application was for a loan of £27,000. This comprised £22,000 to repay their existing 
mortgage and £5,000  for home improvements.  The loan was interest-only for a term of 20 
years. The application said Mr and Mrs H were both retired.  They were then aged 62 and 58.
In September  2004 Mr and Mrs H took a further advance from Santander of £6,000  over a 
term of 15 years. In July 2005 they took a further advance of £10,000 over a term of 18 
years 8 months for debt consolidation.  In November 2005 they took a further advance of 
£6,000 over a term of 18 years 2 months.  The loans were all on an interest-only basis,  and 
all the applications  and acceptances  were  purportedly signed by both Mr and Mrs H.
Mr H passed away in 2016. Following correspondence received by Mrs H from Santander, 
Mr W wrote  to Santander in September 2018. He said Mrs H couldnt  recall the further  
advances nor having signed  for them. He questioned how she could  have ended  up at her 
age with loans  totalling £49,000 and no realistic way of repaying them.  
Santander replied  that a customer  profile had been completed at the time of the 2005 
application. The application form had confirmed incomes of £5,760 plus other income of 
£10,800 for Mr H and £6,048 for Mrs H. Santander  had received a letter from Mr Hs 
employer confirming he was permanently employed  as a receptionist for 16-20  hours  per 
week at £5.30  per hour. Santander said it appeared that Mr H had had financial difficulties in 
2010 and Santander had received a charging  order for a judgment of £11,629.22.
Santander didnt  agree that Mrs H wasnt aware  of the further advances. It said shed signed 
the original and all the acceptances. Shed been  supplied with clear  documentation showing 
the lending was interest-only. Santander  had received income  confirmation  from Mr Hs 
employers and copies  of the benefits being  received.  Mr and Mrs H had received  a leaflet 
which explained the ramifications of interest-only  borrowing going into retirement, and 
documentation which  expressed the need to have some investment policy  or plan to repay  
the mortgage at the end of the term.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. She said through  
Mr W that Santander shouldnt have lent to her and Mr H so close  to their retirement, 
knowing they would be pensioners when  repayment of the loan fell due. 
She said the evidence of Mr Hs income wasn't sufficient. Santander  should  have made  
further checks to prove income was regular. There was nothing  to suggest Santander 
explained the risk of the borrowing or told Mr and Mrs H what would happen to their house 
when the loan became due for repayment. They were both in poor health and on disability 
benefits. Mr H had had several heart attacks. Their  joint income  was nowhere near sufficient.
Ref: DRN57323182Our investigator didnt  recommend Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. She said that when the 
initial borrowing  was taken it was detailed that both Mr and Mrs H were  retired with pension 
income. Evidence was also provided to show they received disability benefit. The application 
was assessed  taking this into account.  There was also the letter  from Mr Hs employers 
confirming he was working part time. The application met Santanders lending criteria at the 
time.
The investigator said rules and regulations had changed over the years,  but it was only 
those applicable at the time of the applications which  should  be considered. We couldnt 
apply newer rules and regulations to applications  which had taken place previously. The 
investigator couldnt see anything to suggest the loans shouldnt have been sold to 
Mr and Mrs H. The applications also appeared to be a true reflection of their retired income 
and employment  status.
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.  Mr W said he 
was concerned about end of term repayment  more than affordable monthly  payments. His 
point wasnt so much whether the monthly  interest  payments  were  affordable.  They were 
met, so arguably they were affordable. Rather his point was that based  upon the evidence 
that Santander had, how likely was it that Mr and Mrs H would have enough money at the 
end of the terms to repay the borrowing?
Mr W says Santander wasnt aware  of Mr H's employment status at the time. He only went  
into work on a casual basis and mostly (owing to ill health) not at all. If Santander  had put all 
the evidence together  it would have seen that there was nothing to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs H would  have any savings at all or any means of repaying an interest-only  loan.
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator.  So I decided  to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Faced with her problems, Mrs H didnt apply to Santander to extend the terms of her 
interest-only loans.  She instead repaid them  on 13 September 2019  with the proceeds of an 
equity release loan.  Had she applied to extend the terms  and been refused, Id have had to 
consider, among other  things, the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  Mortgage  Conduct of 
Business rules (MCOB) 11.7.3  and whether  the extension would have been in her best 
interests. 
However as matters stand, the complaint boils down to the question whether any of the 
loans were mis-sold according  to the regulations  and guidance in force at the time of each  
sale, and if so, what follows from that.
The investigator concentrated  on affordability, that is to say Mr and Mrs Hs ability to service  
the loans from their income.  But that isnt primarily what this complaint is about.  The monthly 
interest payments  were met, so arguably they were affordable. The complaint concerns 
Mr and Mrs Hs ability to repay the loans at the end of their terms.
Mrs Hs complaint concerns all the loans, i.e. the 2003 re-mortgage, the September  2004  
further advance  and the July and November 2005 further advances.
Ref: DRN57323183As far as regulations  and guidance are concerned, the 2003 re-mortgage and the September  
2004 further advance were subject to the Council of Mortgage Lenders  Mortgage  Code. 
This was a voluntary code setting out standards of good practice  pre-dating  formal 
regulation. The further advances in July and November 2005 were subject to MCOB. This 
set out rules which lenders had to follow. Ill set out the relevant provisions of the Code and 
MCOB.
The requirements of the Code differed according to whether the sale was advised or not. 
Theres no evidence that Santander was acting  as an adviser to Mr and Mrs H and in those  
circumstances Santanders  duties were to:
1.provide a general description of different mortgage repayment vehicles; 
2.explain the effect of failing  to make suitable  arrangements to repay  the mortgage; 
3.provide information  on whose responsibility it was to ensure that an adequate repayment 
method was in place.
In addition the Code said at paragraph 4.1:
All lending  will be subject  to our assessment of your ability to repay. 
MCOB said at the relevant time:
11.3.1 
(1)A firm must be able to show  that before deciding to enter into a regulated mortgage 
contract with a customer or making a further advance on a regulated mortgage contract, 
account was taken of the customer's  ability to repay.
(2)A firm must make an adequate record to demonstrate  that it has taken account of the 
customer's ability to repay for each regulated mortgage contract that it enters  into and 
each further advance that it provides on a regulated  mortgage  contract. The record  must 
be retained for a year from the date at which the regulated  mortgage  contract  is entered  
into or the further advance is provided.
11.3.5
(2)Other factors that the FSA would expect to be considered by a firm in taking account of 
the customer's ability to repay  include:
(a) the level of both initial and subsequent repayments, where known (including, for 
interest-only mortgages, the cost of any associated repayment vehicle).
(b) whether the customer  has the ability to, and intends  to, repay, either wholly or partly,  from 
resources other than income. Such resources could include the realisation  of investments, or 
the planned sale of the mortgaged property as in the case of a regulated lifetime mortgage 
contract.
11.3.6
Where the regulated mortgage contract  is an interest-only mortgage,  and the firm is unable 
to establish the cost of the associated  repayment  vehicle, the repayments described  in 
MCOB 11.3.5 (2)(a) may be based on an equivalent repayment mortgage .
Ref: DRN5732318411.3.8
The record  maintained in accordance with MCOB 11.3.1 R(2) should  include or provide 
reference to matters such as:
(1) what checks, if any, the firm has carried out, regarding  the customer's ability to repay; or
(2) evidence that demonstrates the customer's ability and intention to repay the loan, from 
resources other than income.
In relation to the 2003 re-mortgage and the September 2004 further advance, Santander 
says that the practice of its mortgage advisers at that time followed the Code, and that 
Mr and Mrs H would  have been handed a copy of the You  and your Mortgage guide at the 
time of the application interview. 
I've looked  at the mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs H on 3 December 2003. It includes 
the following:
The repayment  period  of the mortgage will be 20 years from the date of completion of the 
mortgage. You must repay all sums owed on or before the end of the repayment period.
It is important  that you please:
- Read carefully all of the documents enclosed with this mortgage  offer;
- Seek advice if there  is anything in this letter  or the enclosed documents which  you do not 
understand;
You should note that it is your responsibility to ensure that adequate funds are available to 
repay the loan by the end of the loan term. If you have not done  so already, you are 
strongly advised to consider life assurance to protect the loan and if you require further 
advice, please  contact your financial advisor.
Santander points  out that Mr and Mrs H would  have received an annual mortgage statement 
at the end of each  calendar year reminding them that the account operated on interest only,  
confirming the end date of the mortgage and showing that the mortgage balance  wasnt  
reducing. 
Although Santander says that the practice of its mortgage advisers  followed the Code, the 
documents confirm  compliance only with the third of the duties set out above, and there are 
no meeting notes confirming compliance  with the first and second  duties. That may be 
because the meeting was 17 years ago. But neither is there any indication  that Santander 
took any steps to assess Mr and Mrs Hs ability to repay the capital before making any of the 
loans, as required by paragraph 4.1 of the Code.
In relation to the further advances in July and November 2005, Santander carried  out a 
customer profile review  on Mr and Mrs H and has provided a written record  of this dated  
16 June 2005.  It records that:
Mr H had no plans or policies, no ISAs, no deposit-based savings or investments, and no 
equity-based investments; 
Ref: DRN57323185Mrs H had £333.18 in an account  with Santander, no other savings, no lump  sum to 
invest, no funds  available  for saving, no plans or policies, no ISAs, no deposit-based  
savings or investments, and no equity-based investments.
Theres nothing in this record about  any checks having been made regarding Mr and Mrs Hs 
ability to repay the advances at the end of their terms, and no indication that Santander took 
any account of that. As the customer profile review has been produced, I think  its likely that 
if Santander had made  the records required by MCOB 11.3 they would have  been  produced  
too. So I provisionally conclude that it didnt.
The 2005  applications and offers dont shed any further light on this issue.  The November  
offer does refer in paragraph 5 to an assumption  by Santander that Mr and Mrs H would 
repay the loan as a lump sum at the end of the term, but theres no indication of any enquiry 
having been made as to how they might do this.
That offer does say in paragraph 6:
You have not told us how you propose  to repay  the loan at the end of the additional 
borrowing term. We would remind you of the importance of ensuring that you have suitable 
arrangements in place to repay the loan at the end of the additional  borrowing  term.
We would  advise you to check regularly the performance of any investment used as a 
repayment vehicle,  to see whether it is likely  to be adequate to repay  the capital borrowed at 
the end of the additional borrowing term.
And Part C condition 4 says: It is your responsibility  to ensure that adequate funds are 
available to repay the loan by the end of the loan term. 
But again,  this material doesnt suggest that Santander actually took any account of 
Mr and Mrs Hs ability to repay before  lending  them  the money   as it was required to do.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 25 November 2005:
Thanks for choosing Abbey to help you borrow more money. I'm pleased to say your total 
additional borrowing  of £6,000.00 was set up on 25 November  2005.
Here's how your mortgage  balance will be set up.
Loan Balance Interest Rate
£10,000.00 5.44%
£27,000.00 5.59%
£6,000.00 5.50%
£6,000.00 5.69%
Please ensure that you have set up an investment  to repay the capital  element  at the end of 
your mortgage. You'll need to keep an eye on how your investment is doing,  to make sure 
you'll have enough money  to repay your mortgage. It's up to you to make sure you can pay 
back your mortgage when the loan ends.
But I dont think that was enough. Telling  Mr and Mrs H that they should have a repayment 
vehicle wasnt the same thing as checking whether they had one, or had the means to put 
Ref: DRN57323186one in place, before lending the money. And they patently didnt. They  had no savings and 
fairly low incomes. How were they going  to repay? Irrespective of whether sale of the 
property at the end of the shortest  of the terms would  have been a sensible repayment 
vehicle (where would  they live?) I cant see that the question was considered.  
For these reasons I dont  consider that it was appropriate and responsible  for Santander to 
make these loans to Mr and Mrs H.
What follows from this? Mrs H wants Santander  to rework the loans  and reset them  as if they 
were capital repayment loans and that she and Mr H had maintained all the repayments.  But 
Mr and Mrs H couldnt have afforded  to do that, and this would  amount  to writing off the 
capital. However Mr and Mrs H would always have had to pay the capital  back. They 
received it, used it and had the benefit  of it. 
The capital has now been repaid  and what remains  is for me to consider  whether I should 
make any award in respect  of the trouble  and upset caused to Mrs H. Mr W says Santander 
put her in a position of great stress  just when she least  needed  it. She'd  not long lost her 
husband and then she thought she would be thrown  out of her home.  He says she was 
completely at her wits end with worry.
Having considered all the circumstances I consider that there should be an award and that 
an appropriate sum is £750.
There is one further matter I should deal with. In the complaint to Santander  dated  
1 September 2018 Mr W said Mrs H doesnt  recall signing for any of the three further  
advances. In the complaint form dated 10 October  2018 Mrs H says:
They have provided documents which on the face of it look like they carried out due 
diligence in providing the loan but I don't think they should have lent that amount of money  to 
us at very close to retirement.
This falls short of asserting that Mrs H didnt sign for the further advances and/or that her 
signatures were forged.  And I think that unlikely in the circumstances.  From what  Mrs H and 
Mr W have said,  Mr and Mrs Hs finances were operated jointly  which  isnt unusual. While 
Mrs H may well not have been as involved  as the late Mr H in deciding what  loans to take 
out and on what  terms, thats not to say she didnt  agree to the loans. Besides that, 
Santander sent annual statements to both Mr and Mrs H and later just to Mrs H; I might have 
expected Mrs H to have raised this matter soon after Mr H died in 2016  if these  loans had 
been signed fraudulently.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Santander said it had nothing further to 
add. 
Mrs H through Mr W said she was glad the complaint  had been upheld but was a little 
disappointed with the outcome. 
She said the existing  loan from the previous  lender  was a capital  repayment  loan and if the 
borrowing  from Santander  had been  rejected,  as it should  have  been,  she and Mr H would  
have  repaid  the original  loan within  the term.  Of course,  they wouldnt  have  had the 
Ref: DRN57323187additional  monies  either,  but those  loans  were  also a bad idea and bad lending  in any 
event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its difficult to know  whether Mr and Mrs H would  have  been  able to repay  the original  loan 
within  the term,  and also have  been  able to live within  their means,  without  any additional  
borrowing.  Its equally  possible  that it might  have  been  a struggle  to do that and that they 
might  have  had to resort  to more  expensive  borrowing.
Be that as it may,  Im not persuaded  that my provisional  award  wasnt  fair and reasonable  
and I therefore  confirm  it here.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay £750 
compensation to Mrs H for the trouble and upset  caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5732318