K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains Saga Services Limited (trading  as Bennetts) mis-sold him a motor 
insurance policy for his motorbike.
For ease in this decision,  Ill refer to Saga as Bennetts.
background 
Mr G insured his bike with Bennetts online.  He filled in his details as normal and said he 
would be storing  his bike in a garage overnight.
Mr G renewed  his policy the following year but had to make a claim to his insurer  as his bike 
was stolen, during  the day, from his driveway. The insurer declined his claim as his policy 
had an endorsement  saying theft wouldnt be covered  if his bike was not garaged when not 
in use. The insurer  incorrectly  quoted  its general  garaging policy endorsement to Mr G which 
said the words at any time. Bennetts specific policy endorsement didnt contain these 
words.
Mr G complained to Bennetts as he thought hed been mis-sold the policy.  He said he wasnt 
aware the garaging endorsement applied all of the time. Hed only agreed to take the policy  
on the basis his bike was garaged overnight. Mr G said if hed been made aware, he would 
have taken out a different policy which only had an overnight garaging endorsement. Or, he 
would have made sure his bike was always garaged.
Bennetts didnt agree  the policy  had been mis-sold. It said the endorsement would have 
been clear to Mr G when he was making the online application. It also pointed  out the 
endorsement was listed on the policy schedule sent to him after he took out the policy, and 
when it renewed  the next year. Mr G disagreed, he said he wasnt  made aware the 
endorsement limited  the cover hed asked for.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said the 
garaging endorsement was listed on the schedule, so she didnt think the policy had been  
mis-sold. Mr G disagreed and asked  for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
When doing so he reiterated the points hed made previously.
The complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 19 February 2020. I said I intended  to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
In this case. the garaging  endorsement applies all of the time the bike is not in use, within 
500 metres of Mr Gs home. So, not just for the overnight period Mr G had selected  when  
making his application. In order for me to say Mr G was able to make an informed decision 
about buying the policy, I would need to see that Bennetts brought  the significance  of this 
endorsement to Mr Gs attention and he was aware of how it differed to the policy  cover  hed 
requested.
Bennetts hasnt been able to provide a copy of the online application process  that Mr G went  
through. However, it has said Mr G wouldnt have  been given any warnings about  the 
Ref: DRN55689142potential garaging endorsement when  he said that hed be garaging  the bike overnight.  
Bennetts has said the policy  endorsements  would have been  available  via a link for Mr G to 
click through, when  he was presented  with the final quoted price. And, there would have 
been a warning at that point to say the prices provided were based on policy  endorsements, 
which should be checked before proceeding.
Bennetts hasnt suggested Mr G had to click on the link before he was able to continue and 
buy the policy, so its possible he could have purchased the policy  without reading the 
endorsement. And, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr G did click on the link, so I think  its 
likely he purchased the policy without doing  so.
Even if Mr G had of clicked on the link, without any warning the endorsement  proposed a 
significant change  to the cover that had been requested I dont  think Mr G would  have 
realised its significance. The endorsement  starts  by saying You  have  agreed  that you will 
keep your vehicle  in your private locked garage  or building, at your home address. 
Which Mr G had agreed to  hed selected he would garage  the bike overnight. Mr G has 
said the requirements around  garaging  his bike were  so important to him he wouldnt have 
purchased a policy that had an all the time garaging endorsement. So, Im satisfied that 
even if Mr G did read the endorsement, he didnt realise its significance.
Bennetts have pointed  out the endorsement was on the policy  schedule  sent to Mr G after 
hed purchased the policy. And, it was also listed again in the renewal documentation that 
was sent the following year. However, as Ive said above Bennetts had a duty to give Mr G 
clear enough  information  about  the policy before he bought it, so he was able to make an 
informed decision about whether it was right for him. And I dont think  it did. And, for the 
same reasons Ive explained above, I dont  think listing the endorsement in the 
documentation provided after the sale would have  made Mr G aware of the fact it 
significantly altered  the level of cover, hed asked for and thought hed bought.  Or, do I think  
it makes up for any failings in the sale of the policy.
Overall, I think Bennetts mis-sold Mr G the policy. I dont think  it gave Mr G clear enough 
information about the policys garaging endorsement before he bought  it. And, because of 
that, I dont  think Mr G was able to make  an informed decision about whether the policy was 
suitable for him.
Mr G has said he would  still have taken out an insurance policy, but one with an overnight  
garaging endorsement instead.  Because of this, I think Bennetts  should take this into 
account when  putting things right for Mr G. It should  assume Mr G would have taken a policy 
at the same  cost, with the same  excess just with an overnight garaging endorsement. Given 
that Mr G made a claim for the theft of his bike,  to put things right, Bennetts  will need to pay 
him any amount  he would have received from a claim under  that policy.  I think  it would also 
be reasonable for Bennetts to pay interest  on that amount from the date Mr Gs insurer 
declined his claim to the date Bennetts make any settlement.
Its clear from the submissions Mr G has made, having his insurance  claim declined and 
then having to have detailed correspondence with Bennetts about the garaging clause  has 
had an impact on him. Hes explained  being  without a bike has been inconvenient and hes 
been worrying, stressed and not sleeping properly at night because of the whole matter. So, 
I think its fair and reasonable for Bennetts to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset hes been caused.
Ref: DRN55689143my provisional decision
Im minded  to uphold  Mr Gs complaint against  Saga Services Limited. To put matters right, 
Id direct it to do the following:
Pay Mr G any amount  he would have received had he made  a claim under his motorbike 
insurance policy, assuming it had an overnight  garaging endorsement instead. (Saga 
Services Limited would be entitled to deduct  any excess  Mr G would have normally paid)
Pay interest on the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum  from the date Mr Gs 
insurer declined his claim to the date Saga Services Limited make any settlement.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr G said he accepted  my findings  but thought the amount of compensation awarded should 
be higher.
Bennetts said it didnt  agree. It reiterated that Mr G would have been  able to see the policy 
endorsements associated  with the policy if hed clicked on the hyper linked word within the 
quote. It said policy documents  were emailed to Mr G the same day and it was made  clear  
that Bennetts had not offered any advice as to whether the policy  was suitable for his needs. 
Within that email, it also asked Mr G to check through the information. Bennetts points out 
the policy endorsement would have been included in the schedule on page five of the 
documents. 
Bennetts also reiterated the garaging endorsement  would also have been on the renewal 
invite which was emailed  to Mr G. Page  one of that email explained  the importance of 
reading and understanding the information  and page two, had the endorsement. This was 
followed up by a renewal  pack  where  the endorsement was on page six of the documents. 
Bennetts says it believes Mr G has been clearly advised of the policy  endorsement 
applicable, on every  occasion possible and the information was presented prior to purchase. 
Mr G was asked to read and understand the information and it has always been on the same  
page each year. Bennetts said Mr G hadnt  contacted it at any time to dispute the 
endorsement. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I mentioned in my provisional decision,  in order for me to say Mr G was able to make an 
informed decision about buying the policy. I would need to see, that Bennetts brought  the 
significance of the endorsement  to Mr Gs attention before he bought the policy  and he was 
aware of how it differed  to the policy cover  hed requested. 
Bennetts has again pointed to the fact the endorsement was available  for Mr G to read had 
he of clicked on a hyper linked word.  However, for the same reasons given in my provisional  
decision, Im still not satisfied this would have made Mr G aware of the significance of the 
endorsement and how it differed from the garaging information hed supplied when quoting 
Ref: DRN55689144for the policy. Similarly, theres no evidence Mr G had to read this information in order to 
complete the purchase of the policy. 
I do accept the endorsement is listed on the policy documents and the renewal information. 
However, I have to be mindful that this information  is provided after the sale of the policy  and 
doesnt make up for any failings within that sales process. While the documents  do say the 
information should be read and understood, if nothing had altered within Mr Gs 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that, even if he had of read the documents closely,  Mr G 
would have realised  the endorsement significantly altered the level of cover,  hed asked for 
and thought hed bought.  
Overall, having re-considered everything  and Bennetts further submissions,  I dont  think  
Bennetts gave Mr G clear  enough information  about  the policys garaging  endorsement 
before he bought it. And, because of that, I dont think  Mr G was able to make an informed 
decision about whether the policy was suitable  for him. So, I think  the policy was mi-sold.
Neither Mr G or Bennetts has disputed my thoughts  on how the matter should  be put right so 
I think Bennetts should pay Mr G any amount he would have received had he made  a claim 
under his motorbike  insurance policy, assuming it had an overnight garaging  endorsement 
instead. Bennetts should add interest  to this amount from the date Mr Gs insurance claim 
was declined, but it is entitled to deduct  any excess that wouldve normally  been paid. 
Ive thought about the fact Mr G has said the compensation amount should be higher, but Im 
not minded to change this. I think £100  fairly  reflects the trouble and upset hes been 
caused. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Saga Services Limited and direct it to do the following:
Pay Mr G any amount  he would have received had he made  a claim under his motorbike 
insurance policy, assuming it had an overnight  garaging endorsement instead. (Saga 
Services Limited would be entitled to deduct  any excess  Mr G would have normally paid)
Pay interest on the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum1 from the date Mr Gs 
insurer declined his claim to the date Saga Services Limited make any settlement.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
1 If Saga Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should  also give him a certificate.
Ref: DRN5568914