K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about a course he paid for using a point of sale loan provided by
Honeycomb Finance  Limited (HFL).
Mr K is represented in his complaint by his wife. However, for ease of reading, I have
referred to all submissions from Mr Ks representative as being made by Mr K.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ks complaint in my provisional decision.  However,  so that all 
the relevant information is contained in this one document I will repeat that background here.
In October  2017 Mr K entered into a contract with a third-party supplier, a limited company 
who I shall call E. I will call this the service contract although it was a contract  for both 
services and products.  The service  contract was paid for using a point  of sale loan from HFL.
The purpose of the service contract was to provide educational support in English and Maths 
for Mr Ks two children. In particular, E was meant  to supply access  to Mathematics &/or 
English educational content (as indicated in the Mathematics Modules &/or Literacy  
Modules) for ten years  from the date of purchase . In addition to this, it was also meant  to 
provide educational support via online  learning and telephone calls for four years.  The idea 
being that Es products  and services would complement and enhance  the work Mr Ks 
children were doing as part of the National Curriculum they were following at their respective 
schools.
The separate loan contract  with HFL was for 48 months, despite the service contract lasting 
ten years. The total cash price of the service contract was £2,816. Mr K paid a deposit of 
£130. HFL provided credit of £2,686.
It seems  that for the first year of the contract all was well. However,  after this Mr Ks eldest 
child went to secondary school and began to find that the topics  covered were not relevant to 
her school work. In addition, her homework increased significantly and therefore she found  
she was using Es services less and less. 
Further Mr Ks youngest child was studying a particular topic in maths, but E was not able to 
provide any relevant course content  for this topic. Moreover, Es tutors  did not call back 
when they agreed  to do so, which in turn meant Mr Ks children began to lose interest. As a 
separate agreement  a third party had provided Mr K with a laptop which was meant to be 
used to access Es site. However, this laptop  did not work satisfactorily according to Mr K.
By the time Mr K complained his daughter was in year 8 at school. But the content  that E 
provided to Mr K only covered the National  Curriculum for school years  3 to 7 inclusive. It 
seems Mr Ks youngest  child was in school year 5 when  the contract began. Mr K said he 
hadnt realised  what school years were  covered  when he entered into the contract and would 
not have wanted to contract with E if he had known this. Rather, he had thought that the 
contract would  mean that his children would  have support to cover  the school  years  they 
were in at any given time, for the duration of the contract.
For all of these reasons Mr K believed  the service contract  had been  misrepresented  to him. 
He also thought he wasnt getting the service hed paid for because the tutors were not 
ringing back as agreed and because the laptop  was not of satisfactory  quality. 
Ref: DRN51001072As a result of all of the above,  Mr K wanted to end the service contract. Given that he had 
used a point of sale loan to pay for the contract  Mr K had rights under Section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Mr K relied on the rights he had under Section 75 to ask HFL to 
take responsibility to help him end the contract with nothing  further  owed by him and to get a 
full refund of everything he had paid so far.
HFL didnt  agree with Mr Ks stance.  In short, it thought Mr K had got what hed been 
promised and paid for and didnt  agree it had to do anything further to assist him. Although  it 
was disappointed that it had not met Mr Ks expectations on this occasion. It also pointed  out
that Mr K was long past the cooling off period  during which  he could have cancelled the loan.
Dissatisfied with HFLs response  Mr K came to our service.
I looked at Mr Ks complaint in the provisional decision I issued. In that decision I said I 
intended to uphold his complaint in part. I explained  why. Ive repeated my reasoning  below.
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some 
of it is here), I had reached my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
what I considered is most likely to have  happened in the light of the available evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
As I have already  mentioned  Mr K relies on the rights he has under  Section 75. I thought it 
was important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 
75. Rather, in deciding  whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ks complaint, I have to take account 
of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it 
into account. But that doesnt  mean Im obliged  to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr K pursued a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr K has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier he can also bring that claim against HFL. That being so if I 
thought the contract had been misrepresented  or breached by the supplier Id think it fair 
and reasonable to ask HFL to take responsibility for putting this right.
Further, I also thought  that Section 56 is relevant law. In short,  this provision makes HFL 
responsible for misrepresentations made by E before it sold the loan to Mr K.
It seemed to me that Mr K had only one reason for entering into this contract  he wanted to 
provide additional help for his childrens  education by ensuring  theyd  get extra support 
when they needed it with their schoolwork. I therefore struggled  to see why, Mr K would 
knowingly have entered into a contract that did not cover both of his children for the school 
years that they were  in and were  going to be in.
I found this all the more surprising,  in light of the fact that the supplier  did have modules 
that would  have covered the parts of the National Curriculum that Mr Ks children would be 
following during  the life of the contract. But instead he ended up with a contract that 
covered school years that his children had already  completed by the time the contract 
started. Moreover, his oldest child only benefitted  for one year,  that is when she was in 
school year 7. The following  year she moved  to year 8 and could no longer benefit from the 
contract.
Ref: DRN51001073.
I took on board that HFL tells us Mr K selected a contract that covers the curriculum from 
years 3-7. But it also says the supplier can provide support from years 1 to GCCE level.
I looked at the contractual documentation. I could see that someone selected  a number of 
module options  for Maths and English. But I had no idea how Mr K might  have  known what 
those modules were  and which  school years they related to. I said this because the modules 
are only identified by a number nothing else. The is no definition clause in the 
documentation I saw which  defined what each module actually covers.
Mr Ks service  contract  lasts for ten years although I noted he says he thought  it was for 
four years. When the service contract  started his first child was in year 7 of her schooling, 
as I had already  mentioned, his second  child was in year 5, of his schooling  it seems. So, 
Mr Ks children  would  only get respectively one years benefit and three years benefit  out 
of a ten-year service contract.
I said, that it would have been  helpful  to have heard Mr Ks version  of what was said when 
the service contract  was sold and Es version.  This might have shed light on why these 
particular seemingly in part inappropriate modules were selected. But I had very little 
information about this from either party.
That said,  based on the information I did have  available  to me I found it likely  in the 
circumstances, that the service contact was not explained properly to Mr K before he 
entered into it. I thought if it has been,  he would  not have entered  into the service contract 
or the loan to fund it. 
Alternatively, I thought it is likely that he was led to believe  that the contract would provide 
modules that were  relevant  to the school  years that both his children  were  in or would be in 
for the life of the contract.  Which is not what he has got. In other words, I found that the 
service contract was misrepresented to Mr K. As a result, I found  it was fair and reasonable 
to tell HFL that it must  take responsibility for this.
However, when I thought  about what HFL had to do to put things right,  I did not agree with 
Mr K that a full refund was appropriate.  Rather, I recognised that for the first year Mr Ks 
children did get a lot of benefit from the contract. Mr K described the service as brilliant. 
On that basis, I thought  it was fair and reasonable that Mr K must pay for this first year. 
But I didnt think he should  have to pay for anything else.
The loan contract was for four years the service  contract though was for ten years. I think 
therefore the cost for each year was £2,816/10  = £281.60 per year.  Further,  Mr K paid a 
deposit of £130. So, for the first year he should  only have paid £151.60  (= £281.60  - £130). 
So, I found that HFL must refund any sums Mr K had paid over £151.60  and it must pay 
interest on this refund.  Further, I found  that HFL must cancel  the loan contract with Mr K 
with nothing further owed by him.
However, it seemed  that E is no longer  trading. Although it appeared it had sold its assets 
including the service contract with Mr K to a third party. I cant  ask the third party  to cancel 
that service contract  too because it is not a party to this complaint. So, there is a possibility 
that this third party will continue to ask Mr K to make his payments towards the service  
contract. I thought this would be unfair to Mr K. To avoid that possibility I said,  HFL must 
contact the third-party  company and ask it not to pursue Mr K under the service  contract. If 
Ref: DRN51001074the third-party company insists on pursuing  Mr K then HFL must assume  liability in full for 
any payments that the third-party company demands from Mr K.
I said Mr K did raise  a complaint point about the service he has received from E after the 
first year of the service contract. But since I had refunded all the money he paid after the 
first year, which is what he was seeking,  I think this part of his complaint drops  away.  But I 
said, If I am mistaken  and Mr K wants me to look at this still, please  can he tell me so if he 
decides to respond  to my provisional  decision.
I also said Mr K also raised a complaint about the laptop. As far as I could see it was not 
paid for by finance provided by HFL, so I had no power to look at this part of Mr Ks 
complaint.
My provisional decision was as follows:
Honeycomb Finance  Limited must:
Refund any payments  that Mr K has made towards the loan other than the £151.16 
for the first year of the agreement.  It must  also pay interest on this refund at the rate 
of 8% simple per year.  The interest to run from the date the payments were  made  
until the date of settlement.
Cancel the loan contract with Mr K with nothing  further owed by him.
Contact the credit  reference agencies and ask them  to remove any information it has 
asked them to register on Mr Ks credit file about  the loan.
Contact the third-party company about  the service contract  and ask it to agree to not 
pursue Mr K for payment for the service contract.  If, however, the third-party company 
chases Mr K for payment HFL must  assume liability for Mr Ks repayments and pay 
the third-party company to discharge Mr Ks debt.
I invited Mr K and HFL to respond  to my provisional decision. They both did.
In summary,  Mr K responded  to say that E had focused on getting the service agreement 
and the loan signed rather than on the needs  of his children. The 14-day cooling off period 
was not long enough to allow  him to check  if the service agreement was suitable for his 
children. Hed been  led to believe by E that the laptop was part of the deal he had with it. 
Mr K also repeated his earlier stance  about misrepresentation and breach of contract. 
In short,  HFL explained  that Mr Ks children took a test by themselves to establish their 
current level of learning against the National Curriculum. It then added It is therefore the 
children themselves (through their results) that determine the start point on the programme 
(i.e. the first Module  required). HFL also suggested once the start point is sorted the next 
question is how many of the relevant modules do the parents want  to buy. HFL suggested  
naturally that is decided  by how much the parent  wants to spend.
Further, HFL explained the numbering  for the modules in the service agreement. It told us 
Each Module equates  to a School-Year  Course so 2.4 would be Key stage 2 year 4, 2.5 
would be key stage  2 year 5 and so on.
Ref: DRN51001075HFL added that E had chatted to Mr K and his wife in May 2018. It thought they had given us 
an inaccurate  picture of what  was said. It said Mrs K had told E that her eldest child was 
overwhelmed that is why she did not use the service as much as she could have done. E 
also suggested that Mr Ks children didnt have an established routine for using the service  
and so it offered  to help them set up a study routine. 
We showed Mr Ks response to HFL and vice versa. After which both Mr K and HFL sent us 
in follow-up responses.
In brief, Mr K reiterated with greater detail his earlier stance. He indicated that he had not 
been happy  with the service provided by E or the products, far from it. But since he felt he 
had no way out he tried to make  the best of it by working with E. Mr K told us he had turned 
to the school that had introduced E to him, but it was unable to help. He told us other parents 
who had taken out a contract  with E were  in the same boat, that is unhappy,  complaining, 
wanting to leave the contract and getting nowhere.
In outline, HFL suggested before Mr K entered into the contract, there  had been  a no 
purchase required  telephone call to set things up. When E asked how the kids were doing it 
was told according to it, one child struggles whereas  the other copes well. It explained the 
situation further by saying:
Our records show that from the assessed start points, the eldest  child did not reach, let 
alone complete  the level that the child would have been learning in school. As previously 
mentioned, when we first arranged a home visit with the family by telephone, we were  
informed the eldest child was struggling.  From that and the assessments completed by the 
child, it showed we were required to start them at an earlier stage to ensure they had a full 
understanding of topics  leading  up to what they were learning at school at the time, as the 
eldest child unfortunately never reached  the level they were  at school at the time, they would 
not have been able to gain a full benefit from their programme.
In light of the above, we feel that the Financial Ombudsman Services  decision that the 
customers first child couldnt use after a year  and the following year she moved to year 8 
and could no longer benefit  from the contact to be incorrect  as had the family  continued  to 
use the programme  as recommended, they would have benefitted  from it.
HFL didnt  accept that E hadnt called when it said it would.
my findings
I thank both Mr K and HFL for their responses  to my provisional decision. Ive considered 
again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular Ive reviewed the complete file again  and 
revisited my provisional decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN51001076Mr K and HFL have  very different perspectives on what happened  here.  Specifically, they 
dont agree about what happened during key times, such as when  the service  contract  was 
set up, and what happened when  Mr K, Mrs K and E had chats after the contract started.
As I said in my provisional decision where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I had reached  my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I considered is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It has been particularly  helpful that each of the parties took the time to set out their views on 
the reasoning  in my provisional decision and the redress which I proposed in my provisional  
decision, so that I have  been able to gain a fuller understanding of their respective positions 
and concerns about the conclusions and the proposed redress.
In essence Mr Ks stance  is that there was both misrepresentation at the time he entered 
into the service contract and breach of contract  because he never got the services  and 
goods he contracted to buy. He suggests E sold him a package  which  was meant  to meet  
his childrens need and those needs  were based on the year group that each  child was in 
and was going to be in throughout the duration  of the contract. Further,  he tells us that far 
from getting the ongoing support he should  have got he got broken promises  to call the 
children when agreed and this was a breach of contract.
Whereas HFLs stance  is that Mr K selected  the starting point for the contract, in the sense 
that his eldest child was so far behind in her attainment that she needed to work  on modules 
that related to school years that she had already completed. HFL suggests  that Mr K was 
fully aware of this because this was explained to him before he agreed to the contract. In 
addition, it does not accept that there  is any record of the teachers  E employed agreeing to 
sessions by phone and then not calling when they should have done. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr K has rights under Section 75 and Section 56 if 
E misrepresented the contract to him. Added  to which Mr K also has rights under Section 75 
if the contract was breached. And I can fairly  and reasonably hold HFL responsible for this.
It seems  everyone accepts that the contract  covered school years 3-7 and lasted for ten 
years. HFL tells us that Mr Ks daughter was behind her actual school year in ability when 
the contract  started. It is implicit  in what HFL has told us that it is saying Mr Ks daughter was 
assessed as having the ability  of a year 3 child when she was in year 7. Even if I accepted  
that this is correct, this still means  she only was going to benefit from five years  of a ten-year 
contract. I accept this is more than the one year of benefit I mentioned in my provisional 
decision. But the underlying point is the same. Mr Ks daughter was not going to benefit  
throughout the whole  of the life of the contract. 
Mr Ks son was in year 5 when the contract started. There is no suggestion that his ability  
was anything other than year 5. So, he was only going to benefit from three years of a ten-
year contract. Im not persuaded that Mr K would  have taken out a ten-year contract in these 
circumstances.
Moreover, to be persuaded by HFLs position,  I would have to accept  that Mr K knowingly 
entered into the contract on the basis that the modules he had bought did not line up with 
the school years his children were in. This does not tally up with the sense of consternation 
Mr K has shown  in his submissions to us, as if this is the first time he was hearing this was 
the deal. I realise  that Mr K could have  forgotten he had this conversation  but given how 
Ref: DRN51001077invested and engaged  he appears to be in his childrens  education  I dont find that likely.  In 
other words, I dont think that a parent who pays for extra  tuition for his children is going to 
easily forget what he agreed to pay for.
The numbering of the modules may well follow the pattern that HFL told us about. But how 
Mr K would have known that without an explanation  it is not clear. Certainly, there  is no such  
explanation in the agreement itself. So, I dont think the information HFL has sent about  this 
explains how Mr K might  have known by looking at the agreement that the modules he was 
buying did not line up with the school years that his children were in. 
I dont doubt that Mrs K and E had the sort of friendly conversations  HFL has recounted.  But 
that doesnt mean Mr K was satisfied and has now changed his tune. Rather,  I think  it was a 
case of Mr and Mrs K making the best of the situation they thought they had to accept.
For all of these reasons I am satisfied that the service contract was misrepresented to Mr K 
both for the reasons I set out here and the reasons I went  through  in my provisional  decision.
Im not going  to look at the part of the complaint about breach of contract. I dont need to do 
so. I say this because the redress I would give if I were to uphold that part of the complaint 
would be the same as I have already  given.
Im mindful that the service contract is now with a third-party supplier rather  than E. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision there  is a possibility, in principle that the supplier is 
going to ask Mr K for payment under the service  contract. If it does I have asked HFL to pay 
that supplier. I want to make it clear that HFL must  make any such payment promptly so that 
the supplier has no cause to ask the credit reference  agencies to mark any negative 
information about late or missed payments on Mr Ks credit file. 
For the reasons  I have  gone through, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Honeycomb  Finance Limited must:
Refund any payments  that Mr K has made towards the loan other than the £151.16 
for the first year of the agreement.  It must  also pay interest on this refund at the rate 
of 8% simple per year.  The interest to run from the date the payments were  made  
until the date of settlement. *
Cancel the loan contract with Mr K with nothing  further owed by him.
Contact the credit  reference agencies and ask them  to remove any information it has 
asked them to register on Mr Ks credit file about  the loan.
Contact the third-party company about  the service contract  and ask it to agree to not 
pursue Mr K for payment for the service contract.  If, however, the third-party company 
chases Mr K for payment HFL must  assume liability for Mr Ks repayments and pay 
the third-party company to discharge Mr Ks debt and it must do so within the 
timescales that the third-party stipulates.
*If HFL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate  
Ref: DRN51001078showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5100107