K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Legal & General  (Unit  Trust Managers) Limited has refused to process  
his request to withdraw £1,000 from his trust account.
background
Mr N said:
The account was opened and secured through his bank so why he should be 
required to release personal  information to L&G that it wasnt  originally privy to?
L&G violated his confidentiality and data protection rights  by sending private, 
confidential data and financial documents to his previous address despite him 
instructing it not to. This placed  him at risk of considerable  harm
L&G unreasonably withheld  his money based on terms and conditions  which  werent 
disclosed which has caused  him distress and extra  work to find out where his money 
was being held and caused  him to miss out on financial opportunities
It would  be for his bank and not L&G to ask for any security  details
He wants L&G to pay interest for the period it deprived him of this money and reimburse  him 
for losses and lost financial opportunities. He also wants it to assign a financial security 
advisor to ensure all old details are scrapped  and new details are processed and authorised 
across secure financial bodies.
He also says that L&G must take visible measures to deal with anything that might happen 
now or in the future to that leads to access of his credentials and sensitive data.
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. In his view it shouldnt be upheld.
He explained  that L&G had already apologised and paid £70 for the trouble and upset 
caused for wrongly sending correspondence  on one occasions - to his previous  address. 
He said that L&G was entitled and required  to satisfy itself that Mr N was who he said he 
was before paying the funds over to ensure that it was paying the money to him rather than 
someone posing as Mr N. Given this, it was not unreasonable for L&G to ask for documents  
to verify Mr Ns identity, particularly as it said that Mr N declined  to inform it of his new 
address. While he appreciated  that Mr N didnt take out the investment directly  with L&G this 
didnt mean  that it didnt  have to verify his identity whenever he contacted  it or sought  to 
make a withdrawal.
 
He said this service had no power  to require a business to appoint a financial security 
advisor or to take the extensive measures Mr N described.
Mr N didnt agree, and said:
L&G had not been sincere in its apology, and their actions illustrated this
It had not posted online warning signs of their online withdrawal policy  change
It had not been truthful on the whereabouts of his requested  transaction  in the very 
first instance
Ref: DRN54633142If hed asked L&G to pay into an account  it was not previously  aware then its policy 
would understandable,  but this wasnt the case
There are three levels of security needed  to make online withdrawal transactions
Less than a year after L&G processed  his usual  transaction request into his Halifax 
account he sought to make  the same request again. He assumed  this had gone 
through. Around six months later, after repeated requests, he learnt  that it hadnt. In 
that period he made many  enquiries;  all but one indicated that his request was on its 
way
 It was only after this that L&G said it had changed its online withdrawal policy
The adjudicator acknowledged that L&G had previously  paid money into the same  bank but 
reiterated that L&G had a legal and regulatory duty to comply with the rules  and regulations  
on the prevention  of money laundering and to make sure it pays money to the correct 
person. He said that this service wouldnt comment on how a business  chose to comply with 
these.
He said that he knew of only one occasion  where  L&G had incorrectly  written  to Mr Ns 
former address and he saw no reason to doubt  the sincerity of its apology. He understood 
why Mr N believed that L&G may have written  to him at his former  address more than once 
but said this was a new allegation  that L&G hadnt been given the chance to answer  this new 
allegation. So he advised  Mr N to complain about that to L&G before we could look into it.
The adjudicator said that if Mr N believed there were other data breaches then it would be to 
the Information Commissioners Office to consider.
Mr N didnt agree, and said:
Is it not a practice of the Financial Ombudsman Service to be aware of and to 
monitor new data handling  regulation  compliance  by financial organisations? 
Supplying L&G with extra sensitive information  which it requires to release his money 
has nothing to do with money laundering and more to do with unauthorised  profiling - 
it is abuse. This is especially so since he never received its new terms and 
conditions, and its never supplied him with any new privacy handling policy (even  
when asked)
L&G asked for picture identity information  which provides it with biological 
information. His bank  can verify his passport  and biological  information in branch. He 
sees no reason to supply  this to L&G 
A great loss of privacy is being masked behind this so-called 'money  laundering and 
data protection  obligations'.  It remains an insidious  practice  given the history of 
transactions that have occurred
If it was fair for L&G insist on further documentation before releasing  the proceeds,  
should it be assumed  that previous transactions were made to the wrong person?
If his money is being held in a non-interest earning account then L&G should  have  no 
problem in showing him details
Ref: DRN54633143It remains a dangerous precedent to be forced to send the data requested  since  that 
data requires him to share his race and colour.  He finds  the ease with which the 
Financial Ombudsman Service supports the providing of such  extremely sensitive 
information in order to bring such  a case extremely alarming
The data breach means he doesnt want L & G to possess any new sensitive data 
information it did not hold originally. Neither should  he be forced, as the situation is 
now, to remain with this organisation
The data breach shows that L & G did/does  not take his sensitive  data security  
seriously. One data breach is more than sufficient  to warrant concerns  over any new 
information sought by L & G under the guise of fraud
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for exactly the same  reasons.  This is why I have  summarised his responses in detail, 
and have therefore not repeated them in this section of my decision.
That said,  I do fully understand Mr Ns concerns and frustrations. Financial businesses,  like 
most/many public-facing  companies, now seem to require ever-greater and more complex 
verification details even from long-standing customers  wishing  to carry out transactions 
theyve been making  for years. These  demands  often require customers to devote 
considerable time and effort to obtaining what seems unnecessary  information, and none  of 
this is compensated  for. From a common-sense perspective much of this seems  completely 
excessive and unwarranted. For example, one can ring ones bank, spend many  minutes  
passing a host of security questions, and then be forced to respond to all the same 
questions again  if the advisor says they need  to ring back  two minutes later.  Anyone would 
be frustrated by this.
However, there are very good reasons  for these greatly-increased security  checks as online 
fraudsters and hackers have become infinitely more  sophisticated  in obtaining data which  
would, in the past, have  been sufficient to pass the normal security checks. Indeed many 
consumer organisations are calling for more  rather than less online and other checks  to try 
and limit the risk of fraudulent transactions. At this service  we are seeing  a large increase in 
complaints about  internet and other types  of banking fraud  where the fraudster has, for 
varying reasons,  been able to pass even  the most stringent identity checks.  And in a number 
of cases ombudsmen have concluded that a business should  have done  more to be 
absolutely certain  that the person making  the request was the account  holder and that their 
signature was genuine  etc.
Crucially, it is up to each individual business to decide what type of, and how many, checks  it 
requires in order to meet its myriad  of regulatory  requirements, which  go far beyond money 
laundering. This services role and remit is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook, and it is clear that we are not empowered to instruct  businesses how to do this. 
This is part of their overall right to run their businesses as they see fit within  the regulatory 
framework. So L&G is fully entitled to decide  on how to interpret its legal and regulatory 
requirements. I have seen no evidence to suggest  that its operation of this remit is manifestly  
unfair, unreasonable or designed to disadvantage particular customers.
Ref: DRN54633144For these reasons I do not agree  with Mr Ns view about what  L&G should have done 
differently, or that it did anything substantially wrong.
I also agree  with the adjudicator about  the former address issue. I have seen no persuasive  
evidence to indicate that L&G sent documents to Mr Ns former  address on more  than one 
occasion. I therefore dont agree that the evidence indicates a fundamental flaw in its 
systems or that it should pay more  than its already offered in lieu of this issue.
As I do not believe L&G has been wrong  to insist  on the various identity checks  it follows that 
I dont agree that it should pay compensation for any potential  loss of interest or other 
investment opportunity.
I have considered all of Mr Ns additional  points but in my view the adjudicator addressed  
these, and I share his view about them.  Overall,  I am satisfied L&G was entitled to act as it 
did so I do not accept it should  compensate Mr N for the time and efforts hes spending  
pursuing this issue  or making this complaint.
Finally, I cannot reasonably ask L&G to waive its security procedures  in order  for Mr N to 
withdraw this money so he will need  to comply with these in order to close his account.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463314