K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  alongside a store  
card.
A retailer sold the store card and PPI, but AXA France IARD (AXA), the insurer, has 
accepted responsibility for the way the policy was sold.
background
In June 1986, Mr M applied for a store card. AXA say that at the same time, PPI was added.
Mr M thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt  think it should be upheld. In particular, 
our adjudicator didnt  think  Mr M had ever been  charged  anything  for PPI  so he hadnt lost 
out.
Mr M didnt  agree. As Mr M was still dissatisfied,  the complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time that has passed  AXA no longer has a copy  of the original credit agreement  
Mr M likely signed.  I dont  find this surprising as the event  happened over 30 years ago.
So while AXA has assumed  there  was PPI, it isnt actually known whether PPI was added at 
the point the store card was taken, or at a later date, or whether PPI was even  sold at all. 
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about PPI should  be upheld, Id 
expect any compensation to put the consumer in the financial position  theyd  be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
The PPI was attached to a store card. So any premiums would be charged to the account, 
and Mr M would repay these extra charges, with interest, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the card. 
But in Mr Ms case, it doesnt  look as though  AXA ever charged any premiums  to his store  
card. 
AXA has provided a copy of the lifetime  data it holds for the store card.  The records show 
that no PPI premiums were ever charged to the account. 
I appreciate that Mr Ms store card was taken in 1986, - so understandably  Mr M is unsure 
whether AXAs records go back that far. But typically, AXA did keep records of what  its 
consumers were charged in total over the lifetime of a store  card. In this case,  there isnt 
anything to suggest that Mr M was charged for PPI.
Ref: DRN59761292And Im mindful that Mr M hasnt been  able to show he paid anything towards this policy 
either. But again, this isnt surprising as we are talking about something  that happened  over 
30 years  ago. 
So in this case, and based on the limited information available  I think its likely that Mr M 
wasnt ever charged for PPI. 
This means  that even if something  had gone wrong  when the retailer  sold Mr M the policy,  it 
doesnt appear Mr M has lost out financially because of this.
As there is nothing to show Mr M ever paid anything  towards the PPI, it doesnt appear he 
has lost out financially because of the sale of the policy. 
It follows that I dont uphold his complaint and I dont make any award.
Should Mr M provide  any information to AXA at a later date, that shows he was indeed  
charged for PPI on his store  card,  AXA should  consider this.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5976129