K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Gain Capital UK Limited has mis-sold is a contract for difference  
(CFD) account.
background
Mr R opened two accounts with Gain Capital Limited. The first account was opened  on        
14 June 2010  and closed on 16 September 2016. The second account (which  is subject  to 
the complaint)  was opened on 28 May 2014  and closed on 17 August 2016. An ombudsman 
at our service has already  considered if we can look at the account which was opened in 
2010. So with that in mind  I wont be commenting further on this aspect  of Mr Rs complaint. 
My decision  will be based on the account which was opened in 2014.
Mr R applied to open his second  account  with Gain capital via an online application. In       
Mr Rs complaint letter to our service hes said that he was inexperienced and Gains Capital 
had coached him on how to complete the application  process to ensure he was able to open 
an account with it. He says he wasnt aware  what an execution only account was and this 
was not explained to him at the time. He says if hed been  aware  he would have ensured he 
opened an alternative type of account where  he could have received advice.
Mr R says Gain Capital failed to warn him that these types of accounts were risky and failed 
to identify that he wasnt a suitable  candidate  to open such  an account.  He  says he was a 
customer service  agent and didnt have the appropriate experience. Because  of this Mr R 
has said it has impacted his financial situation  significantly.
Gains Capital has said in order  for Mr R to have opened a second account he would  have 
needed to complete a second appropriateness test to assess if he had the knowledge  and 
experience to trade. And based on the answers  Mr R provided he was deemed  to be 
appropriate to trade.  It has said between 1 May 2014 and 30 June 2014  it received 68 calls 
from Mr R. only three  of these calls related  to the opening of the account.  It went  on to say it 
was satisfied having listened to the calls Mr R was not coached into answering the questions 
to enable him to open the account. It has also said that Mr R was given a copy of the terms 
and conditions of the agreement and the risk warning explained that Gain Capital doesnt 
offer investments  advice and explains what execution only means.
Mr R remained  unhappy with Gain Capitals response. So he brought the case  to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint  but she didnt  recommend  that it be 
upheld. To summarise she said she had seen a copy of Mr Rs application form. He 
confirmed he had experience trading shares  on execution-only basis regularly in the last 12 
months. And that he had traded CFDs spread bets, futures, options or FX on execution only 
basis in the last 12 months. She also considered Mr Rs trading history with the first account 
he had opened  with Gain Capital. With that in mind she concluded she didnt think it was 
unreasonable that Gain Capital decided the account was appropriate for Mr R.
She also said she could  see Gain Capital had provided the appropriate risk warnings  and  
Mr R had agreed he understood them,  along with explaining what  execution only meant.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said Gains Capital had left the box 
where it asks if he is a professional blank. This shows it wasnt appropriate  for him to open 
the account. He didnt  feel the investigator  had taken  into consideration the hard sale of the 
Ref: DRN56120852accounts or the fact execution only wasnt explained adequately. He says he was 
inexperienced and he felt it should have been.  So the case was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having do so, I agree with the investigator 
for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
opening of the account
Gain Capital provided  an execution only service. As a result it wasnt required to assess 
whether CFDs were  suitable for Mr R. But under the regulators Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook COBS  10, it had to establish  whether this type of trading was appropriate for   
Mr R. This meant it needed  to decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and 
experience to understand the particular risks of spread betting. On top of this it needed to 
explain how CFDs work  and the risks involved,  and ensure appropriate risk warnings were 
provided alongside the service agreement.
Before opening  an account Mr R would have bene asked to agree to the declaration.  This 
declaration confirms he has read and understood the terms of the agreement  (in which 
outline execution  only) and explicitly asks if he had read and understood the risk warning. I 
have reviewed the risk warning which says:
 
..Please read the Risk Warning Notice  carefully  to understand the risks of trading on a 
margin or leverage basis. You should  not deal in our contracts  unless you understand and 
accept the risks of margin trading. Trading in these products may not be suitable for 
everyone.
In order for Mr R to have proceeded to open  the account he would have needed to agree to 
the declaration.  As Mr R successfully opened an account I am aware  he accepted the 
declaration. So with this is mind  I am satisfied the risks involves with trading CFDs were 
clearly explained  to Mr R. Upon proceeding with his application Mr R would have been 
asked several questions in order for Gain Capital to assess  if the account was appropriate 
for him. As previously explained, Mr R opened  his first account with Gain  Capital in 2010. 
But despite  this Mr R was still asked to complete the appropriateness  test for his second  
account which he opened in 2014.  
Having reviewed the online application  Im satisfied Mr R confirmed he understood he could  
lose more than his initial deposit. And those small movements in the market  can result  in 
trades incurring larger  profits  or losses. Mr R confirmed he had frequently traded spread 
bets, CFDs , futures options, margins foreign exchanges in the past 12 months on an 
execution only basis. Consequently  I dont think it was unreasonable for Gain  Capital  to have 
relied upon Mr R providing accurate information, especially given the fact Mr R had agreed 
he was aware of the risks involved and had previously opened an account  with it before. 
With that in mind I am satisfied that Gain Capital did test if Mr R had the appropriate 
knowledge and experience to open this type of account. And based  on the information Mr R 
provided at the time I dont think it was unreasonable for Gain Capital to conclude he did 
have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in trading.
execution only
Ref: DRN56120853Ive read the service  agreement and Im satisfied that it explains in bold that Gain  Capital 
doesnt provide  investment advice. And explains that the service it provides is on an 
execution only basis and that this means Mr R was responsible for his own trading 
decisions. So as explained above  Mr R had to confirm  he had read and understood this 
information before he opened the account.  Also as part of the questions Mr R was asked to 
assess his experience, he was asked how frequently he had traded spread bets and CFDs 
on an execution only basis in the last 12 months. Mr R confirms frequently. So I dont think 
its fair to conclude that Gain Capital didnt provide this information  in a clear  and transparent  
way to Mr R. And it had relied  on the information Mr R provided to make  the decision  of 
whether an account  of this nature was suitable  for him. .If Mr R was unsure what this meant  
for him, he could have  asked Gain Capital to clarify at any time.
hard sale
Mr R has said at the time he opened the account Gain Capital was telling him how to answer 
the questions  to ensure his application was successful. Ive reviewed the information Gain 
Capital has provided  regarding the calls made and received from the two numbers Mr R 
provided. It has provided a call log showing calls made at the time Mr R opened the account  
and other  calls surrounding the opening of the account. I cant  see any calls made from his 
partners number or his number  (prior to him opening the account  on 28 May 2014). So while 
I dont dispute  Mr Rs version of events,  I cant be certain what  was discussed  (if anything)  
prior to him opening. I have listened  to calls on the day Mr R opened  the account. And 
having done so, I havent heard  any hard  sale techniques or anything to suggest the 
advisors at Gain Capital told Mr R how to answer the questions to ensure he was able to 
open an account. And I am satisfied Mr R was eager to trade I say this because I am aware 
that Mr R had opened an account in 2010  and also tried to open a further account in 2016. 
This wasnt successful due to an ongoing dispute  between Mr R and Gain  Capital. So even if 
Gain Capital had said the account wasnt appropriate for Mr R, I think  on balance bearing  in 
mind the information  Mr R provided about  his experience  and financial situation,  he would 
have gone ahead anyway (after reading the risk warning).
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsma
Ref: DRN5612085