K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  didnt deal properly with a claim he made  on 
his motor insurance policy after an accident.
background
In June 2018 Mr B followed  another car onto a roundabout.  He says the other driver stopped 
so suddenly that he had no time to stop.  His car went  into the rear of her car. A witness  
confirmed these facts  to Ageas. But the witness also said Mr B had accepted at the scene 
that his insurer  would  have to pay for the damage  - and had even offered to do so himself.  
Mr B was injured in the incident and his car was written-off. Later on, Mr B said he wasnt  
happy that Ageas had settled the claim in the other  drivers favour.  He thought  the accident 
had been staged. And he thought the other driver  should take some blame for having 
stopped for no reason on a roundabout.   
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He thought  Ageas had acted 
reasonably. He said it had given due consideration to all the facts  before deciding it wouldnt 
be able to defend the other drivers claim in court. The investigator  noted that Mr B had later 
said his premium had almost doubled. He said Mr B would have to decide whether or not to 
take that issue further.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Under the policy Ageas has the right to decide  how to deal with any claim. We would only 
interfere if we thought it hadnt acted reasonably in making its decision. 
In this case I think its clear that Ageas considered all the available facts. The file notes show 
that it made  every effort to obtain any CCTV evidence but was unable to do so. It seems the 
camera Mr B saw at the scene wasnt a traffic camera. Ageas noted  that the witness 
statement partly  supported Mr Bs account  but that the witness  also said Mr B had, in 
effect, accepted  responsibility at the scene of the accident. 
The other insurer held Mr B fully at fault. Ageas decided it couldnt  argue otherwise. It 
thought the main issue was that Mr B should  have kept a safe distance from the car in front.  
Ageas thought that had he done so, he wouldnt have hit the car, despite the other driver 
stopping suddenly. It said the Highway Code advises drivers never get so close to the car in 
front that they cant stop safely. It said in its experience  a judge would find in the other  
drivers favour.  I think Ageas reached  a reasonable conclusion. And it said there  was no 
evidence that the accident was staged, as Mr B had suggested. 
Ageas based  its decision  largely on the account  of Mr B and the witnesss account. It says it 
didnt request an accident report  from the other driver as it only does that when the facts are 
complex.  Ageas thought the facts were clear  enough and that the witness  statement wasnt  
wholly in Mr Bs favour. I can see why Ageas reached that conclusion, although I also 
understand why Mr B disagreed with it. 
Ref: DRN56314122The witness  agreed  that the other driver had stopped on the roundabout  and had apologised 
for doing so. In her opinion, the other  driver was to blame for the accident. Mr B thinks there 
was no reason for her to stop  hence his suspicion that the accident was staged. But the 
witness also said the other driver paused  to change direction, not that she slammed  on her 
brakes for no reason, as Mr B told Ageas. And I think the crucial fact is that Ageas had to 
take into account that Mr B had a duty to stay a safe distance behind  other  cars. According  
to the witness, that seems  to be something that Mr B acknowledged  at the time. Hes since  
said the law is antiquated. Although  thats  his opinion, I doubt  a court  would agree.
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that it had to settle the claim as it did. 
I know Mr B was keen to have the chance to argue  his case  before a court.  But insurers 
dont usually engage in legal proceedings unless  there seems  to be a reasonable prospect 
of success. I can see why Ageas thought that wasnt the case here.  . 
Its clear that Mr B remains  convinced that Ageas didnt handle  the claim reasonably,  so I 
know hell be very disappointed with my decision.  But having taken everything into account, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5631412