K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that QIC Europe  Ltd has acted unfairly  and unreasonably  by declining his 
claim under a public  liability insurance policy. He wants  the claim dealt with.
background
Mr A was a sole trader and was working  on a site, where a subcontractor suffered an 
accident in 2018. A claim was made against  Mr A and he asked  QIC to deal with the matter 
under his public  liability  insurance policy, taken out through a broker.  QIC declined the claim. 
It said that the terms and conditions  of the policy required Mr A to check  subcontractors  had 
appropriate insurance and to keep  a written record. QIC said that Mr A had told it that hed 
never checked the insurance of the subcontractor  involved  due to the long relationship  that 
existed. QIC also pointed  out that Mr A didnt tell it about the accident  for about four months,  
which was also a breach of the terms and conditions of the policy which  required notification  
within 30 days.
Mr A complained to QIC, saying that he hadnt expected a claim to be made against him and 
wasnt aware of the terms and conditions of the policy. QIC said as Mr A had breached  the 
terms and conditions of the policy, it was fair and reasonable  to decline the claim.  It thought  
Mr A shouldve read the policy  or asked his broker to explain. QIC also felt that the delay in 
notifying it about the accident prejudiced its position  as it wasnt  able to collect  evidence at 
the time and had received  evidence  that Mr A had asked  a witness to lie about the accident.
Mr A complained to us. The investigators view was that QIC wasnt  at fault. He said the 
terms and conditions of the policy had been fairly  and reasonably applied, which led to the 
decline of Mr As claim. 
Mr A disagreed. He said he wanted an ombudsmans view and said he had discussed orally  
the subcontractors insurance (though there wasnt any written record  of this). The 
investigator said that the failure to have  a written record  was enough to breach the term.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When I refer to QIC, Im also referring to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that QIC has a responsibility  to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Requirement to ensure  subcontractors have insurance and keep  a written record
The policy does clearly  set out a requirement that for a claim to be accepted, Mr A must 
check all the subcontractors he used had appropriate insurance and he had to keep a written  
record of this. Mr A accepts that he didnt comply.
I noted that there was some confusion about the impact of Section  11 of the Insurance  Act 
2015 and the wording  of the policy on this point.  Broadly, the law automatically imports  a rule 
that an insurer cant decline  a claim due to breach of a term that could increase the risk of 
loss if the insured shows that in reality  the increase hasnt happened. This law applies 
regardless of the wording of the policy. 
Ref: DRN56352822Normally, I wouldnt  view a term about the insurance of subcontractors as affecting  the 
increase of the risk of loss (dependent on the facts)  the risk of loss is the event giving rise 
to the claim, not the amount to be paid. Section 11 doesnt apply to such  a term.
But interestingly the preamble to the section that sets out this term says Conditions may 
specify circumstances whereby non-compliance will mean that You will not receive payment 
for a claim. However You will be covered and We will pay Your claim if You are able to prove 
that the non-compliance with these  conditions could not have increased the risk of the loss 
which actually occurred  in the circumstances in which it occurred. These words are general  
wording for the whole section.
When I turn to the actual term about  subcontractors  insurance, after setting out what  is 
required from Mr A, the term goes on to say if this specific  term is breached,  QIC will not 
accept a claim. There is effectively a conflict between the general wording in the preamble 
and the specific  wording of the term. There are rules about  the interpretation of legal 
documents  one rule is when there is a conflict between general wording and specific 
wording, the specific  wording is to be followed.
In Mr As case, this means that the failure to comply with this term allows  QIC to reject  the 
claim. And looking at all the circumstances and evidence, I think  QIC acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim.
Late notification
The investigators view didnt deal with this issue in his view, but its an important part of this 
complaint. The policy requires Mr A to tell QIC immediately  or certainly  within 30 days of the 
event that could give rise to a claim. Mr A didnt comply. And I dont accept that this is a term 
that could increase the risk of loss as the loss wouldve occurred  by the time any notification  
was required.
But I still have to think about whats fair and reasonable, and bear in mind the law. The 
courts have  found that small business  owners,  such as Mr A, might reasonably take a 
different view about what might give rise to a claim. Mr A says that the subcontractor  blamed 
himself for the accident and told Mr A not to worry about it. Given  the circumstances, I can 
see that the subcontractor  is likely  to be found to bear some responsibility  and Mr A certainly 
thinks so. The courts have found such comments by those  who suffered from similar 
accidents to be a good reason to delay notification. I cant make  a finding that the 
subcontractor did tell Mr A not to worry but I can see why Mr A thought there wouldnt be a 
claim, even  though he was incorrect.
QIC says the delay caused  it prejudice.  It says Mr As memory has become blurred, 
witnesses have turned hostile  and evidence has become stale.  But I anticipate that Mr As 
memory was likely to be unclear for several  reasons unconnected to time, and the witnesses 
were always  likely to become hostile  the delay didnt cause this to happen and such claims 
take years. And the circumstances  surrounding  the accident were  not complex requiring 
specialist expert investigation  at the time.
Im not persuaded that the refusal  to accept the claim  due to late notification  was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  But given Ive found  that the other reason 
for refusal  was fair and reasonable,  this finding doesnt assist  Mr A.
Ref: DRN56352823my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In response to my provisional decision,  QIC said that it had nothing  to add while Mr A didnt 
respond. In light of this, and having considered  the matter again, I remain of the view as set 
out in my provisional  decision, and confirm  that its my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 27 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5635282