K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about National House-Building Councils (NHBC)  decision to decline  cover 
for a claim he made on a new house  warranty.
background
Mr S purchased a property which was part way through a 10 year building warranty  provided 
by NHBC when he bought it. 
Mr S made a claim to NHBC for damage  caused by condensation  in the loft space of the 
property. It declined to cover the claim.  It said the warranty  didnt cover this type of damage  
after the first two years of the warranty. 
Mr S complained to NHBC and, when it didnt change its decision, to this service. Our 
investigator reviewed his complaint but didnt  think NHBC  had done anything wrong. She 
said the warranty was clear that it didnt cover this type of damage after the second  year.
Mr S remained dissatisfied. He accepted that a claim for new issues  occurring after the 
second year wouldnt  be successful. But he said the condensation issue had been causing  
damage within the first two years of the warranty period and the damage  he was claiming for 
was a continuation of the problem which hadnt  been fixed. Hes asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the warranty  and it appears  there are two separate sections which could apply  
here. The first Ill consider  is a claim under a section which  provides cover  for issues which 
occur between 3 and 10 years after the property has been built.  Specifically, it says NHBC 
will pay:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical Damage 
caused by a Defect in any of the following  parts of the house,  bungalow,  maisonette  or flat 
and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common Parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non load-bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
External render and external vertical  tile hanging
Load-bearing parts  of the roof
Tile and slate coverings to pitched  roofs
Ceilings
Load-bearing parts  of the floors
Staircases and internal floor decking  and screeds where these fail to support normal  
loads
Retaining walls  necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or 
maisonette, its garage
or other permanent outbuilding
Ref: DRN57801962Double or triple glazing panes to external  windows and doors
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible
Theres no dispute that the damage to Mr S flat has been caused  by condensation in the loft 
space of the property.  Its argued that this is because  of a defect in the construction of the 
property in that the material  used  when constructing the roof is inappropriate. But, in the list 
of parts  of the property which are covered under this section of the warranty,  theres  no 
mention of the roof itself. Its a well established  principle that in order  to make  a successful 
claim, a policyholder  needs to prove that their loss has occurred because  of an insured 
reason. A defect  to the roof isnt listed as being  covered  by the warranty.  So theres  no cover 
for this claim under this section.
The other relevant  section  of the policy is the one Mr S argues his claim should be covered  
under. This section  says that in the first two years after construction, the builder  of the 
property is liable Within a reasonable time and at his own expense,  to put right any Defect 
or Damage to your Home  or its Common Parts which is notified to him within  this period of 
the cover . The builder  of Mr S property went into liquidation within this period. The warranty  
says NHBC will pay the costs  of a claim under this section if the builder is insolvent.
 
Repairs to Mr S property  were carried out under this section before Mr S purchased  the 
property in 2017. And as the builder  was no longer trading, NHBC covered those costs.  Mr S 
says his claim should be covered under this section as it is a reoccurrence of the previous 
problem which hasnt  been properly rectified, and the problem hasnt been rectified. NHBC 
says this isnt the case. It argues the damage  being caused by moisture was to a different 
part of the property to where  the damage  it had previously covered repairs  to. Its opinion  is 
that the damage isnt being  caused  by the same problem. 
I can see from the evidence available to me that NHBC has previously covered claims for 
damage to the property  caused by moisture, the claims its covered have been for damage  
to other  parts of the property. The layout of the property is significant here. The current 
damage is in a room  directly below the loft space in which  the condensation  has occurred. 
The previous  damage  was in a different room on the floor below.
I havent seen  any evidence to indicate  the previous damage, on the floor below,  was 
caused by the same  condensation issue in the loft space which  is directly  above the room 
which has now been damaged. And so Im not persuaded the damage now being  claimed  is 
a continuation of the problem NHBC has previously covered.  As this claim has been made 
more than two years  after the property was constructed, a new claim under this section 
wouldnt be successful. 
Ref: DRN57801963my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780196