K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about QIC Europe  Ltds decision to refuse dealing with a claim under 
a home  insurance  policy.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a specialist  company.
background
Mr and Mrs T bought their home around 2006 and their drainage system was made up of a 
septic tank and soakaway system. At the end of October 2017  they noticed  foul water  
collecting above ground. At the start of November the septic tank was emptied  and pipes 
were found  to be detached and lying at the base  of the tank.  The soakaway system was 
found to have failed too.
Mr and Mrs T sought the services of a specialist company, now representing them in this 
complaint, to assist  their claim to QIC. QIC instructed experts to inspect  and report  on the 
drainage system. The report noted a large area of saturated  ground and a representative for 
Mr and Mrs T was present. The septic tank was emptied and an inspection found  it was of a 
single chamber brick built construction. The lid was found to be rusting, rotting and didnt fit 
properly. The expert said this was demonstrable of poor maintenance as the lid was visible  
above ground.
The pipes in question had been  fitted under the roof of the tank and were,  in the experts  
words, well-protected  and unlikely to have been knocked by any tanker hose. It was found 
that there  had been a previous repair to one of the pipes, which  is described  as poor, 
substandard and not in line with industry  standards. In summary,  a PVC pipe with an 
incorrect diameter for the original clay pipework had been adapted  with a number of slits and 
secured in place  with some form of tape. And it was opined  that the repair had been  within  
the last ten years. 
The experts recommended that the claim should  be rejected on the basis  that;
The original clay pipes  had deteriorated  over time
A repair had taken place in the last ten years, which was poor and not in line with 
industry practice
It was evident that the septic tank hadnt  been maintained  for reasons such as the lid, 
sanitary contents found within the tank and pipes lying at the base of the tank.  
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  disagreed  with QICs expert on almost every  conclusion in the 
report. In summary,  they say the pipe should  be covered as accidental  damage as the 
damage could  only have happened by a tanker  hose  when emptying the septic tank. 
QIC rejected this opinion  based on enquiries made with the company that had been  
identified as regularly  emptying the tank. That company, Ill refer to as C, rejected any 
suggestion that it was responsible. Other information from QICs experts say the landowner 
where the soakaway is situated reported previous  issues with surcharging  and flooding. And 
QIC say that if the damage happened  at the last emptying around March 2017  then it would 
have manifested  far earlier than when Mr and Mrs T say they first observed the problem in 
October. Mr and Mrs T refute these issues.
In conclusion, QIC say the septic tank hadnt  been  maintained as it should have been; it had 
had a previous  repair  carried  out that was bound to fail; the tank had come to the end of its 
Ref: DRN58952992useful life; and Mr and Mrs T hadnt  sufficiently  demonstrated that an insured event had 
occurred.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and wasnt  persuaded that the damage to 
the septic tank was a sudden occurrence  caused  by a tanker hose. She didnt think the 
damage met the policy requirement of accidental  damage and so wasnt persuaded to 
require QIC to pay Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  disagreed  with the investigator;
They took issue with the independence of QICs report
The evidence in support of the claim puts it significantly above  51% probability it 
should be paid;
oDamage is accepted
oThe pipe was accessible to the emptying hose rather  than being  hidden and 
so could have  been struck by the hose
oThe pipe repair was secure such that it was impossible  for anything other 
than an impact to cause the damage
oThe pipe becoming detached was sudden
oThere are no industry standards for repair
oAnd no credible explanation has been put forward  to explain how the QIC say 
might have  caused damage  to a system which had functioned so well for 11 
years.
As the parties couldnt  agree, Mr and Mrs T have asked for an ombudsman  to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The independence of QICs report is not something  that Im concerned about. QIC, like most 
insurers, use specialist companies to provide expert  opinion on the extent and cause of 
damage. Indeed, the representative for Mr and Mrs T is a company that specialises in 
assisting consumers in trying to get their claims relating to septic tanks paid under  an 
insurance policy. This could equally be vulnerable to a perceived bias such  as that which the 
representative implies  against QICs agent.  My role is to look at all the information provided 
and make a decision  based on what is more likely than not. As such, Im able to assess  
possible bias and attach  appropriate weight to the information in reaching an outcome that I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The issue  in this complaint is whether or not the septic tank has suffered accidental  damage 
such that QIC has liability under the policy to put things  right.  
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as;
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. Happens at a specific  time,  and
ii. Was not deliberate,  and
iii. Was caused by something external and identifiable
Ref: DRN58952993What is seemingly accepted is that there  was evidence of a problem with the tank in late 
October 2017. And its accepted that when the tank was inspected in November  2017  pipes 
were found  to be damaged including one having  been repaired at an earlier  point in time 
using what was effectively  a spliced PVC pipe with some form of adhesive  tape.
The main  issues in dispute though are;
How the pipe came to be detached (after  the previous repair)
Whether the detachment was, on the balance of probabilities, caused when emptying 
the tank by being  struck by an emptying  hose
Whether Mr and Mrs T have reasonably maintained the tank
Whether there had been earlier issues with the tank as apparent  in information from 
the landowner.
At some point in time the original dip pipe has become detached  as evidenced by the 
obvious repair job. There is no compelling  evidence as to when that occurred. Its also 
apparent that there was unsuitable debris in the tank such  as grease and sanitary  (wipes) 
deposits. I am satisfied  that such deposits can inhibit the efficient working of the septic  tank 
(source: DEFRA factsheet available online).
Its apparent that the tank has been  regularly emptied although  not that it was regularly 
serviced and so it simply is unknown when  the pipe became detached.
I accept that its possible  the pipe might  have become detached  (after  the plastic tape repair) 
as a result  of impact  with an emptying hose. But I need to be satisfied its more  likely than 
not. Ive thought about all the information carefully and Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs T 
have shown damage in such a way on the balance of probabilities.  I will explain why.
There is information that Im persuaded by showing there were  previous issues  with foul 
water collection  similar to that identified  in October  2017. Here I refer to an email from Mr T 
to QICs agent that there was such an issue around 2010/2011.  And according  to QICs 
agent the landowner of a third party field where  the water  collects  had said there had been 
previous issues. I know that Mr and Mrs Ts representative disputes this but on the 
information Ive seen I accept it as evidence  of previous issues.  So I dont accept  the system 
had been operating without issues for the time Mr and Mrs T had lived in the property.
Those issues may indicate  the pipe had become  detached much earlier than in 2017  there 
is simply no way of knowing. But it is an inescapable conclusion  that the pipe wasnt in its 
original condition being a repair using a spliced PVC pipe on to a clay pipe secured with 
tape. I am persuaded more by QICs agent that this repair was poor and was always  likely to 
fail, as opposed to Mr and Mrs Ts representative  that says it was a secure fit. Im not 
persuaded what was in essence an ill-fitting pipe adapted to fit over a different diameter of 
pipe, and secured  with some sticky plastic tape put the septic  tank in a condition  in keeping  
with the clay and mortar  based fittings  originally installed. I accept it was always likely  to fail 
given the atmospheric and working  conditions of the septic  tank.
Coming back to the policy definition of accidental damage, I am not persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs T have, on the balance of probabilities, shown the damage happened at a specified time 
and that it was caused by something external and identifiable.
Ref: DRN58952994my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5895299