K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him two packaged 
bank accounts,  one called an Additions  account  in 2004 and a second  called an Additions 
Plus account in 2007. Mr L paid monthly  fees for these accounts  and received several  
potential benefits  in return. He says that Barclays  pressured him into taking the accounts  
and didnt tell him about the benefits  clearly. 
Mr L thinks that Barclays should refund him all the fees he paid for both accounts,  plus 
interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ls complaint  and didnt think that 
Barclays had mis-sold either  account  to him. 
Mr L didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ls complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr L and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case  and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr L has banked with Barclays for quite a while.  Barclays  has sent us a summary of its 
account history for Mr L which shows that he: 
opened a fee-free account  in April 1996
changed to the Additions account  in June 2004
changed back to a fee-free account in January 2006
changed to the Additions Plus account  in March 2007
changed back to a fee-free account in August 2009.
(I understand that Mr L closed his last account  with Barclays in 2009 and no longer banks 
with them.  This does not affect this complaint).  
On our questionnaire,  Mr L indicated  that Barclays recommended both accounts to him, and 
Barclays has accepted  that it made these recommendations. This meant that Barclays had 
to tell Mr L about the accounts fairly and clearly and check that they were  a reasonable 
choice for his financial situation at the times it sold them. 
The crux of Mr Ls complaint for both accounts  is that he thinks that Barclays pressured 
him to take them to get an overdraft, but in reality he could get an overdraft with any (other) 
bank including  Barclays,  without paying a fee. Hes also said that Barclays didnt tell him 
about all the benefits of the accounts. Hes added that he had been  in financial hardship and 
Barclays told him that taking the accounts would  improve his credit score. Hes also 
explained that he has suffered from anxiety and depression since 2006.
Ref: DRN54840942Although Mr L has made very similar points  about the way Barclays  sold him both the 
Additions and the Additions Plus account,  the circumstances were  slightly  different on the 
two occasions;  so to make sure I have looked into everything, I have considered them  
separately. However, in both cases neither party has been able to send  us detailed records 
from the time, which isnt surprising given that Barclays sold the accounts to Mr L well over a 
decade ago, so I cant tell for sure what happened. Instead, I have used the evidence 
available to me to decide what is most  likely to have  occurred.
The Additions account
Barclays has told us that it sold this account to Mr L during a phone conversation with 
him and I have no reason to doubt that it did so.
At the time,  the potential  benefits of the account included car breakdown cover, access  
to a legal  helpline and reduced costs for healthcare  for children.  Up to a certain  limit, it 
also allowed customers to overdraw the account  balance without paying interest, and 
charged a lower rate of interest on overdrafts that went over that limit than Barclays  
fee-free accounts.  
I think its highly likely  that Barclays told Mr L about  these benefits  during the phone 
call. After all, it was trying to sell the Additions  account to Mr L and it would have been 
in its own interest to tell him what he might be able to gain. I also think  it probably told 
him how much the account would cost.
Barclays has sent us some of Mr Ls bank  statements from the time and I can see from 
these that Mr L overdrew his account quite frequently and by quite large  amounts. I 
think that potentially  cheaper overdrafts, along with some of the other benefits of the 
account, may have  led Barclays  to recommend  it to him. I think  it was reasonable for 
Barclays to make this recommendation. 
I fully accept that Barclays may have discussed Mr Ls overdraft with him during the 
call at some  length. But Im not convinced that it mis-led  him into thinking that he could 
improve his credit rating just by changing  accounts,  or that he needed to buy the 
Additions account to get an overdraft.
I accept that Mr L has done  his best to remember what happened when Barclays sold 
him the account,  but Im not satisfied that it pressured him into buying it. As Mr L had 
held a fee-free  account, with an overdraft,  for quite  some  time, I think its more  likely 
that Barclays gave  him the choice to accept  or reject  its recommendation and that at 
the time he decided to accept it. 
Mr L has told us that he didnt have any children and so didnt need the child 
healthcare benefit  that came with the account.  I fully accept this, but the Additions  
account provided a package  of benefits which Barclays couldnt easily adjust for 
individual customers. So it doesnt follow that Barclays  mis-sold the account to Mr L 
because he didnt want or need the child healthcare benefit. The account  may still 
have been useful for him due to some of its other benefits. 
Although Mr L has told us that he was in financial hardship and was on a low wage, I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Barclays treated him unfairly. I dont think  
Barclays mis-sold  the Additions  account to Mr L. 
Ref: DRN54840943The Additions Plus account  
Barclays has told us that it sold this account to Mr L during a meeting at one of its 
branches, and as with the Additions account,  I have  no reason to doubt that it did so. 
In 2007, the Additions Plus account provided  many  similar  potential benefits, such  as 
car breakdown cover  and overdraft-related features, as the Additions account had 
done in 2004, but also offered  other  features such as travel insurance and domestic 
emergency cover. 
By this time, Mr L had switched from a fee-free  account to the Additions account  and 
back again. So it seems  to me that Barclays must have  let him know  about at least  
some of the choices available to him. I think its likely that during the meeting Barclays 
told Mr L about the potential benefits of the Additions  Plus account and recommended 
he change to it. I also think  it would  have told him how much  he would have to pay. 
Mr L had continued  to overdraw his account,  but as with the Additions account, I dont 
think there was anything in his financial  circumstances which  meant that Barclays  
behaved unfairly in recommending  him to switch to Additions Plus. I dont  think  that 
Barclays pressured Mr L, and I think its recommendation was reasonable.
I am sorry  to hear about Mr Ls anxiety and depression and I hope he is on the road to 
recovery. I dont know how much, if anything, he told Barclays  about this in 2007, but I 
havent seen anything to make me think that it was unfair for Barclays to sell the 
Additions Plus account to him.
In summary,  I cant be certain  that Barclays got everything right for Mr L, and I accept that it 
may not have explained all the details of the accounts to him as clearly as it should  have 
done. But Im satisfied that both the recommendations that Barclays made were reasonable, 
that it told Mr L how much the accounts would cost, that it told him about some of the 
benefits he could  obtain, and that it didnt pressure him to take either  account.  So I dont 
think that Barclays mis-sold either the Additions  or Additions Plus accounts  to Mr L. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint about Barclays  
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5484094