K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Phoenix Life Limited  didnt keep them updated  about  the value 
of their mortgage endowment policywhich left them with a shortfall on their mortgageand 
that it provided them with poor service.
background
In 1993, Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage endowment policy  over a 25-year term. In the 
early 2000s,  they received letters warning there was a high risk that the policy wouldnt 
reach its target amount by the time it matured. They then raised a mis-sale complaint, as 
they say they werent advised about this risk when  taking out the policy. This wasnt  upheld. 
The final response  sent in March 2004 said Mr and Mrs K had been advised about  the risk of 
a shortfall during the sale. It also said they had six months to refer the complaint to our 
service if they were unhappy with the outcome. 
The warning  letters and final response  listed the last two digits  of Mr and Mrs Ks postcode  in 
the wrong order. I understand these letters still reached them.  But Phoenix Life reports that 
some later lettersfrom 2005 and 2007 were returned as undelivered. I understand some 
were also addressed to Mrs Ks maiden name.  Despite Mrs K getting in touch in 2006 to 
correct the postcode, Phoenix Life says it removed  their address completely and stopped 
sending them post in 2007.
The policy matured with a shortfall  in April 2018. Due to the address issue, Mrs K didnt find 
out right away. She says shed been trying  to get in touch as she knew the policy  was due to 
mature around that time. But it was difficult to work out which company to contact or how to 
do so. When she got through to Phoenix  Life, she says the staff were  unhelpful,  lacked 
empathy, and couldnt find her details or complete security  checks.  
 
In late 2018, Phoenix  Life made the funds  from the policy  available  to Mr and Mrs K. It also 
added 8% simple interest a year to this amount,  to compensate them for the payment delay. 
When Mr and Mrs K complained, it offered £200 compensation for the service issues.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs K referred  the matter  to our service.  Our 
investigator advised that he couldnt look into the mis-sale complaint as it had been  referred  
to us too late. Mr and Mrs K clarified that they werent asking us to look into the sale; they 
wanted us to consider Phoenix  Lifes failure  to keep them  updated about the shortfall. They  
said it had breached data protection by sending information to the wrong address  then 
didnt try to locate them when it found  out that the post wasnt  being delivered.  Our 
investigator looked into these points and agreed that Phoenix Life had made mistakes. But 
he thought it had already offered fair compensation. Mr and Mrs K werent  happy  with this 
response. They said they would have made  other arrangements to cover  the shortfall if 
theyd been kept updated, so Phoenix  Life should pay this amount.
Another investigator reviewed the complaint. He pointed out that Mr and Mrs K had already 
been made aware of the likelihood of a shortfall  around the time of their mis-sale  complaint  
but hadnt made arrangements  to cover this. So he considered the £200 compensation and 
the interest award  to be a fair resolution. As Mr and Mrs K didnt accept this outcome, their 
complaint has been escalated  to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN52890002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigators  and for largely the same reasons. 
I fully appreciate why Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that they werent kept up-to-date  about  the 
performance of their policy. Ive considered what impact this had on them. Theyve  said they 
would have made arrangements to cover the shortfall if theyd been kept updated. But theyd 
already been made aware of the high risk their policy  wouldnt meet its target amount. For 
example, the warning  letter  they received in 2003  said they were likely to be left with a 
shortfall of £18,475   which  is larger  than the shortfall they ended  up with. It also strongly 
suggested they take action to make this up  and set out some options.  
Ultimately, despite the lack of updates over the years,  Mr and Mrs K had already received 
letters warning them to take action at a point when the projected shortfall was higher than 
their actual shortfall at the point of maturity.  So Im not persuaded they would have taken 
different action if theyd  been sent more  updates.  Ive therefore decided  not to direct 
Phoenix Life to cover  the shortfall.
Phoenix Life acknowledges  that, due to the address issue, there was a delay releasing  the 
maturity funds. I know Mr and Mrs K have told us this isnt their main concern, but I consider 
it to be an impact of one of the issues theyve raised. To address the delay, Phoenix Life 
awarded 8% simple interest  a year on top of the maturity value. Thats  the rate our service 
generally awards when  a complainant has been  deprived of money due to a businesss 
delay. Im satisfied the interest is appropriate in this instance  and that Phoenix Life has 
therefore adequately addressed the impact  of the payment delay.
Most of what Ive said above addresses  any potential financial impact  on Mr and Mrs K. Ive 
also thought about the non-financial impact. Even  though theyd already been told about the 
likelihood of a shortfall,  it would  still have  been upsetting for them  to get confirmation  of this 
following a long period of no contact.  The difficulty getting hold of this information was also 
frustrating and stressful for them. It was also worrying  for them  to find out their letters may 
have been sent to an incorrect  address  even though this was somewhat mitigated due to 
the post being returned as undelivered. 
Its not clear to me whether Phoenix Life is responsible for all the errors that were made; 
some may have been the responsibility  of other companies whove been involved with the 
policy over the years.  Regardless, Phoenix  Life has offered £200 compensation. In all the 
circumstances, Im satisfied this is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs K have suffered  due to these errors. So Im not increasing this award.  
I know this outcome will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs K. But I hope Ive been able to 
explain clearly why Im not awarding  anything more. 
my final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already made  an offer to pay £200 compensationand to pay 8% 
simple interest a year on top of the maturity value of the policyto settle the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN52890003So my final decision is that Phoenix Life should  pay Mr and Mrs K the following, if it hasnt 
already done so:
£200 compensation
8% simple interest a year on the policys maturity value, from the date the policy 
matured to the date of settlement  (less any tax properly deductible)
Any outstanding amounts  from this sum should  be paid within 28 days  of being notified by us 
of Mr and Mrs Ks acceptance of my decision, failing which  interest will accrue at the simple 
rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less  any tax properly 
deductible).
If Mr and Mrs K accept  this decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties.  So they 
wouldnt then be able to take legal action  in relation to any issues  covered in this case. On 
the other hand,  if they reject the decision, whilst that wont affect their legal rights, it would 
mean that Phoenix  Life wouldnt be obliged to comply with my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5289000