K820x#14Complaint
Miss B complains  that Marks and Spencer  Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank)  
made repeated errors when setting up a direct debit to pay a loan.  
Background
Miss B took out a £13,000 loan with M&S Bank  in September 2018 and completed a direct  
debit instruction so her payments  could be collected.  
But M&S Bank failed  to set up the direct  debit and Miss Bs payments had to be made 
manually. Miss B complained and M&S  Bank initially responded on 10 January 2019. 
M&S Bank upheld Miss Bs complaint and paid her £50 but the problems persisted. 
Miss B had to go back to M&S  Bank on numerous  occasions over the following months  
before the problem  was fixed. M&S Bank went on to pay Miss B a total of £350 because  of 
the problems she experienced with the direct debit. 
Miss B referred her complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator.  He agreed 
M&S Bank had made mistakes and taken a long time to fix the problem but thought  the £350 
it paid was fair. Miss B didnt agree with the investigator so her complaint  has been passed  
to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the direct debit problems went on for a very long time, even after M&S Bank 
told Miss B theyd been fixed. Miss B had to make manual payments for an extended period 
and I can understand  why shes  so annoyed  at what happened. M&S Bank accepts there  
were significant problems collecting payments via direct debit. Miss B has confirmed that an 
active direct  debit is now in place to collect payments  so the issue  has been fixed. 
I need to decide whether M&S Banks response and compensation paid in respect of
Miss Bs complaint goes far enough. The investigator asked Miss B to tell us about any 
financial losses she suffered as a result  of M&S  Banks mistakes.  The investigator also 
checked whether  M&S Bank had registered  any incorrect adverse information  with the credit 
reference agencies.  But Miss B hasnt provided  evidence of any financial losses shes 
incurred and M&S Bank says there was no impact to her credit file. Miss B hasnt told us 
about any problems  shes had with her credit  file as a result  of what happened  either.  
In response to the investigator Miss B has told us about how the problems affected her and 
her family. I understand she was buying  a property during this period and has a busy family 
life. Ive taken what  Miss B has said into account when reaching my decision. 
M&S Bank has paid a total of £350 to Miss B. Whilst I agree that the problems went on 
longer than they should have, I think £350  fairly  reflects the longstanding nature of the 
issues Miss B experienced and the level of frustration they caused. Taking everything Ive 
seen into account,  Im satisfied the compensation M&S Bank has paid a fair amount of 
compensation to Miss B in all the circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint  Miss B but I havent 
Ref: DRN59380772been persuaded to tell M&S Bank  to increase  its offer to take any additional steps to resolve 
her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5938077