K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham  and Gloucester at the 
time (C&G)  mis-sold  them the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think C&G  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs B didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this now many  years 
later. I say this because  C&G have provided me with the PPI proposal form that Mr and     
Mrs B have signed  which records their agreement to the cover. I can see a specific benefit 
split has been  chosen which indicates a discussion took place about  PPI.
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.  
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Bs repayments for up to 12 months  per claim if 
they became too ill to work, or if they became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition  to 
any sick pay they had and for longer  than their sick pay lasted.  And it wouldve paid out on 
top of any redundancy payment they may have got if they lost their job. And as there 
couldve been serious consequences  of not keeping up repayments  on a debt secured 
against their home, if they couldnt  work or lost their job then the PPI meant their monthly 
mortgage payments  wouldve been  met. 
 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Bs family  would  have  wanted to help, their support  cant 
be relied upon as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial assistance. So I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful to them.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said but these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN52790212Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279021