K820x#14Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  because Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has declined  a claim he made  
on his employers group  income  protection policy.  
Background
Mr T is represented  by his wife but Ill refer to all representations as being  made  by him. 
Mr T has been  on long term sick leave since December 2017 as he says he is suffering from 
symptoms of anxiety, depression and stress.  He claimed on his employers group income 
protection scheme, of which he is a beneficiary. Aviva declined  the claim on the basis that 
Mr Ts absence related to workplace issues. 
Aviva looked  into Mr Ts circumstances in more  detail. Having done so they asked Mr T to 
attend a face to face meeting because they thought  Mr T was carrying out other work, 
including property services and photography. Mr T didnt think  this was reasonable and 
asked our service to look into this complaint. Our service concluded it was reasonable for 
Aviva to ask Mr T to attend a face to face meeting, which he did in September  2018. A nurse 
was present at the appointment. 
Aviva considered the claim  again following the meeting and declined it on the basis  that the 
information theyd  gathered suggested,  on balance, that Mr T was intending to engage in 
work activity, in the form of photography and property businesses,  whilst attempting to claim 
benefits. 
Mr T doesnt think Aviva has treated him fairly. He says, in summary, that photography is his 
hobby and he hasnt been involved in any other business activities  since  hes been  unwell.  
He told us that he thinks Aviva are attacking his credibility because the medical evidence 
supports the fact that he isnt well enough  to work.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He concluded Mr T hadnt been engaged in 
a photography business. And he didnt think Mr T had carried  out an occupation  in relation to 
one of the property businesses,  which Ill refer to as Business A. However, he did think  Mr T 
had been carrying  out an occupation  in relation to a second property business, which Ill 
refer to as Business B. So he didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline the claim.  
Mr T didnt  agree. In summary, he said hed answered a couple  of calls and posted some  
responses online which didnt amount  to an occupation as he had minimal involvement  in the 
business. He also pointed out the policy didnt define occupation and provided  a number of 
dictionary definitions and made representations  about this. Aviva also didnt agree because 
they thought the evidence suggested  Mr T had been involved in both property businesses. 
So I need to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made  a number of detailed  representations which  I have fully considered.  
However, Im only going to refer to those which I think  are relevant to my decision. 
Ref: DRN59211602I also want to clarify  that I have listened  to the call between Mr and Mrs T and our 
investigator which involved a lengthy  discussion about the interpretation of the word  
occupation. 
The relevant  policy terms
In order to claim benefit under the policy the beneficiary of the scheme must meet  the 
definition of incapacity. The terms and conditions say: 
The member  is incapacitated when we are satisfied that due to illness  or injury  he or 
she is: 
-Incapable of performing  the material and substantial duties of his or her own 
occupation; and 
-Incapable of performing  the material and substantial duties of all other 
occupations for which he or she is reasonably  suited by reason of training, 
education or experience: and 
-Is not following  any other occupation. 
The word  occupation  is not defined within the policy.  As the policy  doesnt define  the word  
occupation Ive taken into account the Oxford and Cambridge dictionary definitions  of the 
word which are: 
-a job or profession
-a way of spending time
And:
-a persons job
-a regular activity  or hobby
I also think its important to note the wider  context of this complaint as it is a claim made  on 
an income protection policy  which is designed  to pay a benefit amount when the beneficiary 
is incapacitated. This is designed to cover the shortfall in the beneficiarys  salary.
Has Aviva rejected  the claim unfairly? 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The crux of this complaint is whether it was fair for Aviva to conclude Mr T was following any 
other occupation and decline the claim.  I dont  think Aviva has treated Mr T unfairly by 
declining the claim.  I say that because: 
Ref: DRN59211603Mr T says that Aviva has only referred  to concerns rather  than explaining why hes 
not eligible  for benefit. But I think Aviva  has explained why they arent paying the 
benefit as theyve relied on the policy definition Ive outlined above. A member is only 
eligible for benefit if they meet  the definition of incapacity which  includes not following 
any other occupation
There is a range of evidence which  connects  Mr T to the business. For example, hes 
a director and joint shareholder in the company,  his mobile phone  number was listed 
on the contact  details for the property, his name  is referred to in reviews  left by 
customers and his mobile phone was paid for as a business expense
Mr T says, in summary, that just because hes a director it doesnt  mean  its his 
occupation. But a director has responsibilities,  including a legal responsibility, for the 
running of the business. And, in this case, there is other  supporting evidence he was 
involved in the day to day running of the business which Ive outlined above
Ive taken into account what Mr T has said about his involvement in Business B 
which he said was ad hoc and very limited. He told us it was limited to around a total 
of 15 minutes of activities such as answering  a few calls and helping  some guests 
with Wi-Fi. I dont find that explanation  persuasive for the reasons Ill go on to explain
Business B was a commercial venture, as it was established as a company. The 
evidence Ive seen  indicates Mr T and his wife intended to use the property to 
generate income as it was marketed as a holiday home.  Regardless  of the level of 
income generated, and the extent  of Mr Ts involvement in the day to day running of 
the business, I dont think  its unreasonable for Aviva to conclude this amounted  to 
Mr T following any other  occupation  in line with the policy  terms
Mr T has made a number of representations  that its unfair for Aviva to describe his 
role as an occupation. Hes said this means,  for example, walking a dog or helping  a 
neighbour with their computer would amount to an occupation.  But, as I outlined  at 
the start of my decision, Ive taken into account  the wider context of this case  which  
is that Mr T was looking to claim on an insurance policy designed  to cover his income  
from employment if he was unwell for a long period  of time. So I dont find his 
representations on this point persuasive, bearing  in mind the overarching purpose of 
this policy
Mr T was listed as a Director of Business A, although hes since resigned and 
backdated the resignation. There is more limited specific evidence of Mr Ts role in 
Business A. However, I note Business B was listed as one of Business As clients 
and it was a business  offering property services.  So, I can appreciate why Aviva  
looked into Mr Ts role within Business A
Aviva  hasnt made any further representations  about Mr Ts use of photography. Mr T 
appeared to have  had some pictures for sale and had a relatively limited evidence 
online presence as a photographer. In any event, this isnt central to my decision in 
this case because  Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive already 
explained. 
 
Ref: DRN59211604My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5921160