K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  Mr and Ms S say 
Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold  them the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Yorkshire Building Society made  it clear  that Mr and Ms S didnt have to take out 
the MPPI  and that they chose to take it out. 
I dont think Yorkshire  Building  Society recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Ms S, as 
distinguished from it instead just giving them information to decide for themselves 
whether they wanted to take it out. So Yorkshire Building Society didnt have to check if it 
was right for Mr and Ms S. But even if Yorkshire  Building Society  did recommend the 
MPPI, based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Ms Ss circumstances  at the time, I think the 
MPPI was right for them. For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the MPPI cover. And although  Mr and Ms S have said they had secure 
employment, were entitled to sick pay, and that they had some  savings,  the MPPI was 
designed to protect them against  the unexpected.  If either Mr or Ms S had lost their job 
or been unable  to work the MPPI  couldve paid out at what  couldve been a difficult  time 
on top of any sick pay they mightve been  entitled to, and potentially for longer.  And they 
wouldve been able to use any savings they mightve had for other commitments.  So the 
MPPI was a sensible precaution and I dont think I could say  if Yorkshire Building 
Society had recommended the MPPI  that it was wrong for it to do so. 
Its possible the information Yorkshire Building Society gave Mr and Ms S about the 
MPPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the MPPI - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
it looks like the MPPI  couldve been useful for them if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like the MPPI  was affordable. So I dont think better  information about  the MPPI  
would have put Mr and Ms S off taking out the cover. 
Which means Yorkshire Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
MPPI to Mr and Ms S.
But Yorkshire Building Society will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Ms S 
because: 
Yorkshire Building Society  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 
50% of the MPPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Ms S about  that. Because  
Yorkshire Building Society didnt tell Mr and Ms S, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN58341452To put that right, Yorkshire Building Society has basically offered to pay back  the amount  
of commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Ms S have said.  But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire Building Society has to pay back to Mr and Ms S any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium. Yorkshire Building Society should also 
pay back to Mr and Ms S any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Yorkshire Building Society should pay back to Mr and Ms S the extra  they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Yorkshire Building Society should also pay Mr and Ms S 8%* simple interest on each  
payment (15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Ms S can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Ms S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Ms S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5834145