K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  gave  him incorrect  information  regarding 
his annuity.
background
Mr B was looking  to take benefits from his pension fund when he reached age 60 on 
23 November 2017. So after receiving  the standard retirement options pack (ROP), in 
June 2017 his independent financial  adviser (IFA) contacted Aviva  for information about his 
options and ordered a new quote.  When the quote didnt arrive within the timeframe  assured 
by Aviva,  Mr Bs IFA requested the quote  again  in July. And a quote  using different terms 
was requested by the IFA in early August. At this time the IFA told Aviva since shes  not 
received anything from them by post she wanted the new quote emailed to her. 
Receiving nothing,  the IFA chased  Aviva a few weeks later and again  asked for it to be sent 
by email. 
In November, 10 days before Mr Bs 60th birthday, his IFA called  Aviva  for clarification about 
the lifetime allowance. The next day, 14 November, Mr Bs IFA called Aviva to let them  know  
Mr B had made a decision and requested  a final quote so that he could move forward with 
his application  to take benefits. 
During this call the IFA said that Avivas 10 day turnaround for producing  the ROP would 
take Mr B passed his birthday, which  was also the scheme retirement date. She then asks 
"That won't affect things  will it? He is 60".
The Aviva representative  responded:  "No.... That's  absolutely fine. I will put a note on file to 
say benefits won't  be taken until after his birthday  and leave everything as it is".
Also during  this call the IFA arranged to have the ROP sent direct to Mr B. This was not 
received and so the IFA called Aviva several times on 30 November. During the various  calls 
the IFA again instructed Aviva to send the ROP direct to Mr B explaining shed be on 
holiday. She also asked if there was anything else Aviva needed  from Mr B and was assured 
that Aviva  had everything they required.  
Mr B chased  Aviva  about the ROP on 11 December as it still hadnt been received. He finally  
got it around 15 December. The letter was dated 8 December and referred to Mr Bs pension  
fund value as at 23 November 2017. The accompanying  illustration showed his retirement 
date as 23 November  2017 and said his annuity would start then too. 
Mr Bs signed application,  dated 19 December, was received by Aviva  on 27 December. 
Mr B called Aviva several times throughout January and February 2018 seeking an update  
on his annuity  application. His annuity eventually began with a start date of 22 January 2018. 
Mr B complained to Aviva that he was told his annuity would be backdated to his 60th 
birthday. 
Aviva looked  into his concerns and agreed  the service provided could have been better. In 
their final response letter  Aviva said they gave him incorrect information on 14 November, 
namely that his payments would be backdated to his birthday. Aviva apologised, and 
explained he shouldve  been told his annuity wouldnt start until theyd received all necessary 
documentation. Aviva  also recognised  it caused further delays in the application process  and 
Ref: DRN59827212reasoned had things gone as they shouldve Mr B wouldve received the ROP on 
28 November, instead of 8 December. And since the ROP was returned to them on 
27 December, 11 working days later, he would have returned it on 13 December. So Aviva 
agreed to backdate Mr Bs annuity  payments to 13 December 2017. It also paid Mr B £350 
for the trouble and inconvenience caused.  
Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to this service  for an independent review. 
One of our investigators  looked into everything  thats happened  and thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  She thought if Aviva had given Mr B the correct  information at the time  
i.e. his annuity wouldnt start until after theyd  received all of the documents   he wouldnt 
have waited working 11 days, including  two weekends, to return his paperwork. She thought 
he would  have returned it within one week, or five working days. And concluded the annuity 
should be backdated to 5 December 2017  instead.  
Mr B accepted the investigators opinion. 
Aviva didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
As the case was being passed  to me, Aviva  said for the first time that it didnt give Mr B 
incorrect information about the annuity start date. Aviva said it believed that during the 
14 November call its representatives  response  to Mr Bs IFA was merely referring to making 
sure Aviva didnt start issuing change of pension age documents as this would be the 
normal process when  retirement options havent  been finalised within  a certain  amount of 
time after the selected retirement date passed.  Aviva explained it didnt feel the 
representatives comments  were  in reference  to when  income  would start. 
Aviva also said even  if it had everything  it needed on 23 November, his retirement date, 
there wasnt enough time once this date was reached for Mr B to receive a payment in 
November. So it felt the proposed resolution  did take into account benefits  being taking 
directly after the retirement  date was reached. 
And Aviva also explained it used  the full 11 working  days in determining  when the annuity 
shouldve started because it had no reason to believe  that Mr B hadnt received the ROP on 
time due to an Aviva error. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive listened to over 10 phone  calls between Aviva  and either Mr B or his IFA between 
26 June and 11 December. On multiple occasions Mr Bs IFA explained to Aviva that 
correspondence sent in the mail wasnt being received and asked Aviva to use email 
instead. From what Ive seen this doesnt  appear  to have happened.  
I also note that during  the phone call of 14 November Mr Bs IFA said a decision about how 
he wanted to take benefits had been  made and final quotes requested.  The IFA then 
remarked on the 10 working day turnaround  for issuing  the retirement forms and how that 
would take them past Mr Bs selected retirement  date and asked That wont  affect things will 
it? He is 60.
Ref: DRN59827213The Aviva representative  responded  Nothats absolutely fine. I will put a note in the file to 
say benefits wont  be taken until after his birthday and leave everything as it is. 
Mr B and his IFA say this meant his annuity would still start on his birthday regardless of 
when the forms  were returned. Aviva told me that it believes the representative was referring 
to ensuring they didnt  issue change of pension age documents which is their normal  
procedure when retirement benefits  arent claimed  within a certain  amount of time after the 
selected retirement date.  
I cant be sure what the representative  intended, but it seems that no note was actually 
placed on the file as Mr B did receive  a pension benefits deferral letter in January 2018,  
which he was told to ignore after calling Aviva  about  it. 
Nevertheless, while I appreciate what Mr Bs said, even if I agree with his interpretation, 
based on the documents provided to Mr B and his IFA, I consider it wouldve been a mistake  
to tell him his benefits would be paid from his 60th birthday. And my role is to not punish a 
business for making mistakes,  but rather to ensure a consumer is not worse  off as a result.  
In this case, my aim is to put Mr B in the position he wouldve  been  in had the mistake not 
been made. Avivas  admitted it made several mistakes in dealing  with Mr Bs retirement 
application process. In addition,  I consider  that during the 14 November phone  call, Aviva 
shouldve made  certain  the IFA understood that benefits  would only be paid once all of the 
paperwork was received. I think had this been  done Mr B wouldve returned the forms with 
some urgency.  
Aviva said it shouldve sent the ROP  on November 28 but didnt  send it until December 8. 
Aviva said Mr B returned the application  11 working  days after December 8 and so 
calculated redress from 11 working days after November 28 and concluded  the application 
wouldve been received by Aviva  on 13 December. 
I appreciate why Aviva used this timeline  but I dont agree that Mr B wouldve  taken  11 
working days to return the application  if everything had gone as it should  have. This is 
because Avivas timeline assumes Mr B received the application on or near December 8 and 
that if he didnt  it wasnt  Avivas fault.  However,  Ive been provided with evidence showing 
that on multiple occasions Mr Bs IFA told Aviva to send documents  by email as things sent 
in the post werent being received. But Aviva continued to send things by post anyway. And 
Ive listened to a call from Mr B to Aviva on 11 December where he specifically requests the 
paperwork be resent as he had not received it. Given these circumstances, I think its not 
reasonable to say Mr B wouldve taken longer to return his application than he actually did.  
During the 11 December phone  call Aviva told Mr B it would resend everything that day and 
it would  arrive in 3-5 working days  sometime between 14 and 18 December. 
Mr B signed  and returned the application on 19 December. So at most, Mr B took five 
working days to return the application.  And so applying that timeframe,  if Aviva  had done 
everything they shouldve, when they shouldve the application wouldve been sent on 
November 28 and Mr B wouldve returned  it no more than five working  days later,  or by 5 
December 2017.  And I believe had Mr B known he wouldnt get an annuity  payment until all 
of his paperwork was received,  I think he wouldve  acted quickly  and turned around the 
application as soon as he could. So based  on everything thats happened I think it more 
likely than not Aviva wouldve received  everything  it needed from Mr B by 5 December 2017. 
Therefore, his annuity shouldve started then.  
Ref: DRN59827214In order to put Mr B in the position he shouldve been in, or as close to it, had things gone as 
they shouldve  when he was looking to claim his pension benefits, Aviva  should backdate Mr 
Bs annuity start date to 5 December 2017  and pay Mr B any missed annuity  payments, plus 
8% interest on each missed payment from when  it shouldve been paid until settlement. 
Aviva should  also pay Mr B 8% interest  on his tax free cash payment from 5 December 2017 
until it was received, less any interest  already paid to Mr B for the delay in paying out his tax 
free cash. 
Im satisfied that the £350 Aviva has paid is fair compensation  for the trouble and upset 
caused by its errors. So I dont think  it needs to pay any further compensation for that. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Aviva  Life & Pensions  Limited  U.K. 
to pay him compensation as set about above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5982721