K820x#14complaint
Mr L says CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as PoundstoPocket, lent to him irresponsibly.  He 
says PoundstoPocket (P2P) didnt check his finances and didnt ask him for proof of 
income or expenditure.  He also says P2P harassed him with excessive attempts  to contact 
him.
background
Mr L had two loans  from P2P. They were both instalment loans with terms of 12 months. Ive 
set out some  of the details P2P provided  about  the loans below.
Loan no.
Date approved Date repaid Loan amount
Repayments
1 05/07/2017 04/04/2018 £1,000 12 x £156
2 02/05/2018 outstanding £1,350 12 x £214
An adjudicator considered  Mr Ls complaint and didnt  recommend it be upheld.  He thought 
the affordability checks P2P carried out were proportionate in the circumstances of those 
loans. As the checks suggested the loans  were affordable, he didnt think P2P was wrong  to 
lend to Mr L.
Mr L, via his representative, disagreed. He said he couldnt see how a business couldve  
checked his credit file and thought  it right to lend. He also asked that we take into account 
his vulnerability  when the loans were approved and the volume  of letters  and 
correspondence sent once hed informed  P2P of his health problems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations and guidance included the Financial  Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). CONC contained rules  and guidance for lenders  
about responsible lending.  Among  other  things, CONC said lenders should  carry out 
affordability checks which are proportionate in the circumstances of the loan. The regulations 
also said repayments should be sustainable (i.e. repayable from the borrowers income or 
savings) and that lenders shouldnt allow a borrower  to enter into consecutive credit  
agreements where  it would be unsustainable to do so.
Having thought carefully about everything  Mr L has said, Im not upholding his complaint. 
I realise this will be disappointing  for him, but I hope my explanation will help him understand 
how I made my decision.
As Ive summarised above, P2P wasnt required to carry out checks  in any particular way. Its 
main duty was to check that the repayments would be sustainable, but how it went about 
that was a matter  for it. I can, however,  consider whether the checks  P2P carried out were  
proportionate in Mr Ls circumstances.
For both loans, P2P asked Mr L about  his income  and employment status, and for each loan 
Ref: DRN52914852Mr L said he was employed,  with income  of about  £1,400 a month. P2P says it used credit 
tools to verify this information  and Ive seen no reason  why P2P shouldve questioned this 
information further.
P2P also asked  Mr L about his general living costs. These came to a total of £826 for loan 1 
and £775 for loan 2. The main reason for the reduction in Mr Ls living costs seems to be he 
declared lower expenditure for transport as well as for other  undefined  expenses.  The other  
significant change  was that he declared  higher credit commitments of £350 for loan 2, 
compared to £150 for loan 1.
P2P also carried out credit checks.  These  checks didnt cause it to modify the £150 figure for 
credit commitments  Mr L declared for loan 1. But it did increase the £350 Mr L declared  as 
credit commitments  for loan 2 by adding an additional £200.
On balance, I think the checks P2P carried  out were proportionate in the circumstances of 
these loans. It obtained a reasonable amount of information from Mr L and took some  steps  
to check this information against other sources. On the basis of the information it obtained, 
I think it reasonably decided that the repayments of £156 a month and £214 a month were 
affordable. I understand that Mr L was in a difficult situation at the time. I wont go into detail 
on this to protect his privacy. But P2P didnt know about his personal circumstances when 
making its lending  decisions and I cant see it wouldve had a reason to contact him to ask.
So I cant say its something  P2P ought  to have taken into account.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about irresponsible lending.
Ive also considered Mr Ls concerns about the number of times P2P called him after he 
raised his complaint about the lending. He asked P2P not to call him, for example in his 
email of 8 July 2018, and asked for future  contact  to be in writing.  Ive considered P2Ps  
phone records and can see P2P tried to call Mr L four times after this email. P2Ps  records 
show four calls to Mr L between 4 and 13 August 2018. It seems that on 14 August Mr L 
contacted P2P again,  explaining the impact these calls were having on him.
Ive considered the sequence of events  carefully  and on balance I dont think  it was 
inappropriate for P2P to contact Mr L by phone between 4 and 13 August. There  was no 
plan in place to deal with the outstanding debt at this stage and it would have been arguably 
inappropriate for P2P to let the matter  drift. And I dont think that the number of phone calls 
P2P attempted was excessive. Had P2P contacted  Mr L by phone again after 14 August, 
I may have  taken a different view. But Ive seen no evidence that it did.
Im unable, therefore, to uphold Mr Ls complaint  about the phone  calls.
I remind P2P of its ongoing  obligation to treat Mr L positively and sympathetically, 
particularly in light of his current circumstances.
Ref: DRN52914853my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  CashEuroNet UK LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5291485