K822xcomplaint
Ms M has complained about Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company Limiteds (LV) actions 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background 
In November 2016 Ms M was in a minor bump with another car. Both drivers blamed the 
other for the accident.  The cost of repairs for Ms Ms car was below her excess so she didnt 
claim for her own damage on her motor policy. The other driver claimed for his losses 
against Ms Ms policy. LV offered to settle that claim, on a without prejudice basis, as a 
50/50 split liability.  Ms M pursued her own claim and eventually the court  awarded  judgment 
in her favour.
Ms M was unhappy about a number of aspects of LVs service.  She brought  her complaint to 
us. Our investigator didnt  think LV had dealt with Ms M fairly.  LV agreed to note the claim as 
non-fault and recalculate Ms Ms premium for her policy which  had renewed in 2017. It also 
offered to pay Ms M £75 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Ms M didnt think that went  far enough so her complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Ms M has made  a number  of detailed points. But in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the key outstanding points.
was Ms Ms car economical to repair
Ms Ms said that LV misled her into saying that her car would be a total loss but didnt deal 
with the claim as such. Ive listened to the call when Ms M initially  reported the accident. And 
during that call LV did tell Ms M that, owing  to the age of her car and the costs  of 
replacement parts, it was likely the car would be deemed a total loss. But it said that it would 
arrange for a garage to look at her car and provide  a repair estimate.  That estimate put the 
cost of repairs at less than £400. But Ms Ms car, at the time, was valued at over £3,000. So 
it was economical to repair and it wasnt a total loss. So it was reasonable for LV not to deal 
with the claim on a total loss basis.
Ms Ms policy says that if her car is repairable  then LV will arrange  those repairs.  But the 
excess on Ms Ms policy was £600. In other  words  her excess was higher  than the cost of 
repairs. So LV didnt arrange those  repairs and Ms M didnt claim for the damage  to her own 
car against her policy. That was reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont think LV told 
Ms M that repairs werent possible, simply that they wouldnt  be done under a claim against 
her policy,  as the costs  were below her excess.  So I think  LV dealt with Ms M fairly in not 
treating her claim as a total loss or not arranging repairs.
closing the claim and Ms Ms renewal premium
Ref: DRN55598392At the point that Ms Ms policy  renewed in July 2017 the claim against Ms Ms policy  was still 
open. Thats  because  the other driver  was still claiming against Ms Ms policy  and the claim 
was still in dispute. And its usual for insurers to treat open claims as if they are fault claims 
when the policy renews.  And all insurers Im aware of will treat drivers  with recent fault 
claims on their insurance history as a higher risk than those without such claims, and they 
reflect that change  in risk in the premiums they charge. If at a later date the claim is closed 
as non-fault its usual  for insurers to reconsider the renewal premium  and issue  any refund 
that might  be due.
Ms Ms said that the claim was only open  in July 2017 because LV hadnt accepted that she 
wasnt at fault for the accident. But that wasnt the reason  the claim remained open when 
Ms Ms policy renewed. The claim remained open because  liability  was disputed,  that is both 
Ms M and the other driver  blamed each other  for the accident, and LV was defending against 
the other drivers claim even though it felt the most  likely outcome was 50/50 split liability. So 
the reason that the claim remained  open  was because of those disputes and not because  of 
LVs initial stance. So I dont think any action or inaction on LVs part was the reason that the 
claim remained open when Ms M renewed her policy in 2017.  
Ms M issued proceedings through a solicitor  to recover  her losses  from the other driver. 
Ms M said that LV delayed in starting that process  and that was the reason that the claim 
remained open at renewal. But I havent  seen any evidence that Ms M had asked  LV to refer 
her to solicitors prior to July 2017. But even if the delay in that happening  was because of 
LVs inaction, Ive seen  that the action  through the courts, resulting in the other side paying  
for Ms Ms losses in March 2018,  took roughly eight months to conclude.  And Ms Ms policy  
renewed around eight  months after the accident.  So even if LV had referred Ms M to 
solicitors sooner theres no guarantee that the proceedings her solicitor  issued would have  
concluded before her policy  renewed. 
That said,  the other drivers representatives  failed to respond to the proceedings Ms Ms 
solicitor issued against them. So the court made a default judgement in her favour,  which the 
other drivers  insurers  paid in March 2018.  The other drivers insurer continued to say that it 
was disputing liability. But given that a court had made a judgement against the other driver, 
which hadnt been set aside, I understand that the other insurers  potential for a successful 
claim against Ms Ms policy was remote.  So I think LV should have closed down the claim at 
that point. But it didnt do so. Indeed it was only after Ms M complained  to us that LV agreed 
to treat the claim as non-fault, recalculate  the renewal premium  in 2017 and pay Ms M a 
refund. That was action it should have taken sooner. And I can see thats  been  a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Ms M. So in order  to address that, unless it has already done  
so, I think it should  pay her £75 compensation. 
After LV recalculated Ms Ms renewal premium for 2017, the premium was still around £100  
higher than it had been in 2016. Ms M said that LV had promised to return  her premiums  to 
normal without any indication that it might increase. But I think Ms Ms mistaken.  Ive 
listened to a call in which LV told Ms M that if the claim was closed  as non-fault it would 
recalculate the premium.  But it told her it couldnt say what  that premium would be until it 
had recalculated it. I dont  think it said that the premium would return  to normal. 
Im aware that recalculating the premium didnt bring  it down  to its previous level.  But its 
usual for insurance  premiums to vary from year to year and that can mean they go up as 
well as down regardless of whether or not theres  been a claim. And as Ive said above  I 
dont think LV ever promised that the premium would return to what it was before the claim.  
So I think its dealt with her fairly.
Ref: DRN55598393Ms Ms said that if LV had been  clearer that her premium  might  have increased then she 
could have shopped around to find a cheaper  premium. But she always  could have done 
that. She wasnt under any obligation  to renew  with LV in 2017. Indeed in the call where she 
asked about the effect  on her premium she said that she might contact other insurers. And I 
dont think there was anything preventing her from doing that. It is the case  that she would 
have had to tell other insurers  that she had an open  claim. But I dont think  that would have 
prevented her from shopping  around for an alternative policy. Indeed when Ms Ms policy  
was due for renewal  in 2018 LV still hadnt closed  the claim.  But Ms M was able to find a 
cheaper policy elsewhere even with the open  claim  so thats action she could have taken 
a year earlier. And I dont  think  LV prevented her from doing that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  Unless  it has already done  so I 
require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms M £75 compensation to 
address her distress and inconvenience. It should make  that payment or confirm  it has 
already done so within 28 days  of us telling it that Ms M has accepted  my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If LV pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5559839