K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.   Direct 
Auto Finance Insurance Services  Ltd (DAFIS) has accepted  responsibility  for the sale and 
this complaint. 
background
I attach my provisional decision of 12 February  2020, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In it I set out the background to and circumstances of this complaint and explained why 
I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold.  But I invited  Mr E and DAFIS to send me any more 
information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
DAFIS has said it doesnt have anything to add. Mr E has made a number of comments,  
including reiterating  that he only took out the PPI so he could get the funds for the car. It 
remains his view that he wasnt given  a choice and that the PPI wasnt suitable for him.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive thought carefully about all of Mr Es comments on my provisional decision.  Ive no 
reason to doubt that hes given us his best recollection of the sale. Hes also referred me to 
some media coverage about the seller  which he feels supports his case.  But Im focusing 
primarily on the evidence  I have about this particular sale. And nothing  in Mr Es most recent 
comments has changed my view that on balance, based on the information Ive got about  it -
including the paperwork that he signed  - I cant fairly say that the PPI was mis-sold to him. 
Mr E has also told us the car had lots of problems, which led him to return  it well before the 
end of the term of the conditional sale agreement, but that he still had to pay some further 
money for the PPI. As I explained in my provisional  decision, its possible he wasnt told that 
in these circumstances he wouldnt get a proportionate refund of his PPI premium. But I 
dont think that meant  the PPI wasnt right for him as Ive seen nothing to make me think that 
when he bought it, he expected to end the agreement  early and so cancel the PPI early too. 
As I made clear in the provisional decision, I know that Mr E feels very strongly,  has put a lot 
of effort  into his complaint and will be disappointed by this outcome. Im aware that he thinks  
DAFIS will be getting away  with bad practice. But Ive been presented with two very 
different versions  of events. So Ive had to weigh up all the evidence  that Ive been given, to 
decide what in my view is most  likely to have  happened. And having done that, the outcome 
and my reasoning  remain as set out above  and in my provisional decision. I dont think  I can 
fairly conclude that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN51520382Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
 
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51520383                                                 copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy. It was sold by 
Direct Auto Financial Services Limited, trading as Yes Car Credit. But that company  was acting on 
behalf of Direct Auto Finance  Insurance Services Ltd (DAFIS), which is responsible for the sale and 
this complaint. So Ill refer just to DAFIS in this decision.
background
Mr E entered  into a four year conditional sale agreement for a car, in 2005. At the same  time DAFIS 
sold him a PPI policy, the single  premium  for which was added to his credit and on which he paid 
interest. 
The policy covered Mr Es repayments under  the agreement for up to 12 months at a time if he lost 
his job, or the remaining term of the agreement if he was off work ill or injured. 
Mr E has complained about how the PPI was sold. Among other things,  he says he wasnt told that 
the PPI was optional and was led to believe  he had to buy it, to get the finance for the car.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld, but DAFIS doesnt agree. So its come to me 
to decide.
DAFIS has previously suggested that Mr E mightve brought his complaint  to this Service out of time. 
But one of my fellow ombudsmen recently issued  a decision that the complaint  is within our 
jurisdiction to consider, and Ive read and now adopt his views on that point.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the currently  available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Es case.
Having done that, Ive provisionally decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
was Mr E given a fair choice?
DAFIS had to make  it clear to Mr E that the PPI was optional, and get his consent before adding it to 
his account.  DAFIS says it did that. But Mr E feels DAFIS didnt make him aware he had a choice, 
and led him to think he had to buy the PPI. So Ive been given two very different versions  of events  
and I have to decide what is most likely  to have  happened.
The sale took place face to face, in a car showroom.  But there are no notes available now, after so 
long, to show  me what was discussed. That means I have  to decide what I think probably  happened 
based on what Mr E can remember,  what DAFIS  has been able to tell us about  its usual  sale process 
at that time and the paperwork Ive seen from the sale.
DAFIS says that before  he signed the conditional  sale agreement Mr E willve been given a welcome 
booklet to read. This provided him with basic information about the types of insurance available,  
including PPI, and said they were optional. I cant be sure he did get that booklet and, if so, when. But 
I think  its likely hed seen it before signing the agreement.
Ref: DRN51520384At the showroom Mr E and DAFIS completed paperwork including a statement of Mr Es demands 
and needs, and DAFIS  checked his eligibility for the insurance. So to my mind  its likely  there was a 
discussion about those  insurances,  including  PPI, and whether  they might be suitable for him.
Ive taken on board Mr Es point that the sale agreement didnt expressly say the PPI was optional. 
But it did say (though in quite small print) Do you apply for all additional insurance(s)  (if any) for which  
a premium is shown?.  Mr E signed to confirm this. There were  also tick boxes for various insurances 
towards the foot of the first page, and the I wish to purchase PPI box was ticked. Mr E signed  below 
it, to confirm that was what he wanted.
In addition, the demands  and needs statement which he also signed said that DAFIS had 
recommended the PPI to Mr E, along with mechanical breakdown and guaranteed asset protection  
insurance (neither of which  hes complaining about). It went on to say I have decided that I wish to 
take up these insurance products, followed  by a list which included PPI. It added that he had the right 
to cancel  any of these insurances. 
Mr E also signed a handover checklist  which said the additional optional insurance  products had 
been fully explained to him.
I dont know what Mr E discussed about PPI with the staff in the showroom. He says he was led to 
believe he had to have  PPI in order to get the credit for the car. And thats possible.  But hes having to 
try to recall events from almost 15 years ago. And overall  Ive not seen sufficient evidence for me 
fairly to conclude  that DAFIS did or said something to make  him think  he had to have  the PPI - 
particularly bearing in mind  how it was presented in the paperwork he signed. He may well have been 
strongly encouraged to buy PPI, but thats not the same as being  told he had to have it.
Ive taken into account that Mr E says he desperately  needed the car. I can see too that there were 
various different documents he had to look at, and I dont know how much time he was given to do 
that. Mr E feels it wasnt long enough. But he was taking on a big financial  commitment and to my 
mind he could  reasonably be expected to read the paperwork quite carefully before signing it. If 
anything was unclear or didnt reflect what he wanted, he couldve pointed  that out so it could be put 
right.
So even if he didnt fully understand some of the detail, I think Mr E wouldve known he was being  
given a choice, and that he was opting to buy PPI. And Ive not been clearly shown that he was put 
under unfair pressure  to agree to have it. 
was Mr E given good enough advice  and information? 
DAFIS recommended the PPI to Mr E. So it had to check that it would  be right for him. From  what  Ive 
been told about his circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for him. Thats because  he was 
eligible for the policy  and couldve benefitted  from all the cover  it provided.  And as I explain below,  I 
think it couldve proved useful in his situation.  
DAFIS also had to give Mr E good enough information about the cost,  benefits and main  features  of 
the PPI, before he agreed to buy it, so he could decide whether he wanted it. As Ive said,  I dont 
know what was discussed  about the PPI and I cant be sure what written details he was given about  it, 
or when he got them. And from the paperwork Ive seen its possible  the information  Mr E was given 
wasnt as clear or full as it shouldve  been.
But based on what I know about his circumstances  at that time, I think Mr E would probably  still have 
taken out the PPI anyway,  even if hed got all the information he shouldve had. Thats because I think 
it couldve been helpful for him. I dont think he wouldve  been affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. And the benefits of the PPI couldve been worth much more  than it cost. 
Hes told us he wouldve got sick pay from his job and had some small  savings. But the PPI couldve 
paid out for much longer than his sick pay and on top of any sick pay or redundancy  payment  he 
Ref: DRN51520385mightve got.  It wouldve  left intact for the future whatever  savings he had. And the agreement was in 
his sole name. So overall, I think having PPI couldve given Mr E some valuable protection  and peace 
of mind.
Hes told us he was working to a budget  when  he bought the car but the monthly  repayments he took 
on, including the PPI, seem  to have been around that amount and Ive seen nothing  to show he 
couldnt afford  them  at the time. I dont know whether he was told that if he ended the agreement  
early he might not get back as much  of the cost of the PPI as he mightve expected.  But Ive seen no 
evidence that he was planning to do that when  he took the PPI out, or to suggest  DAFIS had any 
particular reason  to expect  he would.
I think  the way the cost of the PPI was set out in the agreement  couldve been better. The amount of 
the interest on the PPI premium wasnt shown separately  it was combined with the other insurances 
he was taking  out. So he wouldnt have  known  the exact total cost of the PPI, or how much itd be per 
month. But it told him how much the PPI premium itself was, and I think he wouldve  understood that 
interest would  be added to that, increasing  the amount of the credit. He wouldve  known the total cost 
of all the insurances he was agreeing to have, including  interest.  So I think hed have broadly  
understood what the PPI would cost him. And I dont think better cost information wouldve  changed 
his decision to buy the PPI.
Our adjudicator considered  that Mr Es complaint ought  to be upheld  because he had a back problem 
when he took out the PPI, which wouldnt have  been  covered  by the policy   so she felt DAFIS 
shouldnt have recommended it. And I can see that Mr Es policy didnt  cover claims  caused or 
contributed to by any condition from which  hed suffered,  or for which hed got treatment or advice, in 
the 12 months before  the PPI started.  DAFIS  has pointed out that this exclusion was mentioned in the 
summary booklet  it says he willve been given, but as Ive said I cant be sure if or when he got that 
and whether hed had chance  to read it fully. 
But looking  at the demands and needs statement  that he signed,  it said Mr E confirmed that the 
insurance products had been explained to him and it stated - immediately above  where he signed - I 
have had explained that ...BACK  PAIN  RELATED EXCLUSION. So its likely  DAFIS adviser asked 
Mr E questions to find out about his health, the policy exclusion was then specifically  discussed and 
Mr E decided to go ahead, knowing that any claim arising  from his back  problem wouldnt be covered.  
In these particular circumstances  I dont think it was unreasonable for DAFIS to recommend the PPI, 
after giving him that explanation and advice. 
I say this particularly because his finance application form said Back pain - saw GP around 8 months 
ago. Not serious  generally fit and healthy. Hes told us during this complaint that when he applied 
for the PPI he was asked if I had consulted a doctor within the previous 12 months and as I had for a 
temporary lower  back  pain issue that was mild and uncomplicated, this was noted.  He says it was 
certainly not a long term health problem,  just a spell  of temporary back  pain, and he considered  
himself to be fit and healthy when he took out the PPI. And the PPI wouldve still covered him for 
time off work for other unrelated health issues, or if he lost his job.
For the same reasons, even if DAFIS didnt  make it as clear to Mr E as it shouldve done that he 
wouldnt be covered for any future claim arising from his prior back  problem, I dont think  that wouldve 
changed his decision to have the PPI. I dont  think he wouldve thought  it was likely that hed want to 
make a claim under  the policy resulting  from that earlier problem. 
Overall, Ive thought carefully about everything Mr E and DAFIS have sent and told us so far. I know 
Mr E feels strongly about  his complaint and has put time and effort into it. I realise hell be 
disappointed that Ive reached  a different conclusion  from our adjudicator. But in my view Mr E hasnt 
lost out because  of anything DAFIS mayve done  wrong. And on balance I dont currently think itd be 
fair and reasonable to uphold  his complaint.  
Ref: DRN51520386my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive read and been told up to now, Im not intending to uphold  this complaint.
But I invite Mr E and Direct Auto Finance Insurance Services Ltd to send  me, by the date Ive said, 
any more information or comments theyd like me to consider before I give my final decision.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5152038