K821x#15complaint
Miss P says Skipton Building  Society  (Skipton) miss-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss P took out a PPI policy  in 2002  in connection  with a mortgage.  Miss P took out PPI to 
protect her repayments to the mortgage.  She paid a monthly amount for the policy, which  
provided cover if Miss P couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Skipton disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ps case. 
Im upholding Miss Ps complaint and Ill explain  why.
The questions I need to consider are whether Skipton gave Miss P information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where  she could make an 
informed choice about the insurance she was buying. And whether in giving any advice or 
recommendation, Skipton took adequate steps  to ensure the product it recommended  was 
suitable for her needs. 
Skipton said it did not give Miss P any advice about whether she should take out the policy. 
So Skipton  didnt need to make sure that the policy was suitable for Miss P. But it did need 
to provide her with information sufficient for her to make  an informed choice. Having 
considered the case and all the submissions made in this case, I do not think that Skipton 
ensured Miss P was in a position to make a properly informed  choice. 
I say that because the sales process  that Skipton  put Miss P through seems  to have relied 
on the representative explaining the key features of the policy to Miss P. We cant  know  what 
was discussed  at the time. And Skipton has not provided evidence  of what the 
representative was trained  to explain to a customer. But even if we had such evidence,  we 
couldnt know that guidance  had been  followed in this particular case. 
Ive noted the Summary  of Cover document that Skipton has provided. It does contain  
information pertaining to pre-existing  medical conditions. But Skipton didnt just have to 
provide information  to Miss P, it had to significantly highlight important information  to her. 
The information relating to exclusions is in the middle of small,  closely-worded text. In 
choosing to present  this information in this way the business took the risk that a consumer 
would consider the information to be small print.  To understand the exclusion Miss P was 
required to cross reference the policy information  with the section  of definitions. As such this 
important information  policy  would only be clear to someone who read the document  
reasonable closely. So I dont think that this document is, in itself,  evidence that the 
important information  was sufficiently highlighted to Miss P at the point of sale. 
Ref: DRN58476382And I havent been shown any evidence from Skipton that their sales process  directed 
Miss P that she should, or made  allowance for her to, closely read this policy document 
before Miss P was asked  to buy it. So I dont think this is sufficient to ensure Miss P was 
fully informed about this term at the point  of sale.
Skipton has placed  weight  on the standard declarations in the application form. They think  
these declarations show that Miss P would have been aware of the exclusions at the time of 
the sale. And I have  noted that one of the ticked declarations says that the key features of 
the policy had been explained. 
But the application form that Miss P signed was most likely completed by the representative. 
I say that as someone has written Already with us underneath  the boxes that were ticked  
requesting the cover,  which isnt a phrase that Miss P would have used of herself. And again  
the declarations  were  also, most  likely, ticked by the representative. Ive noted  the cross in 
the signature box which suggests  that, most likely,  that was the only place the consumer 
was required to interact with the form in this sale; i.e. to sign for the cover. 
I dont know if all of the Skiptons  representatives  were trained to complete the forms in this 
way, maybe to speed things up. Or whether the forms in this case are a matter pertaining to 
this individual  representative, or a one off. But I must have regard for all the submissions 
made to me in a case. And the overall impression of these documents  is that they were 
completed by the representative and Miss Ps contribution was limited to signing at the 
bottom. And in choosing to seemingly  limit Miss Ps engagement with the application form in 
this way, I think the representative ran the risk that Miss P might  have relied  more  on what 
the representative was saying to her, than in engaging with what  was on the form.
But even had Miss P seen  the declaration on the form, her understanding  of the policy  at the 
point of sale would still have been based on what the representative told her about  it. And 
Ive already noted that we have  no evidence of what was discussed in this case. So, whilst 
its possible that the policys key features were clearly explained to Miss P whilst the 
representative took care of the paperwork, on balance, I think  that Skipton has not 
demonstrated that it provided  Miss P with information sufficient to allow  her to make an 
informed choice about the policy. 
Skipton doesnt  dispute that Miss P had a pre-existing medical  condition  when she took out 
PPI with her mortgage in 2002. And in addition Skipton has agreed that the policy  limitations 
meant that Miss P wouldnt have been  able to claim for absence from work  as a result  of her 
pre-existing medical condition. 
The policy summary  says that a Pre-Existing Medical Condition  was, Any condition,  injury, 
illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated symptoms,  whether 
diagnosed or not. So the definition is wider than just any condition that Miss P had before 
taking out the policy.  It could  incorporate  related  conditions  and/or associated symptoms.  
Miss Ps condition was one that could have  developed into other conditions that were 
related and they may not have been covered. Had that been made clear to Miss P at the 
time of the sale I think she would  have thought that the exclusions made  the policy of less 
value to her as it would  be unable to cover her for the things she may have thought would 
be most likely  to lead her to take time off in the future. 
Ive thought carefully about what I think Miss P is likely to have done  if shed understood  the 
full impact on her of the policy  limitations. Ive taken into account that Skipton says it doesnt 
think that Miss P wouldve  been  put off the PPI as it thinks  that her condition hadnt caused  
Ref: DRN58476383her to have  significant  time off work in the past.  And it thinks  Miss P would have  been  
attracted to the PPI anyway as it provided insurance against the risk of being  off work 
through ill health due to other non-pre-existing conditions and also would have been  useful  if 
Miss P lost her job. 
But Miss P has provided evidence that shows that she was much exercised at the time of the 
sale with health  issues. She has provided records that show she had many  trips to her 
health centre about the medical  condition she told us about.  And because  the terms that 
applied to her were wider  than just an exclusion of the condition that exercised Miss P so 
much in 2002, I think that had she would have been  interested to know  that the terms that 
applied to pre existing medical  conditions would have excluded her making  a successful 
claim for that condition  or any related condition. So I would question why someone who was 
placed in a position to make a fully informed decision  would agree to PPI when they would 
find it so hard to claim for accident  and sickness  cover.  
So, on balance, I think Miss P wouldve wanted  to avoid  a policy  which wouldnt have 
covered her for a condition she may reasonably have  expected  at the time to lead to her 
having to take time off work in the future, and which also wouldnt have covered her for any 
condition related to that condition. Looked at overall,  even though Miss P wouldve been able 
to claim other benefits the policy offered, I think this policy limitation wouldve been enough 
to put Miss P off taking  out this PPI. 
So it follows  that I think Skipton should  refund the PPI premiums she paid.   
I have thought about everything that Skipton  has said but it doesnt affect my decision.  I 
considered that Skipton said that Miss P didnt declare her medical condition to them during 
the complaint  process. Skipton feels that this suggests that the issue was not something that 
was important to Miss P. Ive not noted that any searching enquiries  were made of Miss Ps 
health at the time of the sale. In any event, Miss P made no full return of her details to 
Skipton during their consideration of her complaint. And Skipton seems to have gone on to 
issue its final response without that information. Miss P did declare the condition  to this 
Service from the beginning of our consideration of this complaint. And Miss P has provided 
evidence that supports  her testimony that she had the condition  and that she sought a lot of 
support for it at the time of the sale. So I dont attach the weight to Skiptons  point that they 
may have  wished me to. 
And I considered that Skipton said that Miss P would have received the terms and conditions 
upon acceptance of the PPI application.  Skipton thinks that these  would have made the 
exclusion clear and Miss P could  have cancelled the policy if she was concerned  by the 
exclusion. But Im not convinced  that it has ever represented good industry practice to rely 
on post sale documentation to make up for missing or misleading information  at the point of 
sale. So this doesnt  change my view of the case.  
I think that the policy was miss-sold and Skipton needs to do something to put things right.
what Skipton should  do to put things right
Skipton should  put Miss P in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Skipton should:
Pay Miss P the amount she paid each  month  for the PPI
Ref: DRN58476384Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Miss P made any successful claim under the PPI policy,  Skipton can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Skipton to take off tax from this interest. Skipton must 
give Miss P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint about Skipton Building Society who 
should put things right by paying Miss P compensation as Ive detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  17 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5847638