K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about the end of lease charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) have  asked him to pay to refurbish a car he returned to them.
background 
Mr G has been represented throughout this case by his daughter  Miss G but for ease I will 
refer to Mr G in this decision even though Im aware some  of the actions  may have been his 
daughters.
Mr G took receipt of a new car in March  2017.  He financed the deal through  a 12 month hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS and returned the car a year later.
The terms of his agreement said the car should  be returned in a good, clean and marketable 
condition, otherwise charges may be applied.  After Mr G returned the car he got a bill from 
MBFS. They said an inspection had demonstrated  the car wasnt  in the right return  condition 
and theyd need to charge him £1,352.37  to refurbish several areas  of damage.
Mr G was disappointed  with their response and was unable to get MBFS to waive the 
charges that he said werent applicable.
So he referred his complaint  to this service and our adjudicator provided his view. He 
explained that the industry guidelines on fair wear and tear, that hed expect MBFS to 
assess the vehicles  condition against, were  provided by the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA). So he considered the photographs of the damage that had 
been provided alongside the inspection report, against this standard.  
He didnt think the damage to a quarter panel  and to the door were  adequately evidenced 
and MBFS agreed with him and removed these charges.  But he did think damage  to two 
wheels; the windscreen and a bumper were evidenced and beyond reasonable wear  and 
tear and he did agree that a wiper blade  appeared  to be damaged and a charge for a 
missing vehicle registration document was merited. He noted that MBFS had explained they 
were prepared to remove  the charges for the door and quarter panel and provide a discount  
of 30% on the remaining bill. He thought the final bill for £582.66 was reasonable.
But Mr G disagreed. He disputed the windscreen  damage and explained  that the V5 was 
returned with the car. He said it was difficult to assess the damage in the pictures as the 
inspector should  have  included a measurement  aide and he asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN51403962Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The terms of that hire purchase agreement explain that the car should  be kept in a good 
condition and also explain  that Mr G will be responsible for the costs of repairs  if it isnt.
The industry guidelines that Id expect MBFS to use to establish  what was a fair condition 
and what damage  was beyond fair wear and tear are provided by the BVRLA.
The vehicle inspection appears to have been  carried out to that standard and by an 
independent third party. 
Photographs have been supplied of all of the damage that was identified but rulers and 
viewing aids havent  been added.
Ive reviewed each  of the chargeable items.  Ive not been hampered by the lack of 
measuring guides in the picture as considering the size of the panels  and wheels its been  
possible to identify that the panel and wheel damage is in excess  of the BVRLA standard  
and I can clearly see extensive damage  to the front windscreen and accept thats most likely 
to have come from a damaged wiper blade. The relevant guidance from the BVRLA is as 
follows:
scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles age 
and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing.
mouldings - scuffs and scratches up to 25mm  are acceptable  provided  the moulding  
or trim is not broken, cracked  or deformed.
windscreen - light scratching is acceptable  provided it does not interfere with the 
drivers line of sight and any heating elements still work properly.
scuffs totalling  up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable.
the vehicle  should be returned  in a safe, legal and reliable mechanical condition, 
capable of passing an MOT test. I think its likely a damaged  wiper blade  would result 
in a failed MOT
Ive also considered the photographs Mr G provided.  Theyre not date stamped and I think  
its fair to say that they therefore  carry less weight than those provided in the inspection 
report which could only have been  taken once the car was returned. But when I zoom  in to 
Mr Gs pictures  the scratch to the bumper and the damaged windscreen are visible.  I think  
the inspectors  pictures of the alloys are better. Theyre closer up and I therefore prefer  the 
evidence they show. 
I see that Mr G says he did return  the V5 vehicle registration document.  Ive reviewed the 
system notes from MBFS and cant see that was mentioned at the time so Im persuaded 
Ref: DRN51403963theres a little more  evidence the V5 wasnt present on inspection. And even if it wasnt  
present I see that MBFS have reduced  the charge by a further 30%.  So I think that would 
reasonably cover any mistake that may have been made about the presence of the V5.
So overall, I agree that the remaining charges have been fairly made and I think MBFS have 
been reasonable when  agreeing to reduce them  further. I dont think  they need to take any 
further action  and agree that a final bill of £582.66  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to reduce the final bill to £582.66 and remove any adverse reports  they 
may have  made to Mr Gs credit  file in relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5140396