K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  wont refund withdrawals he says he didnt 
make from his account.
background
Mr N says he didnt make all of the withdrawals from his account in February and March  
2019. When he complained to J.P. Morgan he said he hadnt made six withdrawals each for 
£200 and totalling £1,200. He had indicated  he wasnt  clear which he hadnt made and when 
he first contacted this service said there  was about  £600 in all.
J.P. Morgan  said it wouldnt be making a refund.  The withdrawals were made when the 
genuine chip on his bank card was read and the correct PIN entered. Mr N had told it he had 
his card in his possession and genuine  withdrawals had been  made  around  the same  time. 
And there was no obvious way in which someone had found out his PIN. It hadnt  requested  
CCTV and said that this would be a matter  for the authorities.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Mr N hadnt  been 
consistent about the payments he disputed. She had considered in her view two disputed 
transactions  each  for £200. One of these was carried out at the cash machine used for all 
other genuine payments and one was over the counter at the same location.  She said that 
the card hadnt  been cloned and the pattern of payments wasnt  consistent with use by a 
fraudster. There was also no explanation of how someone would have been able to obtain  
the card and find out the PIN to make transactions in between genuine ones.
Mr N who is represented in this complaint  didnt  agree. He was unhappy that there was no 
CCTV and said he was aware that cards could be cloned, and his PIN could have been seen 
by a hidden camera  at the cash point.  He had referred the matter to police.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr N wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr N either authorise  the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card?
Ive seen the available evidence about the way the payments were made. And Im satisfied  
that the chip was read, and the correct PIN entered each  time. So, I consider that the 
payments were authenticated.
Ref: DRN52658602But I need to decide whether Mr N consented to them. Hes said that when he checked his 
balance in March  2019 the amount was lower than he expected. He thought that his card 
could have been cloned and hes shown that he reported what happened to the authorities.
I need first to say that this service  hasnt seen evidence of the chip on a card being  cloned  
for general  use. So, I dont accept that this was the explanation here. And the pattern of 
payments in my view isnt consistent with a fraudster  being permanently able to take out 
money. Ive have expected that to have happened as quickly  as possible as there  would 
have been the risk of detection.
I know Mr N and his representative think that what should have happened is for J.P. Morgan 
to obtain CCTV  of the withdrawals to determine who made  them. Its explained thats not its 
process and that CCTV isnt retained indefinitely. But I also think that CCTV even where  
available often doesnt help resolve whether  the person withdrawing money was acting with 
authority or not. 
There are possible ways  in which the PIN on the card could have  been  discovered  for 
example if someone  else looked over Mr Ns shoulder when he was inputting it. Theres  no 
clear time that happened here.  But Id also need to think that a person who somehow 
discovered the PIN was able to get hold of the card and then replace it  in between  times 
when Mr N accepts he was making genuine withdrawals. Hes said he had the card with him, 
and I dont think that this is a likely  explanation.
Hes also said that he didnt tell the PIN to anyone so I cant see that someone  close to him 
was able to make the withdrawals either.  And thats  not his explanation of what happened.
I cant say exactly what happened here,  but I need to think  about what is most likely. Im 
afraid Ive ruled  out as unlikely the explanations other than Mr N consenting to and 
authorising all the withdrawals from his account. So, I know  Im going to disappoint both him 
when I say that I dont  have a basis to require J.P. Morgan to refund any of the withdrawals.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5265860