K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. The PPI was cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment. Mr and Mrs M say 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think Halifax  made it clear 
enough to them that they had a choice about  buying the PPI. This is because  what Halifax  
and Mr and Mrs M have  said and given us isnt enough overall  to make me think Halifax did 
make this clear enough.
Mr and Mrs Ms financial adviser  arranged their mortgage. The PPI sale was conducted  by 
Halifax  probably  following  a referral from the adviser. Mr and Mrs M believe they didnt ask 
for the PPI. And they think the sale was done by post. But from what  Halifax has told us 
about sales of this kind, I understand the sale wouldve been  conducted  by phone  with 
paperwork being sent afterwards.
So I think this was a phone sale. And in deciding to take the PPI, its likely Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve mostly relied on the information  they were given during  the sales  call. But I havent 
seen a sales script or anything else from the time to show that Halifax most likely presented 
the PPI on the phone in a clear way as something that was optional. And Mr and Mrs M 
havent said anything  to make me think they took the PPI knowing they didnt have to.
Taking everything into account,  I dont have enough to say on balance  that Halifax  made it 
clear enough  to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice about the PPI. So, based on what  I 
have, I think Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI even though  they didnt really want  it.
Ive taken into account all Halifaxs  comments,  but I still think  I should uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN56145082what the business should  do to put things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The PPI should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and Halifax  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI, Halifax  can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
 Businesses  have to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5614508