K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that First Response Finance  Ltd (FRF) mis-sold her a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in conjunction with a hire purchase agreement. 
background
Mrs N took out a hire purchase agreement when she bought  a car in July 2011. At the same 
time FRF sold her a PPI policy.
The policy cost just over £14 each month and it covered Mrs N in the event she wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment   and it wouldve provided a monthly  
benefit equivalent to her loan repayments following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  Mrs N told us she didnt  ask for the policy; it was added to 
her account  without her knowledge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ns case. And having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Ive been able to listen to a call recording of the conversation between Mrs N and the FRF 
advisor. And Im satisfied that the advisor  explains that Mrs N has a choice  about  purchasing  
the PPI. The advisor  gives Mrs N a quote for the loan with PPI and without  PPI and asks 
Mrs N whether shed like to purchase  PPI. And on more than one occasion, Mrs N confirms 
she wants to have  the benefit  of PPI with her loan. 
Taking all this into consideration,  Im satisfied that FRF gave Mrs N a choice about 
purchasing PPI and the she agreed  to take it out.
FRF recommended  the PPI to Mrs N so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover   she told us she 
was employed and in good health.  And she seems to have had a need  for the cover  she 
had limited work benefits and no other  means  that she couldve used if she wasnt  working  
due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Its possible the information FRF gave Mrs N about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But the cost of the policy was explained  in the telephone call; the advisor confirmed 
the cost of the policy; the interest it would incur and the total cost of the policy over the 36 
months of the loan.  He also confirmed the monthly cost of the PPI; how much  she was 
paying for the cover each month. So I think Mrs N wouldve reasonably  understood how 
much the PPI would  cost if she kept the policy for its full term. And if she decided she no 
longer wanted  the policy or thought that she could no longer afford it, she couldve cancelled  
it at any time without penalty.
I think that Mrs N chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN58453592affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Mrs N and her representatives have said,  but these points 
dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs N paid on her policy  and whether FRF treated 
her unfairly. 
FRF told us that the commission for Mrs Ns policy was less than half of what she paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how FRF has been working this out and based on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ns commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think FRF treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt  need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mrs N paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5845359