K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) is responsible  for 
poor service under  his home emergency  insurance  policy.
background
In December  2016 Mr B arranged cover which included his central  heating  boiler  
and system.  He agreed  to pay an annual premium by instalments.
The policy was branded with the name  of an insurance intermediary. Ive seen the policy  
schedule, the policy terms and welcome  letter issued in December 2016. From those, I 
find that a syndicate of insurers was responsible for dealing with claims.
In December  2017 Mr B complained about  delay in arranging an annual service of the 
boiler. The intermediary  sent a final response letter.
The policy was renewed with effect from 18 January 2018. The intermediary had 
changed the policy underwriters. RSA was responsible for dealing with claims.
In April 2018  Mr B complained that his insurer had sent an engineer  who left a mess and 
hadnt replaced a valve  for the boiler. The intermediary sent a final response letter offering 
Mr B £50.00  as a gesture  of goodwill.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaint as though it was against  the intermediary.  He 
recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think the 
intermediarys engineers had contacted Mr B to arrange the boiler service or other  
appointments as promised. He recommended that the intermediary should offer Mr B 
£100.00.
The investigator didnt  think that the intermediary should refund premiums  or make 
an allowance for Mr B to pay his own plumber to replace the valve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to RSA on 31 January  2019. I summarise my findings:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can only deal with a complaint against one 
regulated financial  firm at a time. And for a complaint about a claim for the benefit of 
an insurance policy, we deal with the complaint against the insurer responsible for 
dealing with the claim.
Mr B was complaining that he hadnt  had an annual service during  the first policy  
year. That was a complaint about  a claim  for which the syndicate  of insurers was 
responsible.
But Mr Bs main complaint is that his insurer should  either agree to pay his plumber 
to fix the valve or refund  his premium. Thats a complaint  about  a claim for which 
Ref: DRN53463312RSA was responsible.  So was going  to deal with Mr Bs complaint insofar as its 
about what happened or shouldve happened from 18 January  2018.
Ive seen the policy schedule for the year from 18 January 2018. That says that the 
policy was underwritten by RSA. The intermediary has sent us the policy  terms 
(dated 7 November  2017). They confirm that the policy was underwritten  by RSA.
Those policy terms applied to Mr Bs policy from 18 January 2018. And they say that 
the intermediary will deal with claims and complaints on behalf of RSA. So where I 
refer to RSA I include  with effect from 15 January 2018  the intermediary, its 
engineers and any others for whose actions I hold RSA responsible.
Mr B didnt  have the alternative of choosing not to have the annual service.  So the 
service was part of  or ancillary  to - the insurance.
The policy didnt provide Mr B with the right to claim reimbursement or partial 
reimbursement of a plumber of his choice. And I couldnt say that it was unfair 
or unreasonable that RSA declined this  preferring to use its own engineers.
As RSA had arranged visits in January and April 2018 I didnt find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  it to refund any part of the premium Mr B paid for that policy 
year.
From what  Mr B has said the boiler never stopped  providing heat and hot water.
But I found some shortcomings in the April 2018 visit and follow-up communication. 
From what  Mr B has said, I thought this had caused him some  irritation and worry 
about what might happen  with his boiler.  So I found  it fair and reasonable to direct 
RSA to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold  this complaint in part. I was minded to direct  Royal  & Sun Alliance  
Insurance plc to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr B hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
RSA agrees with the provisional decision. It says it has already paid £50.00.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the December 2016 policy schedule, I think the cover  started  on 18 January 2017  
and the policy renewal date was 18 January 2018.
I take on board that Mr B was complaining that he hadnt had an annual service  during  the 
first policy  year. But I will deal with Mr Bs complaint insofar as its about what happened  or 
shouldve happened  from 18 January  2018.
Ref: DRN53463313The policy covered loss of central  heating or hot water following a boiler breakdown.
The policy schedule said the annual  service wasnt part of the insurance.  And it had its 
own specified cost of £60.00. But Mr B didnt have the alternative of choosing  not to have 
the annual service. So I find that the service was part of  or ancillary to - the insurance.
The intermediary has provided us with a schedule  of call-outs. It records  that the annual 
service was done on 18 December 2017. But the schedule looks incomplete to me. So - 
give or take a couple of days - I accept Mr Bs statement that it was on 24 January 2018  that 
one of RSAs engineers did the boiler service. He identified the seized valve but he said he 
couldnt replace  it then and there.
Ive seen an email from Mr B dated  20 February 2018. It included  the following:
I was waiting to see how long it would take to fix the issue identified by 
the engineer who discovered it whilst carrying  out the long overdue service  
on 22 January.
I would like [Mr T] to be asked to return to resolve it because at least  I can trust 
his knowledge  and capabilities.
So I dont  think  Mr B had been  without heating or hot water in January or February. 
From the intermediarys file, I think Mr B chased again on 27 March.
Another of RSAs engineers attended Mr B's property on 13 April 2018.  But he arrived 
unexpectedly when Mr B was out and only his daughter was there. From what  Mr B 
has said, I accept that his daughter heard the engineer use inappropriate  language.  
But the engineer was able to free the seized  valve and re-pressurise the boiler.
I accept Mr Bs statement  that the engineer  pressurised the boiler  to 1.6 bars  well above 
the manuals recommended maximum of 1.2 bars. Mr B called the same  day and was 
given advice on how to lower the pressure. I also accept Mr Bs statement that the engineer  
had left some dirty marks.
Mr B wrote a letter of complaint the next day. He asked that his own plumber could 
replace the valve  and for the insurer to reimburse the amount  it would  have paid for one of 
its engineers to do so. Alternatively Mr B asked  for a refund of some  of his premium.
On 18 May 2018, the intermediary replied to Mr Bs complaint. It said that one of its 
engineers had been tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr B to arrange an appointment. Mr 
B has said he hadnt received any such contact. And RSA hasnt been able to provide  
enough details  or records  of the unsuccessful  contacts.  So Im not satisfied that it had 
done enough to contact Mr B.
The final response  letter offered Mr B £50.00  as a gesture of goodwill. Im not satisfied that 
the letter made clear  whether RSA accepted that the valve needed replacing or whether the 
policy would cover this.
But in any event the policy didnt  provide  Mr B with the right to claim reimbursement or 
partial reimbursement of a plumber  of his choice. And I cant  say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable that RSA declined this  preferring to use its own engineers.
Ref: DRN53463314As RSA had arranged visits in January and April 2018 I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct it to refund any part of the premium Mr B paid for that policy  year.
From what  Mr B has said the boiler never stopped  providing heat and hot water.
But Ive found some  shortcomings in the April 2018  visit and follow-up communication.  From  
what Mr B has said, I think this has caused him some irritation  and worry about what might  
happen with his boiler. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to pay Mr B £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience (less the £50.00 goodwill offer if RSA has already paid it).
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint  in part. I 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress  and 
inconvenience (less the £50.00 goodwill offer if RSA has already paid it).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5346331