K820x#14complaint
Mr A brings this complaint on behalf of his business  OSTW. He complains that Barclays  
Bank Plc has unfairly  registered  an alert under  the Visa Merchant Alert Service (VMAS) and 
the Mastercard Member  Alert to control High Risk service (MATCH).  Mr A wants Barclays  to 
remove the markers.
background
Mr A had a merchant services account  with Barclays which enabled him to take debit and 
credit card payments from customers.  
In December 2017, following a review of Mr As account Barclays decided  to terminate its 
agreement with Mr A without further notice. And when Mr A queried  this, he was told that 
due to fraudulent  claims made against payments processed by OSTW between  8 and 23 
November 2017,  Barclays was entitled  to take such action.
Barclays also said it was obliged to register an alert with the VMAS  and MATCH  although  
this was not to be seen  as a blacklisting  tool. And the markers shouldnt prevent  Mr A from 
trading using other card facilities. 
Mr A came to this service  and asked that we consider his complaint. He said Barclays  had 
not been prepared to discuss  matters  with him and had left him in financial difficulties with 
little possibility of trading.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr As complaint. He said Barclays had acted in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the agreement. And it hadnt  done anything 
wrong when it notified VMAS and MATCH. Mr A disagreed. So the matter has come  to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  to me that it is not the legality of Barclays decision which  Mr A is challenging  but 
more the reasonableness. He says that it has not taken into account the circumstances of 
the short term nature of the frauds and has not acted fairly when it made the notification to 
VMAS and MATCH.
So that all parties  are clear, I accept  that under the terms and conditions  of the contract  
between Barclays and OSTW, the former is entitled, in certain  circumstances, to withdraw  its 
services without notice, withhold funds and register a merchant with the VMAS and MATCH.
Mr A submits that he hasnt  done  anything wrong  and unbeknown to him accepted payments 
from a customer using  cards which didnt belong to them. He feels  that the alerts  on VMAS 
and MATCH have prevented him from obtaining card services  elsewhere.
Im afraid I have to tell Mr A that I cannot tell Barclays how it should  enforce the terms of its 
contract. Commercial decisions  such as these are not something which this service  would 
normally interfere with.
Ref: DRN52171032I know Mr A says that finding  an alternative  supplier has proved difficult but the alert with 
VMAS and MATCH have to be registered and I cannot fairly ask Barclays  to remove them.
I sympathise with the position which Mr A now finds himself in. None  of this is his fault  he 
carried out what he thought were legitimate  transactions. But this is not Barclays  fault either  
 so I cannot ask that it does anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5217103