K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the amount NFU Mutual Insurance  Society Limited (NFU) offered to 
settle his home contents claim.
All references to NFU include  its agents.
background
Mr M made a claim to NFU for accidental  damage  to his television. 
NFU arranged for an engineer to inspect the TV. The engineer said the television was 
beyond economic repair and gave a market value of £1,022.06 (including VAT) for a 
replacement TV. Mr M decided he wanted a cash settlement rather than a replacement TV. 
So NFU offered Mr M £1,022.06 (minus the policy excess) to settle his claim.
Mr M complained that this was not enough. He said hed paid £2,600  for his television 
around eight years  before.
NFU said it thought its offer was fair. It said it understood the amount it had offered was 
significantly lower than the amount Mr M had paid for his television. But claims are 
considered on a like for like basis and not on current market  trends.  It said if it had paid out 
based on current market  trends, Mr M would  have been put in a better position than he was 
before the television was damaged. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought NFU had acted 
fairly and in line with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr M disagreed. He said he didnt think the television  NFU had offered to replace his with 
was of the same quality  as the one hed had. So Mr Ms complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant  industry  rules say the insurer should  handle claims promptly  and fairly.  Ive 
needed to consider whether NFUs  offer to settle Mr Ms claim was fair and reasonable and 
in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policy terms say that NFU will settle  a contents claim by paying  the cost of repairing or 
replacing the CONTENTS. NFU has sent us a copy of the engineers report showing the 
model of the suggested replacement TV and its cost. I can see that the suggested  
replacement is of the same brand and size as Mr Ms previous television and it looks to be of 
a similar  quality. The report also says Mr M had opted for a cash  settlement.
Ref: DRN52184992Mr M says he doesnt think the replacement  television was of the same quality as his 
previous television.  He says hed had a look at the replacement television in a shop and he 
didnt think the picture  was as good. But I havent  seen  any evidence to show  that the 
specification was below the standard of Mr Ms old television. On balance, I think the 
replacement television NFU offered was likely  to be of a similar standard as the one that was 
damaged. 
I appreciated that the television NFU offered cost significantly  less than the one Mr M paid 
for eight  years before. Mr M says his old television was cutting  edge when he bought  it. But 
the purpose of this type of insurance is to put the policyholder  back  in the position they were 
in just before  the loss or damage  happened. Technology  develops  over time resulting in 
prices going down as new technology replaces  previous  technology. So I think  its probable 
that a television  of a similar standard to Mr Ms previous television would be significantly  
lower in price. 
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  that the replacement offered to Mr M was a reasonable match.  
From what  Ive seen and been  told, Mr M chose to have a cash settlement, rather  than have 
the television replaced. So I think NFUs offer to settle his claim based on the market  value 
of the replacement television was reasonable. 
Overall I think  NFU has acted fairly and in line with its policy terms and conditions. So I dont 
think its done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5218499