K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  declined  his travel insurance  claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
background
Mr M and his family were  due to fly to Europe and pick up a hire car at the destination 
airport. Their flight was delayed by about eight  hours. Mr M says because  of the delay the 
hire business said he was a 'no show' and he incurred additional cost of 185 euros  (about 
£160) in taking  out a new car hire contract.
Mr M claimed for the additional cost from the airline.  He says he, and each member of his 
family, received £221.24 under the relevant European Union (EU) regulation for delayed  
flights but his additional  car hire cost wasnt covered. He claimed the car hire cost from his 
travel insurance through his bank account.  UKI is the insurer.  
UKI declined  the claim. It relied on the following policy term under the travel delay section:
Claims settlement
You must seek recompense from the operator where you should be entitled to compensation 
(e.g. due to EU Passenger Rights).  Any amount you can recover will be deducted from any 
claim we pay.
UKI said the compensation Mr M received from the airline was more than the car hire cost 
he claimed. 
Mr M complained to us. He said the compensation paid by the airline was for very specific 
items. He sent a link to the Civil Aviation  Authority  (CAA) website detailing the items.
Our investigator thought UKI couldnt  fairly rely on the above policy term and it should 
reassess the claim.
UKI disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy wording is clear that 
any compensation Mr M recovers will be deducted  from any claim it pays for delay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  UKI must reassess the claim. Ill explain why.
When Mr Ms pre-booked flight  is delayed  the policy covers up to £1,000 each insured 
person after the first four hours' delay for additional  expenses including travel  due to the 
delay. There are policy exclusions.
I need to decide whether UKI fairly  and reasonably  relied on the claims settlement policy  
term to decline Mr Ms claim. I accept the policy term is clear but I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for UKI to apply the term in the circumstances of this case. 
Ref: DRN51640962The relevant  EU regulation says in Mr Ms delay circumstances  the airline must pay 
compensation for the disruption based  on delay time and costs for extras for care and 
assistance. The CAA website says care and assistance extras are food, drink, access  to 
communication, accommodation and travel to that accommodation.
The EU regulation  doesnt give payment for the additional car hire cost Mr M paid. Ive seen 
no evidence that he can recover that loss from elsewhere. 
I dont think UKI can fairly say the compensation Mr M received from the airline  should  be 
offset against his claim for additional  car hire expenses.  They are separate issues   
compensation for the delay and the financial loss of the car hire expense.
As UKI cant fairly rely on the claims settlement policy term to decline the claim it must 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, limits and excess.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
I require U K Insurance Limited to reassess  the claim in line with the remaining policy terms,  
limits and excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164096