K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  (L&G)  turned down a 
claim she made following  the death of her partner, Mr M, under their life assurance policy. 
Shes also complained  about how long L&G took to assess  her claim. 
background
Miss S and Mr M took out a joint life assurance  policy with L&G in February 2015. As part of 
the application, Mr M was asked whether  hed seen  a health  professional  in the last five 
years for raised blood pressure  or raised  cholesterol;  another  question asked if hed ever 
had a heart condition . He was also asked  if hed seen a health professional in the last two 
years for chest pain. Mr M sadly passed away in March 2018.  Miss S made  a claim to L&G. 
Miss S complained to L&G about the time it was taking to assess the claim. L&G recognised 
it had taken a while, but didnt consider that to be because of any significant  mistakes on its 
part. 
Miss S didnt accept  L&Gs response  and so she referred her complaint to our service. She 
felt L&G was making unnecessary enquiries whilst assessing her claim and the delay was 
putting her in financial difficulty. 
In November 2018 L&G refused the claim. It said Mr M shouldve told them  about  his high 
blood pressure  and his heart condition by answering yes to the relevant questions  on the 
application. If he had, L&G said it wouldnt  have  covered him. L&G cancelled the policy but 
returned the premiums.  Miss S didnt  agree  with L&Gs assessment of the claims and 
wanted us to look at that part of her complaint. L&G was happy for us to do that. 
An investigator here considered the complaint. He thought Mr M shouldve  told L&G about 
his raised blood  pressure,  but didnt think he misled them in connection to his heart  
condition. 
Our investigator looked at what L&G wouldve done  if it had known about Mr Ms blood 
pressure. L&G confirmed  it wouldve still offered cover to Mr M, but the premiums wouldve 
been more. To put things right our investigator  asked L&G to calculate what  it wouldve 
charged for the policy and in turn what percentage of the claim (plus interest)  it should pay to 
Miss S.  Our  investigator also asked L&G to pay Miss S £350 for the distress  and 
inconvenience shed  been caused by having  the claim turned down. 
Ref: DRN57127662In terms of the delay,  our investigator thought there were  occasions when L&G couldve 
done things quicker.  But he recognised that the claim would always  have taken a while  to 
complete given the level of investigation  needed. So he didnt think L&G needed to do 
anything in connection to this part of Miss Ss complaint. 
Miss S accepted  our investigators opinion. 
L&G didnt agree. It maintained that Mr M answered  a number of questions  on the 
application form incorrectly.  It said he shouldve answered yes to having  raised  blood  
pressure and high cholesterol. L&G said that had Mr M answered this question correctly, he 
wouldve been asked  a further  question  about whether hed ever had an ECG which  caused  
the doctor concern or further action. L&G provided evidence  to show  Mr M had had an ECG 
and that further  investigations had been  arranged,  and so said he shouldve answered  yes to 
this question too. 
L&G also said Mr M shouldve answered  yes to the question about whether  hed ever had a 
heart condition. It said the information  itd seen clearly showed that Mr M had been 
diagnosed with a heart  condition in 2003.
L&G also referred  to Mr Ms medical  records which showed hed had an episode of chest  
pain in 2014. It said that a question on the application asked  whether  in the last two years  
hed seen a health professional for chest pain. So L&G said Mr M shouldve answered  yes 
to this question  on the 2015  application.    
L&G also said Mr M failed to properly  check the details he disclosed when he had the 
opportunity to do so on the check your details forms sent out in March 2015. 
L&G said if Mr M had answered  the questions correctly, further enquiries into his health 
wouldve shown he was in prison. Had it known this during the underwriting  of 
Mr Ms application, L&G provided evidence to show it wouldnt have offered cover  due to the 
associated risks.      
Our investigator considered L&Gs response and changed his view on the outcome. He was 
satisfied by what L&G had now told us that had Mr M disclosed his health conditions  - his 
high blood pressure and recent chest  pain - L&G wouldve known he was in prison. And as 
such, he wouldnt have  been offered cover. On that basis,  our investigator was satisfied  that 
L&G was right to have refused Miss Ss claim and cancel the policy.  
L&G accepted our investigators  opinion. 
Miss S didnt accept  our investigators  opinion and so her case has been  passed to me to 
decide. Miss S was understandably disappointed that our investigator  was now saying L&G 
had done nothing wrong. She said she wasnt aware that Mr M had any health conditions 
and considered him to be fit and healthy.  
Miss S spoke about L&Gs  handling  of the claim and how shed found this very stressful and 
upsetting. She said that because of L&Gs delays, shed been left £3,700 in debt. 
Miss S didnt accept  that Mr M being in prison  formed part of L&Gs  decision making. She 
said there was no question on the application  which asks about  whether youve been in 
prison. She felt L&G was now changing the goal posts and was treating her unfairly and 
without compassion.  
Ref: DRN57127663Miss S also raised a number of concerns about the way our investigator handled her case. 
We responded to those  concerns on 9 May 2019.  I wont refer to them  as part of this final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss S as this has been a difficult  time for her. But 
Id like to take some  time to explain how Ive reached my decision.
L&Gs decision not to pay the claim and refuse cover 
To determine  whats fair in a case like this, we look at the relevant law. This is found in the
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosures & Representations) Act 2012  CIDRA  for short.  CIDRA
sets out that when applying for insurance, a customer must take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. In practice  that means  they must answer any questions the 
insurer asks truthfully and to the best of their knowledge.
CIDRA sets out what insurers can do if a customer fails to answer their application 
questions correctly. It first says that the error only qualifies  if it wouldve made  a 
difference to what  the insurer  wouldve done  if itd known the truth.  In other words, 
insurers need to show that the wrong  information  influenced  their decision to offer cover 
and on what terms.
Opposing arguments  have been presented about  what Mr M shouldve disclosed on the 
application about his heart condition and weight. But whats  clear  from the medical evidence  
Ive seen is that Mr M was undergoing treatment for high blood pressure at the time of the 
application. Hed also suffered from chest  pain. So Im satisfied that Mr M shouldve 
disclosed this information to L&G in response to the clear questions asked. Had he done so, 
L&G wouldve  got Mr Ms medical records. From those records L&G wouldve seen that 
Mr M was in prison.
In line with CIDRA, L&G are entitled  to consider what it wouldve done differently had it 
known all the relevant  information at the time of the application. As part of our investigation 
L&G provided us with Information from its underwriters which  shows that Mr Ms application 
for cover wouldve been refused if itd known  he was in prison.
Because L&G hadnt relied on this point before,  I can understand why Miss S found this 
difficult to accept. Miss S is correct that theres  no question on the application to ask whether 
a person has been in prison.  But if this information  becomes known  to L&G during the 
underwriting of an application, then its entitled to consider this as part of its underwriting  
decision. 
So I cant say L&G has acted unfairly by refusing Miss Ss claim. I completely understand 
how upsetting  this is for Miss S. Shes  done  nothing wrong and had no reason to believe  the 
claim would be declined.  But ultimately, Im satisfied L&G would never have offered Mr M 
cover had it known about his circumstances at the time. I know its of little consolation to 
Miss S, but Im pleased to see L&G has refunded the premiums  paid in respect of Mr Ms 
cover and that her cover is still in place. 
Ref: DRN57127664Delays 
It took L&G from March  to November 2018 to consider Miss Ss claim. I can see that L&G 
made a number of enquires of Mr Ms GP to find out more  about his medical history.  Such 
enquiries are not uncommon in assessing claims like this. And the evidence  thats  presented 
can be at the benefit  of either party. But insurance companies have to be able to justify the 
decisions they make and satisfy themselves that the medical evidence supports those 
decisions. 
It did take some time for L&G to get all the information it needed.  But thats not, in itself, 
evidence of unnecessary delay. There were  some internal delays  in L&Gs  processes that 
delayed the outcome of the claim for around  two weeks.  But L&G has accepted and 
apologised for that. Given this claim was always likely to have taken a while to consider, I 
dont think L&Gs delays  were significant.  So I wont be asking it to do anything more.    
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5712766