K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained to Lloyds Bank PLC about  a level term assurance (LTA) policy she 
took out in January 2004 which  provided life cover  and terminal illness benefit of £100,000 
over 15 years.
Specifically, she says the policy  was misrepresented to her as she was advised it would pay 
her £4,000 if she hadnt claimed on it when it expired in January 2019.  Otherwise,  she didnt 
need a policy providing life cover  over a fixed term because she never had a mortgage loan 
to protect. She did have young  children at the time for whom she needed to provide financial 
protection. But she wasnt aware  that life cover  was restricted to a fixed  term of 15 years and 
she no longer has any life cover in place for them.
background
In response, Lloyds  confirmed Mrs H applied for this policy in her local branch on a no-
advice basis. The policy she was asked to consider offered life cover and terminal  illness  
benefit of £50,000 or £100,000 over 15 years. When completing the policy  application Mrs H 
chose cover of £100,000  and signed a declaration to confirm  that she hadnt received any 
advice from Lloyds as to whether the policy was right for her and the level of cover she 
required. 
The key features documents Mrs H received confirmed all the policy  details, including  the 
level of cover, the term of the policy, its expiry  date and the monthly  premium,  which  enabled 
her to exercise her statutory right to cancel  the policy  without penalty  if she felt it wasnt  right 
for her. There is no mention of the policy providing  a value of £4,000 at the end of its term.
Mrs Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who felt it couldnt be upheld.
Briefly, he agreed with Lloyds that the policy had been presented  to Mrs H by a 
representative of her local branch on a no-advice basis. It was her responsibility,  having 
studied details  of the policy, to decide  whether it was appropriate for her needs at the time. 
Lloyds gave her no advice, or made  any recommendation as to whether the policy was 
suitable for her.
The investigator saw from her policy application that Mrs H chose cover of £100,000, which  
the policy provided over 15 years  and she signed  a declaration confirming that she hadnt  
received any guidance  from Lloyds when  choosing this policy  as to whether it was right for 
her. The policy terms and condition she received states that: if the cash  sum has not been  
paid out during the term of the plan, the plan will end and youll  get nothing back. Because  
you have received no advice on the suitability of this product, you will not be charged  for 
advice and that if you dont make your payments  your cover will stop,  your plan will end 
and youll  get nothing back.
So, the investigator was satisfied that the policy  provided Mrs H no residual value and shes 
not been able to provide  any evidence that the policy would pay £4,000  when it expired.
In response, Mrs H disagreed with the investigators  assessment  and requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN57805102So, as no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been referred to me for 
review.
 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the documentation Mrs H would 
have been provided before and after she applied for this policy.
Mrs H has said that, on visiting her local branch of Lloyds,  she was asked if she held any 
form of life cover. On confirming that she did not, she was presented details  of the Level  
Term Assurance (15-year) Plan to consider.  While  I appreciate  why Mrs H might  conclude 
from this that the policy was being sold to her at the time,  the representative was not 
advising that she needed life cover; neither was he or she recommending Mrs H to take out 
this policy. The representative would just have been  asking  her to consider that, if she did 
require life cover, and didnt hold any such cover, she might like to consider  this policy  from 
the details she was provided and decide whether or not it suited her requirement.
As I wasnt present at the meeting in January 2004  to know precisely  what  Mrs H was told, I 
have to consider  whether the policy details Mrs H was provided at the time led her to believe 
it operated in the way she claims. Lloyds  responsibility was to ensure the policy was 
explained to Mrs H in a way that enabled  her to make a fully informed decision.
With this in mind, I can see the policy application she completed confirms the policy is a 
Level Term Assurance (15-year) Plan under  which she could choose either £50,000 or 
£100,000 of cover. Mrs H chose pay for cover  of £100,000. She signed the application to 
confirm that: I have  selected the level of cover from 2 options  given. I have not received any 
guidance on whether this is right for me taking account of my own individual  circumstances.
While the policy application doesnt  indicate whether the policy  does, or doesnt, provide  a 
value at the end of its 15-year term, Mrs H received  a Key Features  Document (KFD) and a 
policy schedule as part of her statutory right to cancel the policy  within 30 days without 
penalty if she decided  from the details provided that the policy  was not what she wanted.
The policy schedule confirmed that the policy started on 8 January 2004 and provided life 
cover and terminal illness cover of £100,000 over 15 years until 8 January 2019  when  the 
policy expired, for which she paid a monthly premium £21.98. 
Among the risk factors listed in the KFD, Mrs H was advised that Theres  no cash-in value 
at any time and that If you choose to apply for the Level Term Assurance Plan, you will 
have received no advice on the plans suitability for your individual  circumstances.
Furthermore, in the Questions and Answers section of the KFD headed: What  is a Level 
Term Assurance Plan? , Mrs H would  have read that: 
Its a 15 year insurance plan that can pay out a cash sum of either £50,000 or £100,000 
depending  on the level of cover  you selected at outset.
Well  pay out the cash sum before  the plan ends if you die or youre diagnosed as having  a 
terminal  illness.
Ref: DRN57805103If the cash sum has not been paid out during the term of the plan, the plan will end and 
youll get nothing back.
I dont doubt Mrs H when  she says she was told the policy would pay her £4,000 if she 
survived the 15-year  term. But I would need to see some evidence  that representative did 
tell her that the policy provided her £4,000 at the end of the term and that, in doing so, this 
benefit became  a contractual part of the policy. Mrs H has not been able to provide any 
evidence to his effect,  and the evidence that does exist tells me the policy she applied  for 
provided £100,000 if she died or contracted a terminal  illness within  its 15 year term and 
that, if she made no claim on the policy during  this term, it expired with no cash value.
Accordingly, I cant agree that the policy should pay her £4,000. I have  to conclude that she 
took out the policy in good  faith based  on information she received from Lloyds in 2004 that, 
in my view,  didnt misrepresent the nature and terms of the policy.    
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780510