K820x#14complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the service he got from Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited when 
he wanted to make a claim on his car insurance.
 
background
Mr Is car was involved in a hit and run incident on 23 December 2018. Another car reversed 
into his car, causing  damage to its front, and then drove off without stopping.
Mr I had two dash cams fitted  to his car. One was Markerstudys, which was locked; the 
other was his own. Mr I sent Markerstudy his dash cam footage. This showed  the incident  
clearly but didnt show the registration  number of the car that hit him. Mr I wanted 
Markerstudy to collect its dash cam footage,  in case it did show the registration number. But 
Markerstudy never collected  the footage. Mr I also wanted CC TV footage from the area 
collected and, while Markerstudy wrote  to a bus operator for its footage, it seems this wasnt 
supplied.
When Mr I first spoke  to Markerstudy after the incident, he was told (incorrectly) that, 
because he wasnt at fault for the incident,  his no claims  discount wouldnt be affected  if he 
claimed on his policy.  
Mr I complained to Markerstudy  that he was given incorrect  information  when  he reported 
the incident, that Markerstudys dash cam footage was never  collected, and that he got poor 
service generally during  the handling of his claim. Mr I also says he suffered loss of earnings 
because of Markerstudys failure to collect the dash  cam footage and deal with his claim 
promptly. Markerstudy agreed the service Mr I had had was below the standard it expected 
and offered him £200 for the distress  and inconvenience hed been caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr I brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Is 
complaint thought Markerstudys offer of £200  for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him was fair. Mr I has asked for an ombudsman to decide  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. I think  Markerstudys offer of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  its caused him is fair and reasonable. I know this 
will disappoint Mr I but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help him to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
Mr I was initially told by Markerstudy that, because  he didnt cause the incident,  any claim he 
made on his policy would be treated as a no-fault claim and his no claims discount would be 
unaffected. This information was incorrect. Mr Is policy  said if he made a claim on it for an 
accident he didnt  think was his fault and Markerstudy made a payment, this would affect  his 
no claims discount unless  Markerstudy  could  recover  its outlay in full from the person 
responsible. 
In Mr Is case, because  the person responsible hadnt been traced, under the terms of his 
policy any claim he made on it wouldve  affected his no claims discount. This term is 
Ref: DRN52402732standard across  motor  insurance contracts. And, while Markerstudy  clearly  gave  Mr I the 
wrong information initially, it quickly corrected its mistake.
Markerstudy didnt collect  its dash cam footage  from Mr Is car. It says it asked a third party  
expert to collect it but, because that person was on holiday  at the time, this didnt happen 
within the time-frame  Markerstudy told Mr I it would  and, indeed, hasnt happened at all. I 
think Mr I got very poor service from Markerstudy here.  But I also have  to say its unclear if 
Markerstudys footage  wouldve shown the registration details of the car that reversed into 
Mr I. I say this because  Ive watched  Mr Is dash cam footage and it looks as if a reflection 
on the cars number  plate  obscures its registration.  So I dont think its likely  having 
Markerstudys dash cam footage wouldve changed  how Markerstudy  assessed  his claim. 
Ive also listened  to the phone calls Mr I made to Markerstudy following the incident. I can 
understand his frustration  with how Markerstudy treated him. For example, hes passed to 
lots of different  call handlers on different  calls and is also kept on hold for a long time on one 
occasion. I think this is poor customer service.  And I know  Mr I says he couldnt  work after 
the incident, partly because he had a front light that needed to be fixed  and partly  because 
he didnt want to over-write Markerstudys  dash  cam footage by driving too much (he says 
footage is overwritten every 30 hours).
But I have to bear in mind  that any incident  like the one Mr I had is likely to cause a car 
owner distress and inconvenience. And I have to balance  this against what  I think  
Markerstudy did wrong that added to Mr Is distress and inconvenience.  
I wouldve  expected  Markerstudy to collect  Mr Is dash cam footage within  a reasonable time 
 and this clearly didnt  happen. But the incident was in the early hours of 23 December and, 
given it was a holiday period, I wouldnt  necessarily  have  expected  it to be collected before 
Christmas. And, if Mr I had decided to claim on his car insurance,  I also wouldnt have 
expected his car to be repaired until after Christmas  and possibly the early New Year. I 
should also say that, although  Mr I says he couldnt  work, I havent seen anything to show  
his lost earning opportunities as a direct consequence of the claim.  
So, all in all, I dont  think it would  be fair and reasonable to make any award to Mr I for loss 
of earnings or to uphold his complaint for any other  reason.  I think  the offer Markerstudy has 
made Mr I of £200 for the mistakes it made  and the distress and inconvenience these 
caused him is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5240273