K821x#15complaint
E, a charity,  complains that they were unable  to access their online current account with 
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  (trading as Cashplus)  and this has resulted in 
inconvenience and financial  loss. 
E is represented in their complaint by Mr W, who is one of their directors.
background
In March 2019, E reported fraudulent transactions on their account  to Cashplus. Cashplus 
arranged for the fraudulent transactions to be refunded and Es bank card to be replaced.
Following this E was unable to access their online account. Mr W contacted Cashplus 
several times by phone and email regarding this. 
It took Cashplus a few weeks to identify what the issue was. While  it was looking into it, 
Cashplus transferred  money from Es account  to another account they held with it and 
cancelled direct debits  at Es request.  
Cashplus told E they werent able to access the online account because of a computer error 
caused by its advisor replacing the primary card twice on the same  day. It said it would take 
some time to correct  this error  and a quicker solution would be to cancel and replace the 
current primary card. It suggested creating an additional card to enable E to continue making 
card transactions when  ordering  the replacement card as the replacement  would take three 
to five working days.
Cashplus asked E to request a replacement card by replying to its final response letter or via 
its customer service  team.  It said to first order an additional card free of charge, to maintain 
access to card transactions  while the primary card was replaced.
Cashplus also offered  E £150 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.  
E didnt  agree that Cashpluss offer was sufficient  to settle their complaint. They said they 
still didnt have access to the account.  E said Cashplus had cost them  thousands of pounds. 
They had spent  many  hours transferring data to a new bank  account  and setting  up direct 
debits. They had received late payment fines,  their credit rating had fallen and suppliers 
wanted to close  business with them. They said they wanted a minimum of £1,500 to 
compensate them for their loss.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She concluded that Cashpluss error  had 
resulted in E not having  access to their online account for approximately  a month. She 
thought if E had followed Cashpluss suggestion  to put things right by requesting a new card,  
E would have had access  to the account  within  a week of Cashpluss  response to their 
complaint. 
The investigator said she could understand why E had decided  to cancel their direct debits 
after they were unable to see what payments had been made  from their account. But she 
couldnt consider  financial  loss without  evidence to substantiate it. She acknowledged that E 
said they had been unable to pay their staffs wages, but assumed these had been paid 
since Cashplus had transferred money to their other account on two occasions. So she 
didnt recommend Cashplus make a payment  for financial loss for wages  not being paid. 
Ref: DRN54493892Our investigator recommended Cashplus pay a total of £250 to compensate  E for the delays 
and inconvenience  caused.
E accepted  our investigators recommendation of compensation,  but has continued to report  
issues with accessing  the account. 
Cashplus disagreed  with our investigators  view. It said it thought its offer of £150 was fair 
and adequate compensation. It said it hadnt been necessary for E to cancel the direct  debits 
as they were not affected and continued to be paid from the account. It appreciated that E 
wouldnt have been able to access information online,  but said they could  have asked for it 
over the phone.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2019, where  I explained why I intended  to 
uphold Es complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt disputed that E was unable to access their online account, and this was prolonged 
because of an administrative  error by Cashplus. So, what Ive needed  to consider here is 
whether Cashpluss offer of £150  compensation to E is adequate. Ive also thought  about  
Cashpluss actions after it sent its response  to Es complaint because E has told us the 
issues with the account continued.
E was unable to access their online account  for just over three weeks before Cashplus told 
them what  the issue was and what they needed  to do to regain access. Cashplus says that if 
E had done  as it had suggested  and requested  a replacement  card,  the problem would have 
been resolved  within  three to five business  days.
Mr W has told us he followed every stage that Cashplus suggested to resolve the issue with 
accessing the account, but nothing has worked.  He also said he requested  that the account 
be closed several  times.
Cashpluss contact history  shows Mr W phoned it on 20 August 2019 to close the account. 
But Mr W has sent us information  that suggests  he also phoned  Cashplus  on 5 July and 14 
August 2019.  Cashplus  says it hasnt found any record of these two calls. It says that if Mr W 
had called Cashplus to speak about  Es account, he would have had to clear  account 
security. This would have then been  noted in the account as confirmation of the call at that 
time and date. Weve  asked Cashplus  for a recording of the call that has been  noted on 20 
August 2019 but it hasnt provided it. 
Mr W has also sent us a screenshot to show emails he sent to Cashplus. Most of these were 
before 17 April 2019. But it looks like one or two were sent after this date. Weve  asked 
Cashplus for copies  of correspondence between  it and E / Mr W after 17 April 2019. But it 
hasnt sent us anything.
Cashplus told us Es account  would be closed  within 30 days of Mr W requesting  this on    
20 August 2019.  But Mr W told us (in December 2019) he still hasnt received confirmation 
that it has been closed and he thinks it might  still be active. Weve asked Cashplus for its 
comments on this and to let us know whether the account has been  closed. Cashplus is yet 
to respond.
Ref: DRN54493893Although Mr W has told us E suffered financial loss due to Cashpluss actions, I havent seen 
any evidence to support  this. I think the £150 Cashplus offered E on 17 April 2019 was fair 
compensation for the delays and inconvenience caused by the initial problems with the 
accessing the account. But it doesnt appear  that Cashplus had resolved the issue  at that 
time.
Mr W says he did everything Cashplus said he needed to. From the information I currently, 
have its difficult to determine exactly whats happened since  17 April 2019. From what  Ive 
seen, I think E or Mr W is likely to have called Cashplus  on 5 July and 14 August. But I dont  
know what might have  been discussed, or even if it was in relation to this account.  Id hoped 
the phone  conversation of 20 August 2019 might give me some more  insight into whats 
happened. But Cashplus  hasnt provided us with a recording. It also hasnt provided us with 
copies of correspondence wed requested.
Cashplus hasnt confirmed whether the account has now been closed. If it has been closed, 
it hasnt provided anything to show that it notified  E of this.  
On balance, I dont  think Cashplus is likely  to have resolved the situation  as quickly as it 
should have done. I also dont think its communicated clearly enough. This means E was 
subject to further delay and inconvenience. For that reason, I think  total compensation of 
£250 would  be a more appropriate resolution  to Es complaint.
Cashplus should also close  Es account if it hasnt  already done so.
responses
Mr W said he didnt  think £250 was an acceptable  amount to compensate E for what  had 
happened. He said it cost E far more in business issues as a result  of having no bank 
service for 10 months. Over £40,000  was transacted through the account and Es business 
was pretty  much at a financial standstill for months due to Cashplus. Hed already provided 
data on wasted telephone calls and communications made on a daily basis  for months.  He 
had no access to statements or the account  balance and could not access  money to make 
payments for E for months.  
Cashplus hasnt provided any information or comments  following my provisional decision. 
Ive also asked for its comments regarding two £15 fees for rejected direct debits showing on 
Es account in June  and July 2019. But Cashplus also hasnt responded to this.
I told Cashplus that if I didnt hear back from it by 10 February 2020, I intended to direct  it to 
remove any charges or fees incurred on the account  since March 2019  and to close  the 
account if it hasnt  already  done  so. We also gave  E the opportunity to comment  on what Id 
said about the fees and charges.  
Neither party as provided  any further comments or information regarding  the fees and 
charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54493894I appreciate Mr W is disappointed with the amount  of compensation I feel is appropriate. But, 
unfortunately I cant consider financial loss without evidence to substantiate  it. And I havent 
seen evidence to support  what  Mr W has said about Es financial loss.
I also cant consider the impact this has had on Mr W personally because he isnt the 
complainant  its E. So, while  I can understand Mr Ws frustrations, these cant be taken into 
account in the compensation  award because E, as a limited  company, isnt able to 
experience frustration or distress. 
While I cant consider distress,  I have  been  able to think about the inconvenience  E has 
experienced. Im aware that Mr W spent many  hours  on phone calls to Cashplus to try to 
resolve the issues with accessing the account.  Mr W has sent us a list of some  of the phone 
calls he says he made to Cashplus and Ive also seen the contact history from Cashplus.  
From what  Ive seen, most  of the phone calls took place before Cashplus issued its final 
response to his complaint on 17 April 2019.  As I explained in my provisional decision, I think 
I think the £150 Cashplus offered to settle  Es complaint was fair compensation for the 
delays and inconvenience E experienced up until that point. 
Its been difficult to determine  exactly what happened after 17 April 2019. Cashplus hasnt 
provided the information weve requested, despite  being chased for it several times. So, Ive 
needed to reach a conclusion based on the limited information I have. Theres only one 
phone call noted on Cashpluss contact history  since 17 April 2019. This was the call of 20 
August 2019 where its noted  Es request to close the account. The list Mr W has emailed 
suggests two other calls took place on 15 July and 14 August 2019. Id considered  these 
three calls in my provisional  decision and Id concluded that on balance, Cashplus hadnt 
resolved the situation as quickly as it should  have done.
Ive also considered the fees for rejected direct debits showing on the account. Cashplus 
hasnt answered  my questions regarding these,  so I dont know if theyve been  removed  
from the account or are still on there. I dont think it would be fair for E to pay these fees or 
charges when they havent had access to the account since March  2019. So Cashplus 
should remove any fees or charges  that have been applied  to the account since  March  2019. 
Cashplus should also close  the account  if it hasnt  already done  so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Es complaint and direct Advanced  Payment 
Solutions Limited to:
close the account E has complained  about, if it hasnt already done so.
Remove any fees or charges  applied to the account since  March 2019.
Pay E £250 for inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5449389