K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about the repairs carried out by St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) 
following a claim she made for storm damage under her buildings  insurance policy.
background
In July 2016 Ms M noticed  her conservatory  roof was damaged after a storm. St Andrews 
agreed to cover the claim  and repairs were carried out.
A few months later Ms M said water was still coming in through  the conservatory roof.         
St Andrews  contractors attended  several  times without  the issue  being resolved. Ms M 
asked for another contractor to carry out the work  which St Andrews agreed to.
The new contractor carried out a survey report;  this said the work carried out by the first 
contractor wasnt satisfactory. But it also said the pitch of the roof was defective. St Andrews  
offered a cash settlement of £1,850 for the ineffective repairs, but didnt agree to cover the 
full cost of replacing  the conservatory  roof as it said the pitch  of the roof hadnt been altered 
as a result  of the storm.
Ms M complained. She thought the damage  had been caused by the first contractor and it 
had changed the pitch of the roof during the repairs. She said St Andrews should cover  the 
cost of replacing the roof. St Andrews refused and unhappy with its response  Ms M brought  
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought it was more likely the contractor  had altered  the pitch  of the roof 
during its poor repair work. So she thought St Andrews should  cover the cost of replacing  
the conservatory roof She also said St Andrews should pay a further  £250  compensation  for 
distress and inconvenience caused to Ms M.
St Andrews  didnt think it needed  to cover the full cost of replacing the roof. It also said it 
had previously paid £350 for the inconvenience it had caused Ms M, so it didnt think  a 
further £250 should be paid.
 As St Andrews didnt  agree,  the matter has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews  accepted the claim for storm damage and sought to repair the roof. So the only 
thing for me to consider  is whether  the repairs carried  out by St Andrews were so poor, it 
should now replace the conservatory roof.
St Andrews  has accepted  its contractors carried out poor work on the several occasions it 
attended Ms Ms property.  It accepts the roof panels  were cut poorly and they werent  sealed  
as they should have  been. But it denies  it altered the pitch  of the roof. Having looked at 
everything, I think its more likely the contractors did alter the pitch  of the roof whilst carrying  
out repairs and this has compromised the effectiveness of the roof. As a result  it should pay 
for the roof to be replaced. Ive explained  why below.
Ref: DRN54841452Ive looked at the reports from the first contractor  who attended Ms Ms property.                  
St Andrews  has said it was a roofing specialist who attended.  The report  says the panels 
and rafters will have to be replaced. There is no mention of any inherent defects with the 
pitch of the roof that might affect its performance. And there is no evidence  from before the 
repairs were carried out which  suggests there was an issue  with the construction of the roof. 
The contractors attended the property on several occasions, and Ive seen  a photograph of 
the contractors working on the roof. The conservatory panels have been stripped back and 
the lowest few rows of roof tiles on the main  building have been removed, to aid the 
conservatory roof repairs. Ms M has also provided photographs  of the brickwork from under 
the conservatory roof. These show  plug holes and marks on the brickwork which  suggest  the 
roof used to be fixed to a different part of the brickwork.  St Andrews  has said this could be 
as a result  of different material being  fitted and shouldnt be taken as an indication of a 
change of pitch. But there is a considerable distance  between  the plug holes and the new 
roof. So I think the removing of the main  roof tiles and these markings  on the wall suggest  it 
is more likely that the contractors did alter the pitch of the roof when working  on it.
St Andrews  second  contractor identified the problems with the pitch of the roof when  it was 
instructed following several failed  repairs.  This report notes:
there is nowhere near enough fall in the roof.
Given how obvious it was to the second contractors, I think  its likely  the first contractors 
would also have picked  up on the issue with the pitch of the roof, had it been there when  
initial repairs  were carried out.
This report also notes that the fascia of the main building has been  cut and almost all of the 
rafter ends have  been cut back  also. It says the roof should have been installed to fit under 
the fascia, rather than it being cut away.
St Andrews  has said one of its qualified surveyors has reviewed the file. It is his opinion  the 
fascia and rafters must have been cut when the conservatory was first built,  otherwise it 
wouldnt have been possible  to fit the conservatory  roof. But it cant show any evidence  of 
this, given no photographs were taken by the contractors of the pre-repair state of the roof. 
And even  if the fascia had been cut during the original construction  of the conservatory, I 
dont think it follows that the contractors didnt  alter the pitch of the roof when installing new 
rafters and panels.
Ms M says the conservatory has been standing  for 15 years,  and shed never encountered a 
problem with it until the storm damaged it. Shes  provided photos which show mould growing 
on the outside of the roof as the water  isnt draining away  as effectively as it used to. Taking  
everything into account, Im satisfied  that such a poor roof construction would have been 
obvious to the initial  contractor. Whilst it has denied  cutting  the fascia, its also been shown 
its repair works were so poor that its unreasonable to place much weight on its testimony. 
Understandably, Ms M has said she doesnt  want St Andrews to carry out the repairs to the 
roof. So it should  pay for Ms Ms conservatory roof to be replaced.  I appreciate  St Andrews 
would receive a discount if it carried  out the replacement  itself, but given Ms M will have to 
pay market rate, St Andrews should pay the market rate for the roof replacement.  It should 
do this once Ms M has provided a quote for a like for like replacement of the conservatory  
roof.
Ref: DRN54841453I accept St Andrews has already paid Ms M for the distress and inconvenience  this has 
caused her. But shes  now been  left with a defective conservatory roof for the last three 
years. Water coming into the property has caused  mould to the blinds in the conservatory 
and the poor repairs mean Ms M has had to cope with several leaks. So St Andrews needs 
to pay a further £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Ms M at the market rate for 
a new conservatory  roof to be installed in Ms Ms property.  It should  do this once Ms M has 
provided a quote  for a like for like replacement conservatory roof.
It also needs to pay Ms M a further  £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Ms M accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires St Andrews Plc to take off tax from this interest. St 
Andrews Plc must give Ms M a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN5484145