K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank  plc mis-sold  him a student account with an overdraft limit of 
£1,500.
background
In 2017 Mr P was in his final year of study  as a student. He already had a student account,  
with an overdraft facility,  with another bank. He also has some  payday loans. In October of 
that year, he says he went to a branch of TSB and asked for a small loan, to cover his rent 
arrears. He says that instead the branch staff gave him a student account with an overdraft 
limit of £1,500, free of interest and charges. In 2019 he complained  to TSB about this, and 
being dissatisfied with their answer he brought his complaint  to our Service.
Mr P makes  a number of complaints about the sale of the account.  He says he could not 
afford the overdraft. He says this should  have been obvious to TSB,  if it had done  proper 
affordability checks. He says he didnt know and wasnt told that the account terms and 
conditions said that he wasnt  eligible  for a student  account if he already had one. He says 
he hadnt wanted another student  account and would rather have had the loan, and a 
student credit card.  He complains that according  to TSBs published material, he should 
initially have  been  given an overdraft limit of £500,  rising incrementally to £1,500 over ten 
months. He later said that he hadnt  been  eligible  for the account at all, because he had less 
than a year left on his course. He said TSB had trapped him in a cycle of debt.
TSB said that it hadnt known that Mr P already had a student  account (this is in dispute, 
because Mr P says he told the branch staff about it). TSB had checked Mr Ps credit score, 
but not his full credit file, so it wouldnt have  seen his other account. But Mr P had known 
that he had a student account, and he had signed  TSBs terms and conditions which said he 
could only have one, so he shouldnt have opened another  one. A loan and a credit card 
would have incurred  interest, whereas the student  overdraft was free, so he was better  off 
with that. The overdraft would continue to be free after he graduated, when his student 
account would become  a graduate account.  He had been eligible for the maximum limit of 
£1,500 because the incremental increases were only for first years.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint, but did not agree that TSB should have to write off the 
debt, because Mr P had spent TSBs money,  so he should still have to pay it back.
Mr P did not accept that decision, and he asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
TSB was dissatisfied with the adjudicators decision, but reluctantly accepted  it because  the 
proposed redress  was no more than it would  normally  do anyway if a customer was in 
arrears  but it pointed  out that it had not yet called  in the overdraft.
This complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision. I wrote a provisional 
decision, which went as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am not minded to uphold  it. I will explain 
why.
Ref: DRN52312572Firstly, Mr P is better  off with a student  account  overdraft  than he would have been with 
either a loan or a credit card, because it comes  with no interest and no fees. That continued 
to be the case  after he graduated, because a student account automatically  becomes a 
graduate account,  which  also has an interest-free and fees-free overdraft for three years 
after graduation. (Mr P should note that after two years the overdraft limit will reduce  to 
£1,010, and interest and fees may be charged a year after that.)
The loan he asked  for, and the student credit  card,  would both have  incurred interest. 
Instead, Mr P has been charged nothing. He has had the benefit of borrowing £1,500  from 
TSB for free. So I cant see that he has been  disadvantaged in any way by what  has 
happened.
Mr P has tried to argue that if he had had a loan, then he would have had to make monthly 
repayments on it, and he would have paid it all back by now.  He says he could have  afforded 
the repayments. But that means he could also have afforded  to make similar repayments on 
his overdraft. It was his choice not to. That means hes not only had the benefit of borrowing 
the money, but hes also had the benefit of not having to pay any of it back yet.
Within a week of opening  the account,  Mr P made  full use of the overdraft limit, and the 
account balance  has remained at the limit to this day. The overdraft is repayable on demand,  
but TSB has not yet called it in, so Mr P is not in arrears. I am therefore unable to accept  his 
assertion that TSB has put him in a cycle of debt. He hasnt had to repay anything to TSB 
yet, except for one payment of £20 he made  in April 2018, which  he withdrew  again  a few 
days later.
TSB hasnt  said its going to call in the overdraft once this complaint is closed. TSB says its 
content for Mr P to start repaying his overdraft  in the normal manner. If he fails to do that, of 
course, then TSB probably will demand full repayment, but its allowed to. For the last 20 
months Mr P has had an interest-free loan on which he has made almost no repayments. Its 
time for him to start repaying  it. I recommend he begins now.
It follows that TSB hasnt  caused Mr P any loss or hardship. That means that even if TSB did 
do something wrong, it has not had any adverse consequences for him. However, I will still 
deal with the other issues, briefly.
Mr P wasnt  eligible for this account. I dont know if anyone told him that verbally when he 
applied for it, but it said so in the terms and conditions,  which  he signed on the day he 
opened the account. Perhaps he didnt read those on the day, or in the days afterwards, but 
that was his choice. He told us in February  2019 that he told the branch  staff member that he 
already had a student account, which should  have alerted her to the fact that he was 
disqualified from opening this one. But he didnt tell TSB that when he first brought his 
complaint to them. Instead, he told them this:
I was not made aware or asked if l had other student accounts with other banks 
which a simple credit  search would  have  clearly highlighted.
I dont think hed have  said that if he really had volunteered this information  to the bank when 
he opened the account. I think its more  likely  that, after a year, his recollection of what  was 
discussed is no longer quite  accurate. But even if I took a different view about that, it doesnt 
alter the fact that he has not been prejudiced  by it, nor would it mean that he shouldnt  have 
to repay  what he borrowed.
Ref: DRN52312573When opening a student account, TSB doesnt  obtain a full credit file, it just obtains a credit  
score. Given  that this was an interest-free and fees-free overdraft, and the cost of credit was 
nil, I think that was an adequate affordability check.  So I would not expect TSB to have been 
aware of Mr Ps other  bank accounts.
Mr P did provide TSB with a bank  statement  (to verify his address), but this account was not 
his other  student  account, and it did not have an overdraft facility. It did show  that he had 
taken payday  loans before, but these  were for much smaller amounts than the overdraft limit 
TSB was giving him. I dont agree that this was a reason not to give him an overdraft, 
because I think he would  have been  better off with an interest-free overdraft. It is cheaper  
and more affordable  than a payday  loan, and should  have eliminated  the need  to take out 
further payday loans.
The fact that Mr P was in his final year of study  did not make him ineligible  for the account. 
The terms and conditions  simply say, in very plain English, that he had to be studying for a 
course that lasts for a minimum  of two years. That is the kind of course  he was on. It says 
nothing about  how much of the course  is still left to run at the time the account  is opened.
Evidence provided to us by Mr P confirms  that the incremental overdraft limit increases are 
only for students on the first year of their course.  It contains the following table, which  Mr P 
found on TSBs website:
Time spent on your  course Maximum interest and fee-free 
Arranged Overdraft limit
Months 1  6 Up to £500
Months 7  9 Up to £1,000
Month 10 onwards Up to £1,500
I am unable  to accept  that Time spent on your course means  what  Mr P thinks it means  
the amount of time for which he has had the account. It means just what it says, and it says 
it plainly. So he was eligible for the maximum limit immediately (or at least  he would have 
been if he hadnt already  had another student  account).
I therefore think that TSB did nothing wrong  when  it gave Mr P the maximum limit.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P did not accept my decision, but he did not make any further representations.
TSB did not respond.
Therefore there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm  
them here.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN52312574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. But if we do not hear from him then we will 
presume that he does not accept it, and he will not be bound by it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5231257