K821x#15complaint
Mr L is unhappy that he was asked to pay an additional premium  mid-term by Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC under his home  insurance policy. When he didnt pay, the policy was 
cancelled which he says has caused  him problems  with getting insurance  since.  
background
Mr L made a claim under his policy in September 2017. Before the claim was settled the 
policy renewed automatically. Mr L was happy  with the premium asked for and was content  
for the policy to auto-renew. Tesco  eventually  settled the claim in July 2018 and then told 
him that he needed  to pay an additional  premium of £58.96 to avoid the cancellation of his 
policy.
Ive not been provided with details of what  Mr L did as a result of warning letters  being sent 
by Tesco  but in the absence of payment his policy was cancelled on 1 August 2018.
Mr L complained to Tesco but they responded that they were  entitled to demand  the 
additional payment under  the terms of the policy. Unhappy with their response  Mr L 
complained to this service.
Our investigator agreed with Mr L that Tesco  had acted unfairly by cancelling  his policy  and 
that as a result they should pay him compensation of £50 and also remove any records of 
the cancellation which might prejudice  future  applications for insurance.  Tesco  dont accept 
that position and so the case has been  passed  to me to make  a final decision. Tesco  
continue to argue that the terms  of the renewal and the policy  documents allow  them to raise  
a demand for an additional premium in the event of changes to the policy holders 
circumstances.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld.
Tesco has pointed to its policy wording  which  it believes gives  it the right to demand an 
additional payment during the term of the contract  in situations like this. The section which 
Tesco relies on is on page 10 of the policy under Policy Conditions and is then headed  
Changes you must tell us about. 
It seems  to me that this section is primarily, if not wholly, aimed to be read at the time that 
the policy documents are sent  either  confirming a new or auto renewed policy. It requires 
the recipient to notify the insurer of changes to the information contained within your 
statement of fact and Schedule and gives some examples. That includes any loss or 
incident that may cause a claim . And goes on to explain  that As a result of the change  
your premium may increase ....  The section concludes with a warning  about  the making of 
false statements and withholding of information and reminds the policy holder that it is their 
responsibility that information  given by you  is true and complete. 
The section doesnt clearly state that the requirement to notify is to apply throughout the life 
of the policy. But even allowing for this section to be applicable throughout the life of the 
Ref: DRN59019982policy it clearly  puts the responsibility, and the ramifications which flow from it, on the policy 
holder to disclose  information.
In the case of Mr Ls complaint he had previously notified Tesco  of a claim. When  it offered 
him a renewal of his policy  it was aware of that claim. Its later attempt to increase the 
premium was not in any way to do with an allegation  that Mr L had failed to notify it of 
something contained within this section of the policy. In fact, in its communication  with him 
and us Tesco readily accepts that Mr L was not at fault in any way in terms of failing to 
supply information.
Its clear to me that this policy condition is entirely  aimed at the disclosure of information by 
the policy holder.  It has no relevance  to the situation in which Mr L found himself and as a 
result it doesnt entitle Tesco to demand  an additional payment.
In Mr Ls case Tesco  had full knowledge  of a claim but, at the point of renewal, hadnt  
agreed the value  of that claim. They argue  that as a result  they werent able to fully assess 
the extent to which the claim might eventually affect  their view of risk. But Tesco  itself is 
responsible for the offer it makes to a prospective  policy holder. And having made an offer of 
insurance protection at an agreed price  which was then accepted, it has formed  a contract to 
provide that cover for the twelve month  period at the price  agreed.   
I recognise that there may be terms within any contract which allow  variation by one party or 
the other.  The policy condition referred  to seeks to achieve that. But this section only covers  
Tescos rights to make changes  in the event of the policy  holder notifying  it, or failing to 
notify it, of a change. So it doesnt allow a change  to the contract terms in the way that 
Tesco suggests. 
Id further add that this service takes the view that, even in the case of clauses like this 
requiring notification of change, it would not be fair for the insurer  to demand an additional 
payment mid-term. Our view is that in such cases it is fair for the insurer  to offer that as an 
option, along with others  which are available to it under the law. But we also believe that the 
consumer has the right to decline to pay the extra amount sought and himself  cancel  the 
policy without penalty.
I mention this as Tesco, in my view, has sought  to apply a condition  intended to reflect  its 
rights in the event  of a non-disclosure by the policy holder. And in such cases  the relevant 
legislation doesnt  allow the demand of an additional premium as the redress for non-
disclosure. In my view,  Tesco  has incorrectly both applied  an outcome that we wouldnt think  
fair, and has done  so in a situation that doesnt allow  it to seek redress  at all.  
Its not for me to tell Tesco how it should seek to deal with this conundrum - where it has all 
the information it needs at inception of a policy but later becomes aware of something that it 
believes affects the risk rating but which, importantly, isnt due to any failing on the part of 
the consumer.  But Im satisfied that there  is nothing  within its agreement  with Mr L which 
allows it to demand a further payment  as it attempted to here.
So, I agree  that Mr L has been treated unfairly when additional money  was demanded and 
then in the cancellation of his policy.
I understand that Mr L has gone  without insurance  since that time and Im not aware of him 
suffering any loss as a result, such  as having  had a potential claim which he couldnt make. I 
understand that he was happy with the determination by our investigator  and was less 
Ref: DRN59019983concerned about  any compensation  as he was about the impact on him of any record  of this 
cancellation and also the risk that Tesco might act similarly  on other cases.
My consideration is about his complaint alone but I would point out that businesses have a 
regulatory responsibility to take note of decisions made by this service.
Tesco has told us that it has made  no formal record of the cancellation which could have any 
impact on him seeking insurance elsewhere. But it recognises that the same disclosure 
requirements it wrongly sought to apply here, do apply  to Mr L in any future  application for 
insurance cover. And its a reality  that many  insurers  will ask if a policy has previously been 
cancelled and that disclosure might  adversely  affect an insurance offer.
In this case my decision is that Tesco shouldnt have cancelled Mr Ls policy. In such a 
situation my objective  is to seek,  as far as is possible, to put Mr L back  into the position  
which he would have  been in if hed been  treated fairly. So, in agreeing  with the investigator 
that Tesco should remove any record of the cancellation I clarify that in doing  so it needs to 
put Mr L in the position that he no longer therefore needs to disclose that his policy  has been 
cancelled. That was the intention of the investigators requirement and I agree with it. I leave 
it to Tesco  to confirm  to Mr L how it has achieved that position.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Tesco Personal Finance PLC and require it to;
-Pay Mr L £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by wrongly cancelling his 
policy
-Adjust its own and any other  records of the outcome to remove  any reference  to a 
cancellation of the policy, in a way which allows it to confirm to Mr L that there is no 
longer any cancellation  which he should  feel it necessary to disclose to other insurers  
as the cancellation was done  in error. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5901998