K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-advised  by Bank  of Scotland plc when he asked them  to 
switch his mortgage after his fixed rate period came to an end. 
background
Mr B had an interest-only mortgage  with Bank  of Scotland. This had a fixed interest  rate 
period which  came  to an end in early 2018.
In January 2018, just before the fixed rate period ended, Mr B rang Bank of Scotland  to ask 
if he could switch to another  mortgage product with a better  interest rate than the banks 
standard variable  rate (SVR). His existing mortgage was due to default to the SVR at the 
end of the fixed rate period.
Mr B says he was mis-advised during that call. And he says this meant he left the existing 
mortgage in place  and paid the interest at the SVR  until around  April 2019, because  he 
thought he had no other option. 
In April 2019, having gone through a broker, Mr B was offered a further interest only 
mortgage with a fixed rate of interest by Bank of Scotland  something  which  he says he 
was led to believe he couldnt have when he spoke to them  in early 2018.
Mr B believes he should  have been offered that option in early  2018. He says he paid higher 
interest than he needed  to for more than a year. And he says he wouldnt have had to pay 
the brokers fee and fixed rate fee he paid in April 2019 if hed been properly advised  and 
so switched his mortgage - in January 2018.
Mr B complained to Bank of Scotland. They didnt  uphold the complaint, but they said they 
couldnt retrieve the recording of a part of the call Mr B made in January 2018 (he spoke to 
three different Bank of Scotland  employees  during the course of the call). 
Because they couldnt be sure what Mr B was told in that part of the call, they gave Mr B the 
benefit of any doubt and offered him £300 compensation on the basis  that the advice theyd 
offered might not have been  completely clear  to Mr B.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. Whilst we were  investigating, 
Bank of Scotland had managed to find the previously missing  part of the call recording, 
which shed new light on the complaint.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of it, Mr B could have had the further interest only fixed rate mortgage  in early 
2018. His circumstances didnt change in any way that would affect his eligibility for that 
product between early  2018 and April 2019,  when it was eventually offered by Bank of 
Scotland.
Ref: DRN55559842So Mr B was paying a higher rate of interest than was necessary until April 2019. And he did 
incur fees when he applied for that product via the broker.  
The question for me is why Mr B didnt switch to that product  or the equivalent at the time  
after speaking to Bank of Scotland in January  2018.  If they did at that point lead him to 
believe he had no option but to allow his existing mortgage to default to the SVR, as he 
says, then Id ask Bank of Scotland to compensate him. 
And Id say they should pay him the difference between the payments  he actually made and 
those he could have  made if hed taken  the fixed rate option  in January 2018  and cover 
any fees he had to pay which he wouldnt have paid in January 2018.
However, having listened to the complete recording of the call Mr B made  to Bank  of 
Scotland in January 2018, I dont think he was misled or mis-advised. I know  this will 
disappoint Mr B, but Ill explain  why Ive come to that conclusion.
When he made the call, Mr B was first put through to the team that deals with new 
mortgages. After getting details  from Mr B, the employee told Mr B he could switch  to a new 
product with either a two year or a five year fixed rate term. 
She told Mr B what the fixed interest  rates were in both cases and asked if Mr B wanted to 
be put through to a mortgage  adviser  who could take him through  the application for those 
products. He agreed and she transferred the call. At this point, Mr B had been  told he could 
switch to a new fixed  rate interest only mortgage.
Mr B then speaks to the mortgage adviser,  who started out by confirming Mr B was looking 
to change his mortgage product and then said he could get the application  sorted for Mr B.
In line with Bank of Scotlands processes  and in line with whats  expected  of mortgage 
lenders since the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Mortgage Market Review in 2014  the 
adviser then asked Mr B whether he had a means in place to pay off the sum borrowed at 
the end of the mortgage term.
Mr B said he had stocks and shares  worth at least approximately twice  as much as the value 
of the mortgage.  And the adviser pointed out that as part of the application, Bank of Scotland  
would need verification of that.
At that point, Mr B said he had reservations about disclosing information about  his finances. 
The conversation then went on for a period of time with the adviser explaining that the 
application process required confirmation that Mr B could pay off the mortgage at term and 
Mr B saying he wasnt comfortable about  sharing  that information with Bank  of Scotland.
Eventually, the adviser pointed out that Mr B could either provide proof of his means  of 
repayment or go through the process of providing  full income and expenditure details so 
Bank of Scotland could assess his ability to repay  the sum owed at the end of the mortgage 
term.
Mr B then asked for time to think about his options  and read the on-line information provided 
by Bank  of Scotland about the application  process  and the mortgages they offer. The adviser 
said that was fine and Mr B could  ring back or go to a local branch when he was ready to 
make the application.
Ref: DRN55559843There are two key points about  this conversation. 
Ill deal with the simplest  first. At the end of the conversation, the adviser clearly believes  
reasonably enough given  what Mr B has said  that Mr B is going to proceed with an 
application for an interest only fixed term mortgage  once hes had time to consider the 
relevant information  and his options. 
So at that point its absolutely apparent that the adviser has not given Mr B the impression 
that he wont be eligible  for an interest  only fixed  rate mortgage.  He fully expects him to 
proceed with an application and hasnt  discouraged Mr B from doing  so. Nor has he said  or 
implied  that any such application would be unsuccessful.
The other key point is that right at the start Mr B says he has a means in place to repay  the 
mortgage at the end of its term. This is important  because Mr Bs argument is that Bank of 
Scotland led him to believe that he couldnt have an interest only fixed  rate mortgage if he 
didnt have a means  to repay the lump sum at the end. 
To put it bluntly, Bank of Scotland  didnt  advise Mr B at all on that scenario because they 
didnt think it was relevant   because Mr B told them he had the means  to repay  the loan.
Mr B says he should have  received the advice which is contained in a Bank  of Scotland 
pamphlet about interest only mortgages. This sets out three options for customers with those 
mortgages. These are: move to a repayment mortgage; overpay to reduce the amount owed 
at the end of the mortgage  term; and/or increase your mortgage term.
Mr B believes that because the mortgage adviser  he spoke to didnt give him this advice, he 
failed in his duty to Mr B and didnt make  his options  clear.
However, that pamphlet sets out the three options  as possibilities for customers who:
arent sure youll  have  enough to repay your mortgage
When Mr B spoke  to the adviser in January 2018,  he said he did have the means in place to 
repay the loan when  the mortgage reached  the end of its term. So I dont think  Mr B can 
reasonably expect that he shouldve been  given advice specifically aimed at customers who 
didnt have the means in place to repay at the end of the term.
When Mr B applied  to switch his mortgage in April 2019, he said he didnt have the means in 
place to repay the lump sum at the end of the mortgage term (other  than by selling the 
house). 
So its not surprising  that, as that application progressed, he was given information which 
differed from the course of the conversation in January 2018 when he told the Bank  of 
Scotland something completely different.
If Mr B had told the Bank  of Scotland in January 2018 that he didnt have the means in place 
to repay  the lump  sum at the end of the mortgages  term, then the conversation would very 
likely have taken a different course. And its likely it would have become apparent  to Mr B 
that he could switch to another  interest only fixed rate mortgage even if he didnt have a 
means of final repayment in place.
Ref: DRN55559844The January  2018 conversation didnt follow that course  and didnt result in a successful  
application for a new mortgage product - because Mr B told Bank  of Scotland he had a 
means in place to repay the lump  sum,  but he was unsure he wanted to disclose the details. 
Thats not Bank of Scotlands fault.  And Im satisfied  they didnt mislead or mis-advise  Mr B 
in January 2018 given what he told them. So I cant  conclude that Bank of Scotland acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in any way towards Mr B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5555984