K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Automobile  Association  Insurance Services Limited (AA) mis-sold him 
family breakdown cover.
background
In January 2018, Mr W purchased AA membership from AAs agent in a face to face sale.  
Mr W says the agent recommended the policy to him, which covered three  other people in 
addition to himself. He says he was not told that it was requirement that all parties covered 
had to live at the same address. Of the three  additional members added, two lived at a 
different address and one lived with Mr W half of the time.
AA say their agent did not give advice and the sales process was completed by Mr W 
inputting his requirements into a questionnaire on a tablet. Theyve  provided  screenshots  of 
the information entered at the time. Mr W says the agent entered  the details  on his behalf  
and only handed  him the tablet so that he could sign the agreement.  Mr W recalled 
discussing the living arrangements of one of the family  members.
AA have confirmed  that had Mr W or any of his family members claimed on the policy  during  
its term, they would  have attended  a breakdown, so Mr W didnt lose out as he had the 
benefit of cover during the term for which he paid. Mr W says that when he called to renew 
the policy, another AA agent  advised  him that his family would not have been covered. He 
believes he then purchased a separate policy for a family member.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She acknowledged there was conflicting 
information about whether the terms and conditions were given to Mr W at the time and 
thought it was for Mr W to have  read the terms and conditions of the policy once they were 
received. But overall, our investigator thought Mr W hadnt lost out because  AA said they 
would have covered all the family members in any event if a claim had been  brought  during 
the 12 month period. She preferred the evidence provided by AA that the policy ran for 12 
months and changes only took place after the policy had expired.
Mr W doesnt agree with the view, so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have a record of what was said by the parties at the time,  so Ive made my decision 
based upon what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
mis-sale
There isnt enough  to show that the AA agent  made  a recommendation to Mr W at the time 
and Ive seen  the screenshot entry against which it is agreed that no advice was given. But it 
was for AA to provide  Mr W with clear, fair and not misleading information  about the policy  
so that he was able to make an informed decision as to whether the policy  was suitable  for 
his needs. 
Ref: DRN50590992Its agreed the policy was purchased by inputting  information  into a tablet and Ive seen  the 
data that was input at the time. Ive also taken into account Mr Ws recollection that the 
agent input the information on his behalf  and only passed the tablet to him for the agreement 
to be signed. Im satisfied  thats a plausible account  and Mr W has given a consistent 
explanation about this. But Mr W would still have had to provide information for the agent to 
input.
Theres a factual dispute as to whether Mr W was given a copy of the terms and conditions  
at the time. But Ive seen that the tablet was ticked to show that the terms were handed over.
The definition of family cover in the terms and conditions is, Gives up to three other 
nominated people living at the Members Home Address access  to the AA membership 
breakdown cover. The nominated person may also be a student or a member of the armed  
forces who normally lives at the Home  Address but is temporarily living  away.  But this is set 
out at page 9 of the policy booklet  and whilst AA have referred to the family membership 
option on the tablet, Im not satisfied that Mr W saw it as the data was input  by the agent. 
Its difficult to fairly say now what information  was highlighted to Mr W at the time, but I 
accept Mr W mistakenly formed  the view that the members he added fell within the policy  
terms.
cover
For me to uphold the complaint Id then have to be satisfied that Mr W lost out. AA have 
confirmed they would  have responded under the policy if any of the family  members had 
made a claim for breakdown recovery. In other  words, they would have honoured the policy  
for all four members. And Ive seen  from AAs records that the policy  remained in force for 
the full 12 months  with the family members only being removed from the renewal date. Had 
Mr W bought individual policies for all the selected  members, it would have cost more.
It may be that there  was some confusion  when Mr W called to renew  the policy and I 
appreciate his disappointment at discovering  that separate policies would be required in the 
future. But Im satisfied  that he did have the benefit of the policy  hed purchased, so I cant 
say its fair and reasonable to ask AA to refund the premiums.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5059099