K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that despite  having  a private  medical insurance  policy  with AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited, he had to receive  treatment under  the NHS rather than privately.  
background
After being diagnosed with cancer, Mr T was admitted to a nearby  private  hospital  for 
treatment. Unfortunately, that hospital  didnt have  the facilities to be able to continue his 
treatment. He was therefore transferred to an NHS hospital. 
Mr T has complained about this. He also complained that AXAs cancer care team didnt  
contact him to give him support.  He wanted AXA to refund the premiums hed paid under the 
policy from the date he was transferred to the NHS.  
AXA said it had offered Mr T a network  override (the ability  to use a private  hospital  not part 
of AXAs  contracted  network), but he chose to continue his treatment under the NHS. It 
apologised for its cancer care team not getting  in touch with Mr T. As a way of resolving the 
complaint, it offered to cancel the policy and refund the premiums  Mr T had paid since May 
2017. Unhappy  with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2019. My findings were:
Mr T was receiving private treatment at a local AXA network hospital. Unfortunately, that 
hospital couldnt continue to provide the necessary treatment, and so Mr T was transferred 
to his local NHS hospital. 
Mr T called AXA about  this on 8 August 2016.  Ive listened to this call and Mr T explained  
hed already had some  treatment under the NHS as it couldnt  be administered  in his local 
private hospital. He further explained hed been referred to a multi-disciplinary team at the 
NHS and that he needed another procedure in two days time (which  also couldnt  be done 
at his local private hospital). He said he could see himself unfortunately now going onto the 
NHS, as the local private hospital didnt  have the facilities to treat him. 
I think AXA should have  advised Mr T during this call of the possibility of a network override. 
This is where AXA will cover treatment that takes place at a non-network hospital - for 
example, if AXAs network hospital  doesnt have appropriate facilities to provide  necessary 
treatment. Unfortunately, AXA didnt make  Mr T aware of this option during the call, and 
instead focused on the NHS cash benefit.  
I understand that the NHS  hospital where  Mr T had his treatment has a private ward, so he 
could have been treated as a private  patient there if AXA had advised him of the network 
override option.  I think if hed known about  this, he would have chosen  to be treated  as a 
private patient at that time. 
Mr T hasnt  experienced a financial loss, however he did suffer a loss of comfort as a result 
of being treated as an NHS  patient rather than a private  patient.  In such circumstances, we 
usually say that AXA should pay Mr T compensation  equivalent to the cost to it of providing a 
bed at the hospital at which he would have been  treated. As Ive said above, that would be 
the NHS  hospital  where Mr T had the treatment, but on the private ward. Any NHS  cash  
benefit already  paid would need  to be deducted from the payment. 
Ref: DRN52510452I see that Mr T had an overnight  stay for a procedure  on 10 August 2016. He also had 
further treatment between 16 September and 28 October 2016, though I dont know if he 
stayed overnight for any of that treatment. However,  AXA will be aware of this, as it has paid 
NHS cash benefit for the overnight stays Mr T has had as an NHS patient.  In response to 
this provisional decision,  Id like AXA to confirm  how many  overnight stays Mr T had in the 
NHS hospital between 8 August 2016  and 16 January 2017 (Ill explain why Ive used this 
second date below)  and also confirm  the cost to it of a private bed at the hospital. 
On 16 January 2017, Mr T advised AXA he needed a radical cystectomy.  It was at this point 
that AXA discussed the possibility of a network  override.  It explained what  that meant  and 
confirmed it would allow Mr T to have his procedure as a private  patient at the NHS hospital. 
Mr T was happy to go ahead with this. However, during this call, AXA put forward the option 
of something called Personalised  Care/Services. This isnt a benefit  under the policy,  but 
essentially its an offer of financial support by way of a lump sum,  if a member chooses  to 
have their treatment carried out under the NHS.  
Mr T had a number of discussions with AXA about the Personalised Care lump sum payable 
to him if he went ahead with his procedure under the NHS. In the end, he chose to accept 
the lump sum and have the treatment  on the NHS. 
However, Mr T now wants AXA to pay him NHS cash  benefit  for that hospital stay. AXA has 
refused to do so, and says it told Mr T it would either pay the Personalised Care lump  sum or 
the NHS  cash benefit, but not both. 
Ive listened to the phone calls between  Mr T and AXA, and it was made clear to him that if 
he accepted the Personalised  Care lump sum for that particular hospital  stay, then he 
couldnt also claim the NHS cash benefit.  He was told he could still claim the NHS cash  
benefit for any future hospital stays. 
I see that AXA wrote to Mr T putting forward its Personalised Care  offer.  The covering letter 
to that offer said Remember,  if you choose  our Personalised Care option we cant  also offer 
you the NHS cash benefit.
Im therefore  satisfied that AXA made  Mr T aware that he couldnt  have  the Personalised 
Care lump  sum and still claim  NHS  cash benefit  for that hospital stay. 
Also, given that Mr T was aware  on 16 January  2017 of the possibility of a network override, 
I dont require AXA to pay him compensation for any hospital stays  he had after this time as 
an NHS patient.  
Mr T wants AXA to refund  the premiums hes paid since 2016 when he transferred his 
treatment to the NHS. However, in the 2016/17 policy  year he received private treatment, as 
well as the Personalised Care lump  sum and NHS cash benefit. This amount exceeds the 
premium he paid in that year. I therefore  dont require AXA to refund his premiums for that 
year. 
AXA has offered  to refund Mr Ts premiums from May 2017, as this is when his policy  
renewed. I think that was reasonable. I see that Mr T has since  accepted this offer and his 
policy has been cancelled. I therefore dont require AXA to do anything  further  in this 
respect.
Ref: DRN52510453Mr T also complains  that AXAs cancer care team didnt  get in touch with him following his 
cancer diagnosis,  as it was supposed  to. 
I see from AXAs notes that a member of the cancer care team had intended to contact Mr T 
on 22 July 2016,  however  this call wasnt made. When Mr T called the cancer care team on 
8 August 2016,  the staff member explained that shed  intended  to call him but had problems 
finding his details. She apologised for not calling him. Mr T accepted  her apology. At the end 
of the call, the staff member gave Mr T the direct number for the cancer care team. 
It is unfortunate that AXAs  cancer care team  didnt  call Mr T when it accepts it should have 
done. However, a staff member in that team apologised  to Mr T directly  at the time, and AXA 
has again since apologised. I think thats  reasonable.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr T responded with the following main points:
-He doesnt  agree that hes ever been  offered a network override.
-He thinks AXAs cancer team should have talked him through  the policy benefits.
-Whilst his nearby private hospital  wasnt able to do some of the treatment he needed,  
he thinks there was no reason why he couldnt have gone  there for scans. He says 
this option wasnt  discussed with him.
-He thinks it should be taken into account  that whilst there was a private  ward  at his 
local NHS hospital, it wasnt a private  hospital. 
-He says AXA was responsible for him going down the NHS route  in the first place, 
and he would have  travelled further afield to a different private  hospital  if hed been 
given the option.  
-He says he didnt  understand the consequences of accepting the Personalised  Care  
offer as he wasnt aware a network  override was possible at this stage.
-He would like me to clarify whether  my award includes the cost of treatments that 
would have been incurred by AXA if hed been treated privately. 
AXA responded to say that I confirmed in my provisional decision that the treatment for the 
10 August 2016  hospital admission could have been received privately in the NHS hospital. 
AXA would like me to explain where I obtained  this information. AXA also said the treatment 
Mr T had in September and October  2016 in the NHS hospital  was carried out on a day-
patient basis. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr T has raised  a number of points,  and Ill answer them  in turn. 
Mr T doesnt agree that hes ever been  offered a network override. Ive listened to the 
relevant phone call from January  2017 again, and Im satisfied that AXA made Mr T aware of 
the network override.  It didnt offer it at this time, because it explained it would need 
confirmation from his treating  consultant  that the procedure couldnt  be done at the local 
private hospital and would instead need  to take place at the NHS  hospital. I think  that was 
reasonable. The possibility of a network override didnt go any further,  because  Mr T 
accepted the Personalised Care option instead.  
Ref: DRN52510454Mr T thinks AXAs cancer team should have talked him through  the policy benefits. There 
were several calls that took place between Mr T and the cancer team  and Im satisfied the 
cover available under the policy was explained  when he asked about it. I dont think the 
cancer team needed to particularly talk through all the available  cover  offered under the 
policy, as Mr T had his policy document which confirmed this in detail.
Mr T makes the point that whilst  his local private hospital wasnt able to provide some of the 
treatment he needed, he says there was no reason why he couldnt have gone there for 
scans or other treatment.  Having listened  to the calls, Im satisfied Mr T was aware he could 
do this and AXA also confirmed this to him. 
Mr T says that whilst there was a private ward  at his local NHS  hospital, it wasnt  a private  
hospital. He says he would have travelled further afield to a different private hospital if hed 
been given the option. 
If Mr T had wanted to have treatment  at a different private hospital and was willing  to travel 
there, then I think it would be reasonable for him to have made AXA aware of this. Instead, 
he told AXA hed decided to have his treatment at his nearby NHS hospital.  I dont think  AXA 
needed to tell him he could go to a different private hospital if he wanted to, as I think  Mr T 
understood this.
Mr T says he didnt  understand the consequences of accepting the Personalised Care offer 
as he wasnt aware  a network override was possible at that stage.  After  listening again to the 
relevant call, Im satisfied  AXA made  Mr T aware  of the possibility of a network override 
before it put forward the possibility of a Personalised  Care  offer as an alternative. 
Mr T has asked me to clarify if my award includes the cost of treatments  that would have 
been incurred  by AXA if hed been treated  privately. I can confirm  my award  doesnt  include 
this. If Mr T had paid for the treatment himself,  then I would  require AXA to reimburse him. 
However the treatment  was provided under the NHS at no cost to him. Consequently, there 
hasnt been a financial loss to Mr T, only a loss of comfort as a result  of having his treatment 
at an NHS  hospital  rather than a private one. It is this loss of comfort for which Im requiring 
AXA to compensate.
AXA has asked me to confirm where  I obtained  the information that led me to believe Mr T 
could have received private treatment at the NHS hospital for his overnight hospital stay on 
10 August 2016.
As Ive mentioned  above, when AXA told Mr T about the possibility of a network override in 
January 2017,  it explained that so long as his consultant confirmed he couldnt have the 
treatment at his local private hospital and it needed to be carried  out at his local NHS 
hospital, then a network override could take place.  I assume this would have  also been the 
case in August 2016. Mr T explained  to AXA at that time that the procedure couldnt  take 
place at his local private  hospital because it didnt have the necessary facilities. I have no 
reason to think that wasnt the case.  Mr T therefore  had the procedure at his local NHS 
hospital. 
That NHS hospital has a private  ward, however the hospital isnt on AXAs  recognised 
hospitals list for the treatment Mr T needed.  Therefore,  if a network  override had taken 
place, I think its reasonable to assume  that Mr T could have been  admitted on to the private 
ward, instead of as an NHS patient.
Ref: DRN52510455Having considered all of the further  comments, Im satisfied that my provisional  decision 
should stand.  I therefore still require AXA to pay compensation for the loss of comfort  
experienced by Mr T for any overnight  NHS  hospital stays  between 8 August 2016  and 16 
January 2017.  I dont  require it to pay any additional  compensation.  
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt responded to my request that it confirm the cost to it of a private  
bed at the hospital. However, it should confirm this to Mr T if he decides  to accept this 
decision. 
AXA has confirmed that Mr Ts hospital  admissions in September and October 2016 were on 
a day-patient basis. I dont require AXA to pay any compensation relating to day-patient  
admissions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mr T compensation equivalent to the following:
-the cost to it of providing a bed at the hospital  at which he would have been treated 
as a private patient for any overnight  hospital stays between  8 August 2016 and 16 
January 2017.  Any NHS cash benefit already paid for those hospital stays  can be 
deducted from this. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5251045