K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains as a director of A, a limited  company, that HSBC UK Bank  plc (HSBC) wont 
refund him after he was the victim of a scam. 
Background
What Mr P says
Mr P had a business account with HSBC. He says that in late 2017, while  he was working 
abroad, he received a call from what he believed to be a debt collection agency. The caller 
knew details of Mr Ps VAT payments and said that if he didnt make  a payment that was 
overdue bailiffs would be sent out. Mr P made a payment of £6,045 on 1 November 2017.  
This was the same  amount hed paid to HMRC  on 29 September 2017.
Mr P called HSBC to discuss the payment,  but as it had been years since  he last called, he 
was unable to pass security. Mr P says the adviser couldnt grasp the problem  and refused 
to speak to him or help him without passing security.  He went ahead and made the payment, 
but later undertook some research and discovered the call wasnt from a genuine debt 
collection company  and hed been the victim  of a scam. Mr P contacted HSBC the following 
day, but it said it was unable  to recover any funds. 
Mr P says HSBCs advice  is to call if youre  being  pressured into making a payment, he did 
so, and HSBC  refused  to help. He feels HSBC  staff would have recognised this as a 
potential scam and should have  warned him about it. Security questions are only needed to 
discuss personal details  and HSBC could have  given  general advice. HSBC also didnt 
respond to Mr Ps complaint.
What HSBC say
HSBC confirmed system notes record that Mr P called on 1 November 2017 but given the 
time that had elapsed  since  the call a recording was no longer available. Mr Ps payment 
was made  as instructed less than half an hour after his call. HSBC said it took appropriate 
steps when the scam was reported the following day, but no funds remained. 
In relation to customer service HSBC said it had no record  of a complaint about  the scam 
payment. Mr P made a complaint about  safeguarding  in November 2018, but as a result  of 
an error it didnt issue a letter to him. In recognition of its mistake,  and as a gesture of 
goodwill, HSBC credited Mr Ps account  with £200. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He noted Mr P had authorised the payment and 
said HSBC acted reasonably in not identifying that Mr P might  be the victim of a scam. This 
was because considering Mr Ps account  history the payment wasnt unusual  so wouldnt 
prompt HSBC to complete  additional checks. Also, the fact that Mr P didnt go through  
security meant HSBC was unable  to ask him questions  about the payment or the fact hed 
paid exactly the same amount in September 2017,  or answer Mr Ps questions  about 
whether the payment was suspicious.  Finally, the investigator concluded HSBC did what  it 
Ref: DRN51140712could to recover Mr Ps funds. It contacted the receiving bank in a reasonable timeframe  but 
by that time no funds  remained. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for his case  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its been passed  to me. He said:
-In a distressed  call lasting several  minutes  HSBC didnt suggest the request for 
payment could be fraudulent. Instead  it focused  on security questions. 
-Security could only be reset by sending a letter to his home address, but Mr P was 
abroad at the time and needed immediate help. 
-When Mr P discussed what had happened  with a friend afterwards his friend 
recognised the scam very quickly as hed seen something on television about it. Mr P 
questioned why HSBC couldnt do the same given customers are supposed to 
contact it in cases of suspected  fraud.  
-HSBC staff are not sufficiently trained  in fraud  awareness, are incompetent and have 
poor English  language skills.
-HSBCs policy of ensuring  a customer clears security before holding a conversation  
is inappropriate. 
-His call on 1 November 2017 was not to check his previous payment to HMRC had 
gone through but was about the payment that was alleged to be due.
When HSBC submitted its file to this service it said the receiving bank  had confirmed less 
than £50 of the payment remained in the account.  HSBC didnt pursue recovery of this sum 
at the time as it should have, so agreed  to pay Mr P £50 plus interest at 8% per annum from 
the date of the transaction to the date of payment.  
When I reviewed  the complaint, I contacted  HSBC  to ask for additional information. HSBC  
was able to find Mr Ps call on 1 November 2017, so Ive had the opportunity  to listen to it. 
Mr P started the call by saying he was away from home and wished to make a payment, but 
he didnt have his online banking security codes with him. Mr P was told he didnt have the 
type of security required on his business  account to make  a telephone transfer. The adviser 
went on to say Mr P could visit a branch of HSBC  with photo identification or ask any other 
signatories on the account  with internet access to make the payment. Mr P asked how he 
could enable  a telephone  payment and was told hed need to fill in a form and send it to 
HSBC. The adviser  asked Mr P if he wanted details of how to get the form and he replied, 
No, thats  alright,  no, Ive got a different idea  and terminated the call.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having
done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for largely the same  reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Did HSBC do enough when Mr P called on 1 November 2017
Before Mr P made  the transfer on 1 November 2017 he called HSBC.  Having listened to the 
call, which  lasted just over three minutes, Im satisfied  the adviser didnt refuse to speak to or 
Ref: DRN51140713help Mr P and that the issue was not passing caller verification,  but the fact Mr P didnt have 
the required security to make a payment by telephone. 
There was no discussion in the call about the potential payment (other  than that Mr P wished 
to make one), the amount, what it was for or why it was being made. Mr P also didnt ask 
any general questions  that could have  alerted  the adviser to the possibility the payment he 
wanted to make could  be as a result of a scam.  I also dont agree that the adviser wouldnt 
speak to Mr P without passing security,  or that she failed to understand the situation. Mr P 
simply said he wanted to make a payment by telephone and was told this wasnt  possible as 
he didnt have the type of security required for such a payment. Mr P didnt sound  anxious or 
worried during  the call, which he ended  abruptly.  
Overall, I consider HSBC  acted reasonably  and professionally when Mr P called on 1 
November 2017  before making the transfer.  
Did HSBC act reasonably in making  the payment?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment 
in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily proof) 
for believing  that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds 
of its customer  (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
 identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers  in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
 look to identify  and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  (something 
also recognised  by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting 
Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice, which a number  of banks and trade associations  were involved in the 
development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
Ref: DRN51140714fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the
average customer.
So taking all of this into account, in this case,  I need to decide whether  HSBC acted fairly
and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr P when he transferred £6,045 on 1 November 2017.  I 
think it did and will explain why. 
-HSBC should  identify and help to prevent  transactions,  and particularly unusual or 
out of character transactions, that could be the result of fraud or a scam. So Ive 
reviewed Mr Ps bank statements for the six month period before the transfer. Whilst 
the amount of money involved in this case is relatively high, Im not persuaded it was 
unusual. I say this because Mr P made bill payments of similar  amounts  in the period 
before the transfer as follows:
Date Amount Type of payment
25/05/17 £6,400 Bill payment
27/06/17 £6,300 Bill payment
17/07/17 £4,495 Direct debit
30/07/17 £7,000 Bill payment
28/08/17 £6,400 Bill payment
12/09/17 £5,000 Bill payment
29/09/17 £6,045 Direct debit
29/09/17 £3,500 Bill payment
27/10/17 £7,500 Bill payment
-The payment  on 1 November 2017  was to a new payee.  HSBC has been  unable to 
provide information  about any new payees Mr P set up in the period before the 
transfer. But I dont  consider  setting up a new payee on a business account to be 
unusual considering the value  of the payment and the position  it left the account in 
compared to the general account activity.   
-After the transaction Mr P was left with a balance of over £6,000, In the six months  
before the transfer his balance had been  between £53.99 and £28,611.27, so this 
wasnt unusual either. 
-The payment  didnt have any of the hallmarks of being suspicious or indicate  that the 
account was at risk of financial harm. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont consider HSBCs actions in processing the payment 
were unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Recovery
Ive seen a note of Mr Ps call with HSBC to report the scam on 2 November at 08.51. By 
09.50 the receiving  bank  responded.  So Im satisfied HSBC took action within  a reasonable 
timescale. But the receiving bank  advised that some funds remained and indicated a figure  
of less than £50, but HSBC didnt send an indemnity as it should  have. HSBC has agreed  to 
pay Mr P £50, plus interest, which I consider to be reasonable. 
Customer service
Ref: DRN51140715Mr P says HSBC hasnt responded to his complaint. Ive asked  HSBC  for complaint records 
and correspondence  and can see Mr P raised  a safeguarding information complaint in 
November 2018  and chased  a response on 10 March 2019.  On 13 March  2019 HSBC 
responded and said it had registered  and considered his concerns on 12 November  2018,  
but because of an error hadnt issued a letter.  In recognition of its error HSBC credited Mr 
Ps account with £200. There is no record of a complaint  before  November  2018.
Its clear HSBC made a mistake in not sending its letter of 12 November 2018 and this 
caused Mr P inconvenience.  But I believe HSBC has made a reasonable offer that takes in 
to account the inconvenience and upset Mr P experienced, so Im not asking it to make  a 
further payment.  As there is no record of a complaint about the scam payment, I cant  
conclude HSBC has failed  to respond. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  plc should pay A:
-£50 that HSBC didnt recover from the receiving bank
-Interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 2 November 
2018 to the date of payment. If HSBC UK Bank  plc considers it is required by 
HM Revenue  and Customs to take off income  tax from the 8% simple interest 
award, it should tell A how much it has taken off. It should also give A a certificate 
showing this if asked  for one, so they can reclaim tax from HM Revenue  and 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5114071