K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995 to cover two cards.  Mrs N says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mrs N aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding the policy to her cards. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs N applied for 
the policy but Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mrs Ns credit card application form. There  is a 
separate section  on the form that has been ticked to take the policy. The form has also been 
signed by Mrs N in agreement with the selections  that have been made. So with this in mind 
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs N didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs N so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs N has told us she would have been  entitled to sick pay when she applied  for the policy.  
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ns sick pay, and for longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ns circumstances  at the time she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN59020492The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs N any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5902049