K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Mr H doesnt remember much about the sale,  and this is understandable  given how long ago 
it took place. Halifax  says the PPI was sold to him over the phone. Its given me a 
screenshot of its internal systems which show that it was likely sold in this way  thats 
because what Ive seen  shows  Halifax Direct sold it.  
Halifax doesnt have  a recording of the call nor does it have  any scripts to show  what was 
likely discussed on the call. But it has given me a copy of Mr Hs signed credit  card 
application. And on it I can see a printed cross next to where  it says Credit Card 
Repayments Cover  this is what the PPI was called. 
Mr H says that a condition he has wouldve meant  he didnt know  what he was signing for. 
But the credit card application  was likely  sent to him at home after the phone call, and hes 
already told us he gets someone to help him with reading paperwork.  And ultimately Mr H 
had a responsibility to check  what he was signing for. 
 
So, after weighing everything up, I think Halifax most likely made it clear that Mr H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. 
In saying the above, Id like to assure Mr H that Ive considered he was self-employed at the 
time of the sale. But from what I know of these policies  over this period, I think if he needed 
to make a claim on the policy it wouldnt have  been more difficult for him to have done  so 
because of that. So I still think it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ref: DRN57681342Ive thought about everything Mr H has said but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr H.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.  
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5768134