K821x#15Complaint
Mrs E says Marks  & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store card. 
Background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs E took out in 2008.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. M&S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint because I dont think M&S gave Mrs E clear 
enough information about the policy, and I think this wouldve  mattered to her. I say this 
because Mrs E savings and some sick pay which meant she couldve maintained  her 
repayments without  the policy for a while. I dont think that Mrs E wouldnt have wanted  the 
policy if M&S had given her enough  information to understand the costs and benefits of the 
PPI. So, I think Mrs E has lost out because  of what M&S did wrong.  
Ive taken into account M&Ss comments about the amount of Savings Mrs E had in 
comparison to her credit limit. It says that as the savings she had didnt amount to more than 
three times her credit limit that they were  insufficient  to say she didnt have  a need for the 
policy. But Mrs E didnt  need this amount in savings  in order  for me to think she didnt really  
need the policy to maintain her repayments.  Mrs Es savings equated to at least  11 months  
of her net salary  and some sick pay entitlement from her employer. This means  she 
wouldve been able to meet all her usual expenses for this period  of time if she was sick or 
made unemployed. So I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
Putting things  right
M&S should put Mrs E in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.M&S should find out how much  Mrs E would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
M&S should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs E owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, M&S  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN51557802B.M&S should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs E would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  M&S works out what Mrs E would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs E 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, M&S should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs E paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed M&S  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.M&S should tell Mrs E what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give Mrs E a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should  put things right by doing what  Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5155780