K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the way their home  insurance claim for damage caused by 
blocked pipes  was handled  by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs H made  a claim on their home insurance in Mach  2018. The need  to make a 
claim was the result  of the drains at their home backing up. Mr and Mrs H had called out a 
drainage contractor to clear the blockage. After  a number of unsuccessful  attempts to do so, 
the contractor went  up onto Mr and Mrs Hs roof and applied  a high pressure water jet 
downwards through a ventilation pipe above  the en-suite.  Unfortunately  this caused  raw 
sewage to erupt through Mr and Mrs Hs toilet and bath which overflowed into the hallway 
and bedroom  causing extensive  damage. 
Admiral accepted the claim  and appointed a loss adjuster to handle it. Mr and Mrs H were  
moved immediately into alternative accommodation (AA) first to a hotel and then to a flat. A 
number of issues arose during the course of the claim relating to the amount paid as cash 
settlement, the choice  of contractor, delays, a failure to progress the claim without prompting 
and arrangements for AA. Ultimately, Admiral  cash settled the claim around June 2018 and 
Mr and Mrs H appointed  their own contractor to reinstate  their home.  They moved back in at 
the end of August 2018 and complained  to Admiral about the way itd handled their claim 
and particularly with reference to the un-necessary delays they said theyd experienced and 
the stress  this had caused them. 
Admiral investigated  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and, in the main,  upheld it. It accepted its 
initial cash settlement offer was too low (if offered  Mr and Mrs H £13,089 whereas their own 
contractor had quoted to do the works for £22,587) and said its loss adjuster had recently  
agreed to cash settle the claim based on Mr and Mrs Hs contractors quote.  It also accepted 
that its loss adjuster couldve chased  third parties  sooner and been  more pro-active when 
dealing with the claim. It apologised  for any inconvenience it had caused Mr and Mrs H and 
offered them  £200  as compensation for the trouble and upset theyd experienced as a result.  
Unhappy with Admirals  final response, Mr and Mrs H complained to this service. Whilst they 
accepted that Admiral  had admitted it had been at fault over communications by its loss 
adjuster and AA agents, they felt it hadnt really addressed how difficult  and protracted it had 
made the process of appointing their own contractor. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and felt that the compensation  offered  
by Admiral was too low for the extent of the trouble and upset caused. So he recommended  
that Admiral increase its compensation offer from £200 to £500.
Admiral agreed with our adjudicator that it should increase the compensation offered to Mr 
and Mrs H but felt that £500 was excessive. It offered to increase it by a further £150 to 
£350.
Our adjudicator put Admirals offer to Mr and Mrs H but they declined  it. They  felt that £500  
more fairly  represented  the level of trouble and upset theyd been caused. They asked for 
their complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN53430682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
By their very nature all insurance claims attract a level of inconvenience. Thats to be 
expected and isnt something this service would  award compensation for. But where, 
through its actions,  an insurer  makes  an already  stressful situation worse, this service will 
consider whether compensation should  be paid. 
By its own admittance, Admiral couldve handled  this claim with more expediency and better 
communication. If it had done so, the additional  stress caused to Mr and Mrs H couldve 
been avoided.  I welcome the fact that Admiral has acknowledged the shortcomings in its 
administration of its claim and that its offered some compensation to Mr and Mrs H. 
Unfortunately for Admiral, Im unable to agree  that the amount of compensation it offered Mr 
and Mrs H either initially or during our process is fair in all the circumstances.  
I can see from the available evidence that that there were delays in Admirals  appointed loss 
adjuster not chasing the necessary sub-contractors and in failing to take ownership of the 
claim. 
A significant factor in the delay to agreeing the amount of the cash  settlement was the 
omittance of one of the damaged rooms from the schedule  of works. This caused  the loss 
adjusters calculated cash settlement figure  to be too low. It wasnt until Mr H was able to 
speak to someone at Admiral in June 2018  that Admiral realised the figures it had been 
quoting were wrong. Their  frustration  was further exacerbated by Admiral  sending  Mr and 
Mrs H a settlement cheque for the wrong amount when they specifically asked that it didnt 
do so. I can also see that there were  delays in addressing a blocked  drainage  chamber, in 
the loss adjuster responding to a quotation  it received and in notifying Mr and Mrs H that he 
needed them to obtain a second contractor quote.
So its not unreasonable to think that episodes such as these made  an already unfortunate 
situation more  stressful than it needed to be. Indeed I can see that the impact of the delays 
Admiral caused meant that Mr and Mrs Hs preferred contractor had to withdraw and they 
had to wait more time for another contractor  to become available.  
In reaching my decision, Ive also taken Mr and Mrs Hs comments  about the issues they 
had with their AA into account.  Having done so Im satisfied the steps  Admiral  took with 
regard to the sourcing of AA, as well as the allowances it paid them,  were  reasonable. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think that a compensation payment  of £200 or 
£350 fairly reflects the level of trouble and upset that Admiral  caused Mr and Mrs H by the 
way it handled  their claim. Nor does it fairly reflect the level of awards weve  made in similar 
cases. For the reasons Ive given above, I think that Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs H 
compensation of £500. 
Its unclear to me whether  or not Admiral has already paid £200  to Mr and Mrs H. If it has, it 
need now only pay the additional  £300.  If it hasnt, it should pay them £500. 
Ref: DRN53430683my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H compensation of £500  for the trouble and upset caused to them  
as a result  of the way it administered their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5343068