K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt actually sell the insurance 
complained about.  To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mr O says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out alongside  a store card which  Mr O applied for whilst 
shopping in a store in June 1998.
Our adjudicator felt that we should  uphold the complaint. He relied on the fact that the policy 
didn't cover accident  and sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem the 
consumer knew about when he bought it. And Mr O had mentioned  having  a health condition  
at the time - so if he needed to claim for this, he wouldn't have  been  able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mr O had understood this so he could  make  a 
fair choice  about  taking  out the PPI. But he didn't think  that FICL  did enough to make  this 
policy restriction clear - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think Mr O would've taken 
the policy out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that it didnt look like Mr Os condition affected his ability  to work and he had 
medication to manage his condition when necessary. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told up to now, I dont currently  plan to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr O mainly told us that he was working full time when  he took out the PPI so he didnt  need  
this insurance. And he was also concerned  that having a medical  condition  at the time meant 
that PPI wouldnt  have covered him.
FICL has given us a copy of Mr Os completed store card application. Hes ticked and signed 
next to where  it says on the application form Yes, I would like to protect my Account  with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. 
So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mr O to say if he wanted to have PPI added on.  
Ref: DRN52093672Its reasonable to think that Mr O wouldve read through  something  he was being  asked to 
sign. And as well as signing in the PPI part of the form he also signed  the completed  
application - so it seems  to me that he must  have  agreed with the information  on the form at 
the time.  
On balance, I find that Mr O was aware  that the policy was available as an option  and it was 
added to his account when he chose  to take it out.
As Mr O made this application in a store I dont think FICL  advised him to take out the PPI. 
This means  FICL didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for him. But it still had to 
provide Mr O with clear information  about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to take 
it out. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mr O wouldve acted  differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account what Mr O told us about  his circumstances.  And looking  at the sort of 
policy that its likely Mr O had I havent seen anything to suggest that he wasnt eligible for 
the cover  it offered. 
The policy couldve  paid out a benefit  if he couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. It couldve covered his monthly repayments on the card each month  until the 
outstanding balance was cleared if he wasnt able to go back  to work. 
As Mr O told us he didnt have any sick pay arrangements  at work and no other  ways  to pay 
his monthly outgoings  if he wasn't working I think Mr O couldve benefitted from having PPI.
 
Looking at the likely policy wording,  it appears  that Mr O wouldnt have been covered for 
absence from work  caused by a medical  condition  he had when he took out the PPI. 
But, Mr O also said hes never had to take time off work as a result of his illness.  And if he 
needs to manage  his symptoms, hes successfully able to do that with prescribed medication 
which he can administer himself, as and when needed. So I think  its unlikely that Mr O 
wouldve expected  to claim under the policy for this condition. Or that he wouldve been  put 
off taking out the policy because of it. 
And, as far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mr O was affected by any of the other terms that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about things the policy  didnt cover  wouldve made  any 
difference to Mr Os decision to take it out. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mr O to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But, taking everything into account,  I think  if 
Mr O had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided he still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mr O  and he took it out when he didnt  have to, so it seems he wanted the 
cover. Plus he could  cancel it without further cost at any time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr O, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.  
Ref: DRN52093673In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mr O off taking  it out. Ive not seen 
enough so far to suggest that at the time he took the PPI out Mr O had any reason to think  
hed be likely  to have  to take time off work sick as a result of his existing medical condition 
for long enough  to want to make a claim under the policy. So I cant fairly say that hes lost 
out as a result of paying for the policy. 
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell FICL that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr O told us that he has nothing further  to add after seeing what I've said in my provisional 
decision.
FICL has made no further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that have changed  my view, I still think  its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5209367