K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Connells Limited mis-sold a contents insurance policy to her for her 
tenanted flat.
 
background
Mrs H owns a property with her husband that they let out to tenants. In February 2015, 
during a visit to the letting agents  offices,  Mrs H was sold a contents  policy  for their property.  
In January 2019, the letting agent  contacted Mrs H to let her know  that the tenants were 
having problems  with the electrical supply. It was discovered by the second electrician that 
attended that the flat above had a water leak which was tracking down  the walls into the fuse 
box in Mr and Mrs Hs flat. 
Mrs H made  a claim under her contents  policy. She was concerned that the costs were  
getting quite significant  she had had two electrician call outs and it looked like she would 
need to replace the fuse box, and have  it certified.  And she said she may have to give her 
tenants a rent reduction.  The insurer told Mrs H that the policy didnt cover her for any of the 
costs she wanted  to claim for except perhaps a replacement  living  room carpet. 
Mrs H complained to Connells that it had mis-sold her the policy because it wasnt  fit for 
purpose. She said the lettings agent  that had sold her the policy  had said it would provide 
cover for all fixtures  and fittings in the flat, kitchen  units, electric panel  heaters, water 
heaters, electricity supplies,  bathroom fittings  and carpets. Over the course of the next two 
and a half months or so, Mrs H chased Connells for a response, and it was only when she 
contacted head office that she was told the complaint was being considered by its 
compliance department.  
Connells issued its final response  to Mrs Hs complaint in March  2019. It said its staff werent  
trained to give insurance advice and were only able to provide her with the documentation 
provided by the insurer so that she was able to make an informed decision about whether 
the policy was suitable for her needs.  It said there  was no evidence shed been given 
misleading information about the extent of cover provided by the policy. 
Unhappy with Connells  findings, Mrs H complained  to this service. Our investigator looked 
into her complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. She didnt think there was enough 
evidence to allow her to conclude that the policy had been  mis-sold. 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator. She said she hadnt looked  at the policy  
documentation because  the person who sold it to her was a consultant but clearly  she had 
received incorrect advice from untrained persons. She also provided  a detailed account  of 
her recollection of the sale in 2015. Mrs H said her policy had been sold by Connells in-
house insurance consultant and it was him who had recommended its suitability  to her. She 
said she had no reason to question the advice he gave her. Mrs H said she had been  
shocked to discover  that none  of Connells  staff were trained  to sell the insurance policies 
they are advising clients  to buy. She also referred  to an email sent to her by the consultant 
who sold her the policy  admitting  to being  the worst  lettings manager around.  Mrs H said 
shed paid out for a policy she didnt need  for 4 years.  And she said she was unhappy with 
how Connells had treated her when she did make  her complaint.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN55543982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for the disappointment I know  
it will cause  Mrs H, I dont  think  her complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The sale of Mrs Hs policy was non-advised. Essentially this means that the financial 
business responsible for selling the policy (Connells) provided Mrs H with no advice or 
recommendation about the suitability of the policy for her needs. All that is required in a non-
advised sale is for the seller to provide the consumer with enough  information  to allow  them 
to decide if the policy  meets their needs. Any information provided must be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
 
Conversely, an advised  sale means the seller  is recommending  or advising that the 
consumer buys a particular policy. The seller  in an advised sale has a duty to ensure that the 
policy being recommended  is suitable  for the customers needs. The seller will need to ask 
enough questions  to assess the consumers  needs and to show that the policy ultimately  
recommended is suitable.  Typically,  the seller will provide the consumer with a demands 
and needs statement (identifying what the consumers  demands and needs are thereby 
showing they have  been discussed) or complete  a fact find document  outlining the 
questions asked and showing how the consumers needs have been met. 
Ive seen no evidence  that the sale of Mrs Hs policy was an advised sale. There  is only 
limited information related  to the sale available,  but I can see that Mrs H was provided with 
the required policy documentation (policy schedule, document, statement of fact and 
welcome letter) at the time of the sale. So, its reasonable  to think that Connells discharged 
its obligations to provide  Mrs H with enough information to decide if the policy  was suitable 
for her. Mrs H has said that she didnt read the policy  documents  but rather relied on what 
she was told by the consultant in the letting agent.  
The policy document set out what is covered and whats excluded. There is a definitions 
section and I can see that the policy  definition  of buildings included landlords  fixtures  and 
fittingscontained within the boundaries of the home. I can see though  that the policy  
didnt include buildings cover, only cover for contents. The policy  definition  of contents is 
household goods, owned by, or the legal  responsibility of you but excludes Any part of the 
structure, fixtures and fittings
I have thought about what Mrs H said the consultant  told her the policy covered her for at 
time of the sale. I appreciate she maintains she was advised to take the policy out and that it 
was suitable for her needs. Such evidence as does exist though, indicates that the sale was 
non-advised. And without any contemporaneous documentary evidence  to show the sale 
was conducted  on an advised basis, I cant reasonably disregard the evidence that indicates 
it was a non-advised sale. The evidence  Im referring to includes the fact that Connellss staff 
arent trained to provide  advised sales and that they are only able to provide  customers  with 
the necessary  paperwork to allow  them to make an informed choice. In addition, theres no 
demands and needs  statement or fact find available which  Id expect to see if the sale was 
advised.  
As there is no documentary evidence  that any advice was given I cant  fairly and reasonably 
conclude Mrs H was misled and that her policy was mis-sold. I fully appreciate that Mrs H 
feels she spent four years paying for a policy she didnt  need given her flat was let 
unfurnished (meaning she had few, if any, fixtures and fittings within  in it to insure) but 
Ref: DRN55543983without any documentary evidence that she was advised the policy  was suitable for her, I 
cant reasonably  find that it was unsuitable.  
Mrs H has also complained about  the way that Connells  handled her complaint when she 
made it. At the risk of disappointing Mrs H again, Im afraid  that this service is unable to 
consider complaints related to how financial businesses  handle the complaints of their 
customers. Not all complaints we receive  fall within our jurisdiction and a complaint about 
complaint handling is one such  type of complaint we are unable  to look at. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5554398