K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr B was given a Safety  Net facility in February 2015. This was a running  credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit of Mr Bs facility in February 2015 was £300. The limit was increased to 
£380 in May 2015 and then to £440  in June 2015. Mr B stopped  using the facility in
July 2015. Mr Bs account then went into arrears because of financial difficulties and no 
further payments  were  made until 2017.  When Mr B complained to this Service there was 
still an outstanding  balance that needed  to be repaid.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Bs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried  out 
before granting  the facility were proportionate and that the information  SNC gathered  about  
Mr Bs circumstances suggested he would be able to afford  the repayments. So, she didnt 
think it was wrong of SNC to offer the facility.
The adjudicator also didnt think the way Mr B used his facility  was concerning until 
16 June 2015.  By this point, the adjudicator didnt think further drawdowns shouldve been  
allowed as she thought Mr B appeared to be struggling to manage his commitments  and had 
become reliant  on the facility.    
Mr B appears to agree with the adjudicators assessment. SNC didnt agree with the 
assessment. It considers  that the facility was affordable for Mr B when each drawdown was 
made. SNC  also says that as there was no objective  reason to withdraw the credit facility in 
June 2015, it acted fairly by continuing  to offer drawdowns and that this was in line with the 
spirit of regulatory guidance about credit  cards.  
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  given.
Both Mr B and SNC  appear to accept that it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to have been  
approved or for the first seven drawdowns  to have been lent (up until June 2015). As such,  it 
seems that this lending  is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a finding about it.
So instead,  this decision will focus on whether SNC did anything wrong when it granted the 
drawdowns from 16 June  2015. But I have kept the other  lending  in mind  when thinking 
about the overall lending  relationship between  SNC  and Mr B.
Ref: DRN59070592When SNC agreed the drawdown on 16 June 2015 there was an expectation  that it would 
review and monitor how Mr B was using the facility. Indeed, the guidance at the time that 
can be found in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC) 6.7.2 says;
A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action 
where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. 
What this means is that it wasnt  enough  for SNC  to just carry out an assessment before the 
facility was approved  or where  there  was an increase in the credit limit, it needed to continue  
to monitor how Mr B used the facility  and then step in and provide help when or if it could 
see he was or was likely having  financial difficulties.
Having reviewed the same information that SNC saw, I agree with our adjudicator that there 
was clear information which ought to have led SNC to decline Mr Bs request for any further  
drawdowns from 16 June  2015. I think SNC ought to have been reasonably aware that by 
this point Mr B wasnt using the facility in a sustainable manner. Ill explain why. 
SNC had access to the bank account into which the drawdowns were transferred. From what  
I can see Mr Bs main  bank account  was continuously overdrawn.  He had another  account  
from which he transferred his monthly income, but he wasnt using this account on a day to 
day basis. 
What seemed to happen was that when Mr B reached his overdraft limit the SNC  topped  up 
this account  which is a way the facility could be used, and indeed was designed to be 
used. I think SNC needed to be concerned  because  Mr Bs overdraft limit also increased  to 
£2,050 on 30 April 2015. So, it didnt seem as if Mr Bs underlying financial situation was 
improving. Indeed, his overdraft limit was already above his monthly  income before it 
increased. 
As a result of being overdrawn regularly, Mr B was incurring  not only his regular monthly 
account fee of £6 but additional  charges because of unauthorised activity.  He paid £72 in 
January 2015,  £96 in February  2015,  £24 in March  2015, £12 in April 2015 and £90 in May 
2015. And shortly  before the drawdown  of £380 on 10 June 2015 Mr B paid a further £54 in 
bank charges. These additional charges and the way in which  Mr B was regularly using  (and 
exceeding) his overdraft  in my view was a clear sign over the period that he was most likely 
having problems  managing his money.  And the interest that Mr B was paying for the SNC 
facility wouldve added  to his indebtedness. 
I can see too that Mr Bs credit limit was also increasing at the same time there were signs  
his underlying financial situation  appeared to be deteriorating. Three  weeks  after Mr Bs 
overdraft had increased the credit limit for his SNC also increased to £380 on 21 May 2015. 
There was a subsequent increase to £440 on 13 June 2015 when a further  £60 was 
deposited into Mr Bs account  triggered,  it appears, by the Safety Net Level. 
Shortly before the drawdown of £211 on 16 June 2015, SNC  would  also have known that
Mr B had borrowed £250 from a short-term  lender.  I can see from SNCs credit check  that
Mr B had previously borrowed from short term lenders. There  were three active  short-term  
loans on his report. His credit report also revealed repayment problems with several  defaults  
and outstanding loan/instalment credit debt of over £1,000. 
Looking at everything together, I think there were clear signs that Mr B was having financial 
difficulties and this was reflected by the fact that he wasnt using the facility  as SNC 
Ref: DRN59070593intended. SNC says itself that the SNC  facility  isnt designed for someone who is struggling 
to maintain control of their finances  and I think that is most likely what  was happening to 
Mr B. I think this is something that SNC  ought reasonably to have been aware of. As a 
result, there was a clear  risk that any further drawdowns were  not going  to be repaid in 
sustainable manner.  
I note that SNC feels continuing to offer drawdowns in June 2015  was in line with the spirit of 
regulatory guidance about credit  cards which raised concern about  the cancellation of credit  
cards. Firstly,  the SNC  facility isnt a credit card and, secondly, in this case  I think it wouldve 
been reasonable not to allow further  drawdowns because SNC shouldve  been concerned 
about the way Mr B was using the facility and what it was seeing  in his bank statements.  
So overall, I dont  think SNC should have allowed any further  drawdowns  after 13 June  
2015. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr B, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Bs facility from 16 June 
2015; 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr B owes, then the remainder of the refund should  
then be paid directly  to Mr B.
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr B should try and come  to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order  to 
repay what  is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr B fairly;   
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file from 16 June  2015.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN59070594My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
 
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5907059