K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has reported information about him to CIFAS, 
the UKs  fraud  alert service, and that the bank closed his account without explanation. 
background
Mr F held an account with Barclays. On 8 September 2017, his account was credited  with 
more than £4,000 through  three separate transfers. Immediately afterwards nearly all the 
money was withdrawn; most of it at an Assisted  Service Device machine (ASD) at a 
Barclays branch and a cash  machine. There were also some card payments.  
Shortly afterwards, the payments  into the account  were identified as fraudulent   the holder 
of the account  from which  they were made hadnt authorised them.  Following a review,  
Barclays decided to close Mr Fs account  with immediate effect, and wrote  to tell him. 
Barclays says it took this decision based  on a report from the other bank that the payments  
to Mr Fs account had been made  fraudulently, and the fact that the money was withdrawn 
from his account  using his card and PIN, along  with other personal information. 
Barclays closed the account and placed  a CIFAS marker against  Mr Fs name. Mr F 
complained, saying he knew nothing about the payments into his account or the withdrawals 
from it  he didnt think Barclays had treated  him fairly.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but thought  that Barclays  had acted  fairly.  
Mr F didnt  agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  He told us about the 
difficulties he has had in opening a new account and the impact on him. He said hed lost his 
card before the disputed withdrawals and that whoever found it must  have  got his PIN and 
personal information from someone  working  at Barclays. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But having  done so, I have come to the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons. I realise  Mr F will be 
disappointed by this so I will explain why.
Payments
There is no dispute that the money  paid into the account didnt belong to Mr F. The transfers 
werent authorised  by the account  holder  and their own bank will have investigated those 
payments before reaching that conclusion. They were the proceeds of fraudulent  activity.  
Mr F says he knew nothing about  the payments  made to his account or the subsequent 
withdrawals.
The funds were withdrawn immediately after they were deposited. So Ive reviewed the 
available evidence to see how that happened. In order to make the withdrawals and other  
payments, Im satisfied  that a combination of Mr Fs genuine card and PIN would have been  
required. As well as this, for the withdrawals (and the transfer)  made at the ASD, Barclays  
says that Mr Fs date of birth was also needed. So Ive gone on to consider whether its likely 
Mr Fs card, PIN and date of birth could have been  acquired by someone acting without his 
knowledge or consent. 
Ref: DRN56372232I shall first deal with the matter of Mr Fs card. When Mr F referred his complaint to us, he 
told us that he had his debit card with him at the time of the disputed withdrawals. However, 
he later said hed lost his card before the disputed withdrawals took place. He said he 
reported his card lost to the bank on 11 September; that is, after the fraudulent  funds were  
credited to his account and then withdrawn. 
Mr F hasnt  given  us a consistent version of events.  Even if I accept he lost his card in the 
days and weeks leading  up to the 8 September on his way to and from college or misplaced  
it, Id still need  to understand how an opportunist fraudster was then able to get hold of his 
PIN and date of birth. Our adjudicator asked Mr F how this might have happened,  including  
whether hed ever kept a written  record  of his PIN. However, Mr F said he hadnt  recorded 
the PIN anywhere   he said hed memorised it. So, I dont think someone got his PIN this 
way. 
Ive reviewed Mr Fs account statements and note that he made a cash  withdrawal  on 23 
August. So Ive considered whether an opportunist  could have seen  him entering his PIN 
and then stolen  his card. But I dont think thats  likely  to be what  happened,  as they still 
wouldnt have had his date of birth. 
Mr F has said that his PIN and other  personal  information could have come from someone 
working at Barclays. But Ive not seen anything to suggest its possible for staff to see a 
customers PIN. And I know from the banks records that no new PIN notifications were  sent 
around the time Mr F says he lost his card.  
There is another possible explanation for me to consider. That is, that Mr F allowed a third 
party to use his account card, PIN and other  information to withdraw the funds. I think, based 
on the evidence  available  to me, thats  most likely what did happen. Noting  the 
inconsistencies in his version  of events, I dont believe  Mr Fs told Barclays or us everything  
he knows about what was going  on. I realise thats  a difficult  message to receive but I have 
considered everything  carefully before coming  to this conclusion.
Account closure  
Ive thought about whether Barclays treated Mr F unfairly in closing his account. But I dont 
think it did. The terms and conditions allowed Barclays to end its relationship  in the 
circumstances at play here. I know that Mr F wanted  to understand why his account  had 
been closed and Im satisfied  he now does.
CIFAS marker  
Barclays applied the CIFAS marker because it said it believed Mr F had misused  the 
account facility.  Ive looked  at whether it was fair for it to do that. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have  carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially says that Barclays needs  to have enough information to make  a 
formal report to the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there  are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud  or financial crime  has been committed, rather than mere  
suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Fs account of events  and the evidence Barclays  has provided I think 
there would have been grounds to report the events here to the police to investigate,  and 
that Barclays was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker against Mr Fs name.
Ref: DRN56372233I appreciate this will be a great  disappointment  to Mr F as the marker  might be causing  him 
difficulty now and in the future. But given what Ive said above, I dont think Barclays has 
treated him unfairly in respect of closure of the account and recording the CIFAS marker. So 
I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything  further to 
resolve Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5637223