K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC)  has unfairly rejected a claim they made
under their contents  policy  for missing  items.
background
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint recently. A copy of this is attached and 
forms part of this decision. In it I said I wasnt intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint 
because I didnt think theyd been able to show which of about three possible explanations 
for the loss of their property had happened. I also thought  that the most likely explanation  
that the items were stolen by a decorator  meant  that QIC had reasonably  rejected the 
claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is uncertainty  or disputes  
about what happened, as there is here, I make my decision on the balance  of probabilities  
in other  words what I think most likely  did happen given the evidence and the surrounding 
circumstances.
QIC accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs H pointed out that I said I didnt think theyd shown me the items were stolen 
rather than lost or mislaid.  They say this suggests the items werent  stolen  in which case 
they believe they can fairly claim under  their policy.
I could have phrased that sentence more  clearly, and Im sorry if its caused confusion. Im 
not persuaded the items werent stolen.  By that I mean I havent seen anything that 
persuades me it was more likely they were either lost by Mr and Mrs H or misplaced  by a 
grandchild. 
For clarity,  taking everything  into account, I think, on balance,  the items  most likely were 
stolen, either  by the decorator or his colleague.  But, because I dont think  deception  was 
used to gain entry to the house, I also dont think QIC has unreasonably  declined the claim 
for theft.
Mr and Mrs H say that they paid for insurance  to cover their loss however it happened.  Im 
afraid no insurance policy covers every  possible eventuality, and it isnt appropriate  for me to 
tell QIC to meet the claim. 
Ref: DRN59918152my final decision
I realise this will not be the decision Mr and Mrs H wanted, but Im not going to uphold  their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59918153copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has unfairly rejected  a claim  they made
under their contents policy for missing  items.
background
Mr and Mrs H noticed, in October  2018, that some of their jewellery was missing from where
it was normally kept in a bedside cabinet.  They carried  out a search  of the rest of their home
and then notified the police,  and then their insurer.
Mrs H spoke to QICs representative, whom Ill call T. She explained  what had happened
and said the only thing she could think of was that a decorator whod been in the house in
August  and who had left without completing  the work   might  have stolen the items.
T looked into the claim, and told Mr and Mrs H that the claim  wasnt covered  by their policy.
QIC said there was no forced or violent  entry to their home, as required by the policy, and as
Mr and Mrs H had invited the decorator into their home the person had been there lawfully  
and thefts  by such people wasnt covered.
Mrs H argued that the man had posed as a decorator  in order to gain access  to the house,
and that hed therefore used  deception to gain entry. Her policy covered theft in such
circumstances so she thought the loss should  be covered.  However, she pointed  out that
this was an assumption shed  made   there was no proof this individual had stolen the items
and she raised other possible scenarios such as removal  of the items by their grandchild.
She went on to ask what would have happened if shed  reported  the items as lost rather  than
stolen.
T arranged a validation call with one of its contractors. It then wrote to Mr and Mrs H saying
shed said she thought the items had been stolen, and only after the claim was rejected
introduced the possibility of the items  being  lost or moved by a young child. It wouldnt agree
the claim.
Mr and Mrs H complained about both this and the way Mrs H had been dealt with when  she
was talking  to one particular  member of staff.
QIC didnt  change  its stance  so Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mr and Mrs Hs
assertion that the decorator gained  entry to their home by means  of deception, as she
didnt think he was a bona fide decorator. She thought QIC should  meet the claim.
QIC has argued (via T) that there is no conclusive evidence that deception was used,  and
that it has concerns about the number  of versions  of what might have happened provided by
Mrs H. It says some  of those  were only raised after it had initially  rejected the claim.
Ive been asked  to decide this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs H have  had this experience  whatever happened to their jewellery, it
must be distressing to lose such items.
Ref: DRN59918154Ive listened to all the call recordings QIC sent us, including one where the claim was
validated, which took place  in November last year.
was deception used to gain entry?
QIC has rejected  this claim on the basis that, if the items were stolen, then they were most
likely stolen by someone Mr and Mrs H invited  into their home. T says Mr and Mrs Hs policy
will only pay out if the thief gained  entry by deception. T doesnt  dispute that there might
have been an opportunistic  theft whilst the decorator was unsupervised. But it says there
was no deceit  used to gain entry as Mr and Mrs H had arranged for him to come and do the
work.
There isnt a definition  of deception in the policy. So Ive thought about what a reasonable
scenario for this might be. This might be someone posing to be, say, a representative from a
utilities provider in order to gain access. For example someone  pretending  to be from a
water company might  gain access by saying there was an issue with the water  supply and
asking a homeowner  to check  taps in another part of the house. They might then be left
alone for long enough  to steal  items.
Mr and Mrs H argued  that there was deception  because if the items were stolen  by the
decorator then hed posed as a decorator in order to get into their home  and steal  things.
They say this is supported  by the fact that the man left the (poor quality) work unfinished and
wouldnt come back to finish  it. Furthermore he left some of his belongings behind, so they
think he never  intended  to return.
Ive thought about whether that amounts to deception  or whether  the decorator was simply
incompetent and thats the reason why he left low value  items at the house and didnt
complete the work.
Mr and Mrs H say the man was recommended. The recommendation appears to be from
someone (a decorating business)  they didnt know  theyd only been in contact  because Mr
and Mrs H were  looking online for someone to do the work. That business said it was too far
away and recommended the man who eventually  turned up. Mr and Mrs H say they also saw
examples of the mans  work  before hiring him.
I think,  unlike our investigator, that, in all likelihood,  entry wasnt gained  by deception. Its
clear Mr and Mrs H wanted  the man they hired  to do the work, even though they didnt know
much about him. They  were  content to leave him unsupervised for periods of time  either
whilst one of them was in a different part of the house or, it appears,  when both Mr and Mrs
H were out. And they let him in on several occasions.
Mr and Mrs H went so far as to allow  the decorator to bring a colleague into the house. He
might have been the thief rather  than the decorator. But I cant say he gained entry by
deception, for much  the same reasons.
I havent seen any suggestion that Mr and Mrs H had any misgivings about  the honesty of
the decorator at the time. That doesnt seem to have  changed even after he left poor work
unfinished. Mr and Mrs H havent, for example, said they checked that all their possessions
were still where they should be. Instead the theft wasnt noticed  for around two months after
the decorator left. 
I also think  that, if the man simply  pretended to be a decorator to get into the house, then
hed have most likely stolen  the items straight away rather than after a few days work. And I
think it likely more  items would have been taken and his work items removed.
Overall, Im not currently persuaded  by Mr and Mrs Hs argument that, if the items were
Ref: DRN59918155stolen, deception was used  to gain entry to the house.
other possible reasons for the loss
I do understand that theft wasnt the only explanation  of what happened. Mrs H has also
mentioned that she and her husband might have lost the items when they were away from
home  she says they were all kept together in one pouch. And there is a possibility her
grandchild played with the items and put them down somewhere where they now cant be
found.
Mrs Hs initial conclusions were that the decorator was to blame for the loss. And Id often
think that a customers  first description of what happened is likely the most accurate. But
even in Mrs Hs first phone call shes not sure that this is what happened. Its just all she can
think of. The only thing that is clear  is that the items have gone  and QIC doesnt dispute
that.
However, to make a successful claim Mr and Mrs H need to show that whats called  an
insured event has happened. Thats because the policy doesnt cover  every eventuality,
only the ones described in the terms and conditions. I think  its fair for QIC to be reasonably
certain what did happen  before meeting the claim. Mrs Hs first thought  was that it was theft
 which Ive already said I dont think is covered  by her policy in the circumstances shes
described. And I dont currently think Mr and Mrs H have shown QIC or me that its more
likely that theft rather than one of her other suggestions is what happened.
other points
Mrs H also complained about the way QIC has treated her  particularly  in one call. I havent
heard anything in particular in any of the calls I listened to. I have heard  the member of staff
checking what  Mrs H said  but I dont think thats unfair, especially when there were several
scenarios being described. QIC thinks Mrs H only suggested  the items  had been lost after it
had said it wouldnt  meet  the claim for theft.  I didnt hear that, and Mrs H has said all along
that she wasnt sure it was theft  just that it was all she could think  of. Neither did I hear her
ask what  she should have said to make a successful  claim. Mrs H did ask what might have
happened if shed said the items had been  lost  but thats not the same as asking for
guidance on how to make  a successful claim.
I dont think QIC did much wrong  during the phone calls. I do think it has potentially  jumped
to an incorrect conclusion about  Mrs Hs intentions when  she asked what  might have
happened in a different set of circumstances.  Having  said that, I dont think this has affected
the outcome of the claim, nor do I think it affects my provisional conclusions.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5991815