K820x#14Complaint
Ms B complains  that MI Money Limited told her she was guaranteed to get a credit  card,  but 
her application  was declined.
Background
MI Moneys services  include eligibility  checks.  It allows consumers to check the likelihood of 
their application  for credit  being accepted.
Ms B says she received an email from MI Money  which told her she was 100% certain  to 
obtain a 0% balance transfer credit card. She followed the link and applied, but her 
application was declined by the lender.  She said the application affected her credit score
MI Money says its eligibility service is based on what percentage of people with a similar  
profile would  be accepted  for a specific card or loan.  It highlighted its terms and conditions 
which explain that pre-approval is not a guarantee that an individuals application will be 
successful because the lender makes the final decision.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that MI Money had acted unfairly. The lender made  the decision about  Ms Bs 
application and MI Money isnt responsible for that decision.
Ms B disagreed. She said, in summary,  that:
MI Money told her there was a 100% chance  of obtaining the credit.
She wouldnt have  applied for the credit card if shed known there was a possibility it 
wouldnt be successful.
Even though she pays all her lending on time, her credit rating has gone  down because 
of the application. This means  she is only being  offered new lending at a high interest  
rate.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for much the same  reasons.
Ms B received an email to let her know she was eligible  for a new card.  But Ive not seen 
anything  other than what Ms Bs told us  to show that she was told she was guaranteed to 
obtain the credit. 
MI Moneys terms and conditions explain that, whilst someone may be eligible for a product, 
it is never a guarantee  that you will get the Product if you apply.  This is because the 
decision on whether  to accept or decline an application can only be made by the lender. 
Ref: DRN58024742MI Moneys eligibility service allows consumers to find out the likelihood  of them being 
accepted for credit. It bases this on the information provided by the consumer and the 
eligibility criteria  provided by various businesses. Ive not seen anything to show that it made  
a mistake in Ms Bs case. Based on the information  shed provided  to MI Money  and the 
information provided by the lender, she was eligible for the card.  I cant  say why her 
application wasnt successful. But I dont find that it was because  of anything MI Money did 
wrong.
I accept Ms B would not have applied for the card if she knew  her application would be 
unsuccessful. And, although Ms B hasnt provided us with a copy of her credit report, she 
says her credit rating has gone down because of her unsuccessful  application. I appreciate  
this is frustrating, but as I cant conclude that MI Money  did anything wrong, I cant  hold it 
responsible for any change in Ms Bs credit rating.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5802474