K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt help her when a 
transaction was declined  when she tried to pay for it with her credit card.
background
Ms C tried to make a large purchase when she was abroad. But the shops terminal  showed 
that the transaction had been declined. This happened again when she attempted  the 
transaction for a second time. So she phoned  Halifax but she says it refused to cancel the 
transaction. Because the merchants terminal said the transaction had been declined the 
shop wouldnt release the goods to her. So she was left in limbo not knowing if the money 
would be taken even  though she didnt  have the goods. 
Halifax said it didnt do anything wrong.  It said that itd given the merchant the authority to go 
ahead with the transaction. But for some reason it didnt proceed. It said it offered to cover  
the cost of Ms Cs calls as a goodwill gesture.  
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had acted unfairly. Ms C didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand what a stressful situation this wouldve been for Ms C so I know she will be 
disappointed when  I say that I dont  think Halifax has done anything wrong.
Halifax authorised  the transaction  so it was showing as pending. The merchant then had a 
period of time when it could claim the money. That is standard  banking practice for credit 
card payments. But the merchants terminal said the transaction had been declined. Halifax 
gave Ms C the authorisation code to show to the merchant but that didnt make any 
difference. The merchants terminal was still showing as declined.  In those circumstances 
Im satisfied Halifax authorised this transaction and it seems more likely than not that the 
merchants terminal was faulty in some  way when it said Halifax  had declined  the 
transaction. So I cant fairly find that was Halifaxs fault.
Ive listened to the phone call Ms C had with Halifax and I can hear how frustrated  she was 
with the situation. And I have some sympathy with her. But the two agents she spoke to 
explained that once a transaction had been  authorised and was showing as pending  on their 
records Halifax couldnt cancel it immediately. Its systems didnt let it do that. Ms C wanted 
the agents to explain  to the merchant what to do to sort the problem out but I can understand 
why Halifax couldnt  do that as it had no connection with the merchant.
The merchant didnt  take the authorised funds and the transaction dropped off Ms Cs 
account. But she wants Halifax  to reimburse  her for the high cost of her phone call and pay 
compensation for the stress this has caused her. But as I dont think Halifax  has done 
anything wrong  I cant fairly  ask it to pay her any compensation. 
Ref: DRN59186652Halifax offered to pay the cost of her phone calls if she could provide it with an itemised 
copy. Shes now done that. And Halifax said it will honour that offer. So its agreed to pay 
261.81 Singapore dollars into the credit  card or a UK bank account of her choosing. I think  
theres fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. If she would like to accept that offer our 
investigator will help her do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918665