K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains he was charged  interest  on his Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as 
Tesco Bank)  credit  card account because he wasnt told a promotion  had come  to an end. 
background
In July 2016 Mr D took out a Tesco Bank credit card account.  As part of this he benefited  
from a promotion  whereby  hed pay no interest  on balance transfers for two years.  Mr D 
completed a balance transfer and says he asked Tesco Bank to tell him when  the promotion 
was coming to an end.
In July 2018 the promotion came to an end so Tesco Bank started  charging  Mr D interest 
each month. In late October 2018  Mr D noticed  hed been charged  interest  so he called 
Tesco Bank to ask why. It said his promotion  had come to end. Mr D complained,  saying he 
hadnt been told the promotion was coming to an end. He asked Tesco Bank  to refund the 
interest hed been  charged (about £300) and asked to pay off his balance in full. 
Tesco Bank said it had told Mr D the promotion was coming to an end by letter or email, and 
through information on his May 2018 credit card statement.  It didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong  so it declined his request for a refund. Although it did say if he paid off his 
balance in full it would  refund some interest due to be applied (about £13). 
Mr D paid off his balance  in full and Tesco Bank refunded the about £13. Mr D remained 
unhappy though as he didnt think hed been told the promotion was coming  to an end. He 
said if hed known he would have paid off his balance  in full to avoid interest,  as he later did 
when he knew he was being charged  interest. He complained to our service. 
An investigator looked into the matter.  Overall, she was satisfied Tesco  Bank had written to 
Mr D about the promotion  coming  to an end and that it was set out in his credit  card 
statement. So she thought it had been fair for Tesco  Bank  to decline Mr Ds request for a 
refund. Mr D didnt agree,  saying he didnt receive  the letter or the statement. He asked for 
the complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the comments Mr D made 
to me when he asked  me to call him.
Mr D had a promotion  which  last for two years, ending  on 27 July 2018. Ive seen  his credit 
card statement dated 27 May 2018.  This said on page 1, in the top right corner, in a section 
titled IMPORTANT  INFORMATION that his promotion was due to end on 27 July 2018 and 
that following  this, the standard variable  rate would apply.  I think  this information  was 
sufficiently prominent.  Ive also seen a letter dated 6 July 2018. This said - clearly in my view 
- that Mr Ds promotion was due to end on 27 July 2018 and that interest would start to be 
charged. Im satisfied  Tesco  Bank  did enough  - through the information on the statement 
and in the letter - to tell Mr D his promotion  was coming to an end and that he would start to 
be charged interest.
Mr D says he didnt receive the statement or the letter.  I accept this is possible. But 
Ref: DRN55353702Tesco Banks responsibility was to send them, not ensure  their arrival. Ive seen a record  of 
the statement  and the letter being produced.  As I understand it, they were sent through a 
bulk system.  Im not aware of any reported problems with the system. So I think its most 
likely they were sent. I also note the address Tesco Bank held for Mr D was the correct  one, 
and that it doesnt have  a record  of any returned post. Its unfortunate Mr D didnt receive the 
statement or the letter. But I cant fairly  hold Tesco Bank responsible for missing post. 
Im aware that Mr D is disappointed with the customer service he received from Tesco  Bank 
when he called to ask why hed been  charged interest.  Ive listened to a recording of the call. 
I think Tesco Bank dealt  with the enquiry  - and later in the call, the complaint - in a 
satisfactory manner. 
I understand Mr Ds disappointment. He has after all been charged interested  he could have 
avoided. But I dont  think this was a result of Tesco Banks actions. So Im not requiring it to 
refund the interest Mr D was charged  after the promotion ended.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5535370