K820x#14complaint
Mr U1 complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) accepted liability  under his 
motor insurance policy  for an accident when he doesnt think he was at fault.  He wants  the 
fault removed,  his No Claims Discount (NCD)  restored and compensation for his increased 
premium. Hes represented  in this matter by his father, Mr U2. 
background
Mr U1 collided with another car when he pulled out of a junction. He reported this to RSA 
later the same morning.  Mr U1 said the parties  had agreed not to make  claims on their 
policies. He found out eight months later that RSA had settled a claim made by the other 
driver. He thought this was unfair.  RSA agreed  that it had incorrectly said that Mr U1 had 
accepted that he was at fault and not kept him updated. It offered him £100 compensation 
for this. But Mr U2 remained unhappy because of the impact  on Mr U1s insurance. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He listened to the 
call Mr U1 made to report the accident.  He didnt think  RSA had led Mr U1 or pressured  him. 
He thought RSA made it clear that it would have to accept liability  on his behalf and deal with 
the other drivers claim. But he thought Mr U1 hadnt  accepted  liability. He thought RSA had 
invited Mr U1 to provide  details of witnesses. He didnt hear Mr U1 say that CCTV footage  
was available. But he didnt  think this would have changed the outcome of the claim. He 
thought RSAs apology and offer of £100  compensation  was fair and reasonable.
Mr U2 replied  that Mr U1 had only been  told about the claim about eight months after the 
accident whilst RSA had received the claim a week after it. Mr U2 thought both parties had 
agreed not to claim and so he lost opportunity to prove he wasnt  at fault. He thought  Mr U1 
could then have  provided details of two witnesses, CCTV footage to show the other  driver  
speeding and further considerations from the police. Mr U2 thought the notification  call had 
taken place too soon after the incident whilst Mr U1 was in shock. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt  that Mr U1 is a careful  and respectful  driver.  I can understand that this 
accident and its consequences have had a significant impact for his future  insurance.  Its 
unfortunate that it happened at all, let alone  in his first year as a driver. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
RSA is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr U1 to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr U1 has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
Ref: DRN55955052That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability.
As far as I can see, RSA contacted Mr U1 after his black  box notified it of the accident.  The 
accident occurred  at about 8.30 am and RSA told us it called Mr U1 at 10.06 am. I agree 
with Mr U2 that this was close  to the accident.  So I would expect RSA to check with Mr U1 
that he was OK to go ahead with the call and to look out for any warning  signs  that would 
lead it to defer the call. 
Ive listened to the recording of this call, which I can see has also been  provided to Mr U2. 
RSA firstly  asked Mr U1 if he was OK to go ahead with the call. Mr U1 said he hadnt 
decided whether to go through his insurance.  But RSA said he needed to report  the accident 
in any case. 
RSA then asked  Mr U1 questions about the policy, his circumstances and the accident. I 
think Mr U1 answered clearly, he asked for clarification  at times, and I dont think he showed 
signs that he was in distress. I think RSA made it clear that it would be held at fault as the 
other driver was established on the road when he pulled  out into her path. But I heard Mr U1 
say he didnt accept  blame for the collision.
I dont think RSA led Mr U1 or pressured  him in its questioning.  Mr U1 provided  details of the 
police reference  number. Mr U1 said he had witness details, but RSA explained that this 
wouldnt help as it would be held at fault.  Mr U1 said he didnt agree for RSA to admit liability 
on his behalf.  But RSA said it would send Mr U1 a letter to confirm that it would be accepting  
liability on his behalf and dealing with the third party claim. 
As it happened, RSA didnt send this letter.  It later apologised for this and offered  
compensation for this inconvenience. I think thats fair and reasonable but I dont think  it 
affected the outcome of the claim.  
This is because RSA had already taken Mr U1s version of events and told him that it would 
have to accept  liability based on the circumstances and its prior experience. In that case 
witnesses wouldnt change the outcome as they would just confirm the event had occurred. 
Mr U1 didnt tell RSA that CCTV  footage was available. He later said that hed viewed it and 
it showed that the other drivers brake  lights didnt  come on, implying that the driver was 
distracted. But I think this would be very unlikely to have changed the outcome as it wouldnt 
establish the speed of the oncoming  car or that the driver was to blame for the collision.  
So I think RSA reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before 
deciding to accept  liability on Mr U1s behalf. I think  its entitled  to do this by the policy  terms 
and conditions. I think RSA reasonably  compensated Mr U1 for not keeping him informed 
about the claim against him. But I dont think RSA needs to remove record  of the fault, 
restore Mr U1s NCD or compensate him for his increased premium. 
I note that RSA settled  the other  drivers claim on a without prejudice basis.  That leaves it 
open to Mr U1 to pursue the matter  further at his own cost if he so wishes.  I think  thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN55955053Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5595505