K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
As this sale happened many years ago, its not clear how Mrs P applied  for her mortgage 
and PPI policy. Mrs P says the PPI was taken out in 1986 at the same time as the mortgage.  
Santander has no record of when the mortgage  started but it has told us that the first 
indication of a PPI premium being paid was in 1990. 
Our adjudicator thought it was reasonable to say the PPI started  in 1986 at the same time as 
the mortgage. To be clear, I will look at this sale as if it took place in 1990 when Santander 
has a record of the first PPI premium noted. This is the earliest record that PPI was in place. 
In any event, whichever date the PPI was taken out doesnt make a difference to my 
decision.
As Santander has no record of the mortgage, I will also look at this policy as if it were  a 
standalone policy and was bought separately from the mortgage Mrs P took out. I think this 
is a fair assumption to make as Santander  did sometimes  sell policies as standalone 
products and as there is no record of any mortgage.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs P for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  a monthly benefit towards Mrs Ps mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £12 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs P was employed as a word processing operator. She has told us she was 
entitled to full sick pay although  she hasnt  said how much. She also told us shed be entitled 
to redundancy  pay if she lost her job and death  in service benefit.  
Mrs P has said she had a broken wrist in 1964, many years  prior to the sale. She hasnt said 
this caused her ongoing problems. She also said that she later suffered with some  other  
medical conditions  in 2001 after the sale of the policy. 
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ps representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN55034612claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs P and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint and Mrs P disagreed with this opinion for several 
reasons. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a 
decision.
In March 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained  why I wasnt  intending to 
uphold this complaint.  But I wanted  to give some more detail to Mrs P about  why that was 
the case.
Mrs P through her representative  confirmed she had received my provisional decision but 
had nothing further to add. Santander didnt make any further representations for me to 
consider. So, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional findings. My findings  are as 
follows:
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Santander. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
Ref: DRN55034613judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ps case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ps complaint.
 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN55034614-Whether Santander gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and 
Santander, Im not upholding  Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
As Ive explained not all the paperwork from the time is available. Thats not unusual given 
that the sale took place many years ago and businesses arent required to keep  records  
indefinitely. Mrs P also cant  provide  any paperwork in relation to the sale or provide any 
specific details about what happened  at the time.  Thats  also understandable taking into 
account over thirty years has gone by.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  I will decide this case  on the balance of probabilities-  that 
is whats more likely  to have happened  considering the evidence that is available,  what each 
party has told me and also thinking  about  what we know about these types of sales  at that 
time.
Mrs P hasnt specifically said she wasnt given an option. She has told us in her 
questionnaire to this service that she talked about  what the policy  would cover, and the 
advisor seemed  reluctant  to lend if she did not take out the policy. She says she was 
pressured and rushed  into her decision.
Santander has told us that the PPI was optional, and payments would have been taken 
separately from the mortgage. From what we know about these types  of sales  I think its 
likely that the payments  would have been taken  separately and I also think  it likely Mrs P 
would have had to complete a separate application  and a direct debit mandate if she wanted 
the PPI. Overall, I think Mrs P more likely understood she was choosing  a separate product 
to her mortgage and she had a choice about taking  out the cover.
Thinking about  what Mrs P has told us about  feeling  pressured, pressure is subjective  so 
what one person feels is pressure another may not. And Mrs P hasnt given us any detailed  
recollection about why she might  have felt pressured. From what shes  said I cant  say it was 
more likely that she was pushed into taking out the PPI and had no choice about taking the 
cover.
Mrs P also paid for the policy  for several  years  so she could have questioned it at any time 
if she was unhappy  with the policy or wanted to raise any queries. I havent seen evidence  
she did so. 
Ref: DRN55034615Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mrs P agree that advice was provided during  this sale.  
This means  Santander  had to advise Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs P. It seems Mrs P cant remember clearly what  happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. As Ive explained, this is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  There is no specific  evidence to show the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs P would have  been  caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Santander  considered whether Mrs P had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs P given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration the nearest policy  document  
available from the time:  
-Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs P had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Ps ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for sick pay benefits and 
redundancy pay she says she would have  been entitled to. Although  Santander has 
said this policy would  have provided  cover for 36 months  for accident  and sickness  
and 12 months in case she lost her job, the policy document  nearest the date of sale, 
looks as though cover would have  been provided for up to 60 months  for accident 
and sickness and for up to 24 months  if Mrs P lost her job. In either case,  this policy  
would have been paid in addition  to and likely for longer  than the sick pay lasted  and 
would have paid out as well as any redundancy pay she was entitled to. In addition,  
the death in service  benefit was not the same  thing as PPI. It would only have been 
paid out in the unfortunate event of death. So I still think  the policy was suitable.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs P.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs P. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ps employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  In relation to her pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs P has told us 
about her broken  wrist in 1964, many years before the sale took place and her later 
medical conditions.  However, I still think the policy was suitable  I say this because  
Ref: DRN55034616in relation to her broken  wrist theres nothing  in the evidence to make me think that 
this caused Mrs P ongoing problems or that she likely needed time off work because  
of it. Her later conditions  were diagnosed  years  after the sale so wouldnt have been 
a consideration  to Mrs P when she was taking  out the cover.  There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs P be disabled  or unemployed for 
eight weeks before she could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of likely  60 months  for accident or sickness and for up to 24 months for 
unemployment for each claim, this was quite  a long period. And it still provided 
valuable cover; given Mrs Ps circumstances and the fact the policy protected  the 
mortgage repayments relating to her home and the potential consequences should  
Mrs P be unable  to make the repayments  on loans secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mrs P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied, its more likely than not that Mrs P was given  a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs P would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs P Im not persuaded Santander  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mrs P all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN55034617-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mrs P? To what extent did Mrs P 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs P. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs P, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mrs P would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ps circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander  told her the exact premium at the point Mrs P 
Ref: DRN55034618applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mrs P would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs P would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mrs P would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to disability or illness for which  medical advice 
was sought in the two-year  period immediately prior to commencement of cover;
 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be unable  to 
do her normal occupation and any similar gainful  occupation  which Mrs P may be 
reasonably expected  to undertake bearing  in mind her knowledge and training;
The policy protected payments for up to 60 months for disability and for up to 24 
months for unemployment,  rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs P pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs P was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs P wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions. Although  Mrs P had a 
broken wrist in 1964, theres nothing to make me think this caused  her any ongoing 
problems. Her medical conditions she told us about happened later after the sale of PPI  so 
these werent pre-existing. And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest she wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think she had some good  reasons 
to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Ref: DRN55034619If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her 
normal job and any similar gainful  occupation  which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into her thinking about what she would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although its possible 
Mrs P may not have been  overly  concerned  given  that if she was unable  (through disability) 
to carry on her own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mrs P that any claim she made  would be limited to a 60 month 
period for accident or sickness and for up to 24 months for unemployment  This may have 
differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  but this was a longer period 
than Mrs P would have received full sick pay for and her statutory redundancy entitlement  
was also significantly less than 24 months  income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs P would still have thought a policy  that paid 
these benefits  would  have been of benefit to her and would help her manage the 
consequences should Mrs P be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the policy.  
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce her outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time and ensure  her home  was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs P was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN550346110proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mrs P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1990 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs P and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5503461