K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the interest rate offered by Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(M&S Bank) after he applied for a loan. He says the interest rate he was offered differed to 
what was advertised on their website.
To settle  matters Mr A wants to know why he wasnt offered the rate advertised.
background
Mr A applied online for a loan advertised at 2.8% APR. But when his loan was approved he 
was offered an interest rate of 5.8%.APR. Mr A wants to know  why the rate he was offered 
was different to that advertised.
M&S Bank explained  that the 2.8%  interest  rate is the headline rate. But the rate they offer 
depends on the banks assessment of its customers circumstances. They  also explained 
that they use a credit  scoring system and this allocates points for each piece of relevant 
information to produce  a score. In Mr As case M&S Bank said that recent  lending  
information held at the credit reference agency in his name was limited.
Mr A remained unhappy  with M&S Banks response so he brought his complaint to this 
service.
When one of our adjudicators looked into things he didnt think  M&S Bank had treated Mr A 
unfairly. The 2.8% representative  rate is advertised  on M&S Banks website before the 
application process begins. The website  made  clear that the rate is subject to change based 
on information provided by the applicant. And it also made clear  that Customers  who do not 
meet our normal criteria may be offered a different  APR to our standard  rates.
The adjudicator said that M&S Bank  wasnt required to give specific information  about its 
lending decision because this is commercially  sensitive  information. And he could see that 
Mr A had signed and dated his loan agreement confirming the 5.8% interest rate. So the 
adjudicator thought the applicable rate was clear to Mr A before he accepted  the loan.
The adjudicator acknowledged that Mr As credit score was good but this didnt guarantee 
that Mr A would be offered a low rate when applying for credit .
Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators view.  In summary he says M&S Banks  advertising  is 
misleading as it doesnt  make clear that customers with good credit  scores might not be 
offered the advertised rate; that even  if M&S  Bank cant provide reasons why the rate of 
interest offered  to him was higher,  then it should provide those reasons to this service and 
he says the impression is that the loan documentation is completed online  so by the time his 
loan paperwork arrived he had to sign it because otherwise hed lose the opportunity to buy 
a car he wanted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators view on this complaint  and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN58221982I know Mr A feels misled  into taking out the loan, thinking hed get the rate advertised. But 
M&S Bank says on its website that the interest rate offered  will depend on individual 
circumstances. Ive seen  no evidence to show M&S Bank guaranteed Mr A would be offered 
the advertised interest rate if he was accepted for the loan.
And Mr As application was just that  he was applying for a loan at the advertised rate. M&S 
Bank hadnt yet approved the loan Mr A was asking for  they needed to consider his 
circumstances before deciding what terms they would  offer him.
Once Mr As application was considered  by M&S  Bank, they offered him the loan he asked 
for, but with a higher  interest rate. I cant say this was unfair.
I realise Mr A felt he had to proceed with his loan otherwise hed lose a car he wanted to 
buy. But as Ive explained above, when Mr A submitted his application it had yet to be 
approved by M&S Bank  and there  was no guarantee they would make a loan available to 
him So whether  the loan documentation was made  available online or through the post,  the 
loan wasnt complete until it was signed  by both parties and the funds were sent to Mr As 
account. So in my opinion it was Mr As personal decision to commit to buying a car before 
the loan had properly completed.
And I can see that Mr A went ahead and signed  his loan agreement which clearly states that 
interest rate is 5.8% per annum. So I cant say M&S Bank has acted unfairly.
I know Mr A doesnt understand the reasons why M&S Bank offered him a higher interest 
rate  particularly given  his strong  credit  score. But its not for this service to decide what  
rates lenders  should apply. Its up to M&S  Bank to decide which customers to lend to, and 
the terms on which they are prepared to lend. M&S Bank has explained there  are a number 
of factors that would  have been  considered  when  deciding  what  interest rate to offer Mr A. 
M&S Bank dont have  to tell us their criteria. And I cant  ask them to change the terms on 
which theyre prepared  to lend to Mr A.
Im satisfied that M&S  Bank  never guaranteed they would offer Mr A its advertised  rate if 
accepted for a loan, so I dont consider it misled  him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5822198