K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about charges she incurred in returning goods to Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  after orders were  cancelled. She wants a refund.
background
Mrs B tells us that she had an account  with Shop Direct. And that she ordered and returned 
a number of items. She states that Shop Direct unilaterally refunded some charges from 
2018. But as shed had the account for several years previously, she thinks  it should  refund 
all the other  return charges that had been previously made.
Shop Direct told us the refund in relation to 46 returned items @ £3.99  had been made only 
as a gesture of goodwill.  It said that where goods  were returned as being  broken or faulty it 
would refund the cost of return as well as delivery.  It said that if the consumer  cancelled  
under the Consumer Contract Regulations (CCR)  - which allowed for a cooling off period - 
the terms and conditions stated that the consumer would be responsible  for the costs  of the 
return. Where the customer  was returning goods under the cooling off period its terms and 
conditions also made clear this could  be done via the returns note or the model cancellation 
form on the website.  And that some items might be returned free of charge under the click 
and collect service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 September  2020. I indicated  that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint.  I said that Shop Direct had applied  charges which  were  
in line with the terms and conditions of the finance  agreement.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  decision and I thank them for their responses. 
Shop Direct said it accepted the provisional  decision and didnt have anything  to add. Mrs B 
told our investigator that Shop Direct had agreed to reimburse her but had said to reclaim 
the money she would  need to pay for her account statements. Which is what she disputed.
As no new information has been  provided,  Im not minded to change  my provisional 
decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision  which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B would wish to know why Shop Direct is only refunding  part of the 
charges shes incurred in returning goods  which were supplied  before the order  was 
cancelled.
I also accept that most of us would find it tedious  to go through numerous pages  of terms 
and conditions in order to find the relevant clause that applied to the prevailing 
circumstances. But whether or not a consumer  reads the terms and conditions a business is 
able to apply them if the customer has been  made  aware of them.
Here, Im satisfied the relevant terms were  made  available  through the website. This 
includes the fact that statements will be available on the website for up to twelve  months 
after being  posted on it.
Ref: DRN59336242As these  would be available free of charge, I assume its historical  statements that Mrs B 
may be referring to when  she says she was told shed be charged. The terms and conditions  
require the consumer to accept statements in electronic form and recommend they are 
printed off. Its not unusual for a business  to charge  for a paper copy  of statements if a 
customer wants these in addition. 
Shop Direct has given  consent for me to look at all the charges  incurred including those 
which were made more than six years  before Mrs B made her complaint. And which  would 
normally fall outside  our jurisdiction.
Mrs Bs complaint arose  after Shop Direct  refunded her approximately £183 in delivery 
charges. This refund had been unprompted.  And Mrs B queried why all the charges shed 
previously incurred also hadnt been refunded.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  law here includes  the 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 
(CCR).
From the information with which  Ive been  provided  I can see that Shop Direct  has an 
Approval Guarantee policy which  actually  goes further than the requirements of the 
legislation. It provides a period for cancelling an order  of up to 28 days  as opposed to the 14 
days of the CCR.
Broadly speaking, there are two situations in which a consumer is likely to wish to return 
goods. Firstly, if the goods arent of satisfactory  quality  in that they are broken or faulty. Or if 
theres simply been a change of mind on the part of the consumer.
Briefly summarised, the CCR permit  a consumer to cancel an order during the 14 day 
cooling off period  following supply. And they can return  certain  goods which theyve bought 
at a distance or off premises. Typically, this might  involve  catalogue  or online purchases 
which are delivered to the consumers home.  This doesnt require the goods to be faulty. But 
where the goods are being  returned  under this regulation the cost of return  is to be met by 
the consumer.
Where the consumer returns goods  which  are faulty  then Shop Direct will be responsible  for 
the costs of returning the goods  as well as delivery.  As far as Im aware Mrs B only returned 
one item for being faulty and the delivery  and return charge were refunded. 
The relevant  terms and conditions are set out as follows within the Approval Guarantee  
policy.
Ref: DRN59336243Under the heading Returns Policy there is also a section dealing  with the CCRs:
Your Right to Cancel  Your Order  under  the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation  
and Additional Charges) Regulations.
The most relevant  passage reads:
 You are responsible for returning the goods to us if you cancel under these 
Regulations. If you use our courier to return the goods, you will be responsible for the cost of 
the return. In such cases, we will deduct  the delivery charge from your refund so that you do 
not have to make a further payment of the collection charge.
In summary,  where Mrs B returned  goods  under the Approval Guarantee,  she was entitled  to 
a refund of the purchase price of the goods  but not the delivery  charge. Alternatively,  if she 
cancelled any of her orders under the CCR, she was entitled to a refund of the purchase 
price of the goods  and the delivery charge but was then responsible for the cost of returning  
the goods. Because she used the retailers courier, the cost of this offset the refund of the 
delivery charge.
Shop Direct made a gesture of goodwill in refunding  some of the charges. But that doesnt 
require it to then apply this to all items. Im not upholding the complaint as Im satisfied  the 
charges applied by Shop  Direct are within the terms and conditions of the agreement. And 
that Mrs B hasnt incurred  any charges which fall outside the terms of the agreement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5933624