K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that County Insurance Consultants Limited wrongly  increased  his 
premium for his taxi motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr T took out this policy with County Insurance in December 2017. One speeding fix penalty 
fine was recorded  as taking place on 1 January  2014. However,  following the DVLA check,  
County Insurance  saw the speeding issue  happened on 1 November 2015. 
Because of this, County Insurance said Mr T had to pay a further  premium  of £128.28 
(including the £75 admin fee). Mr T disagreed. County Insurance maintained his stance so 
he brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt think County Insurance had done anything wrong. Mr T didnt  agree  so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ive listened to the call recordings. Its very clear  that that County Insurances adviser stated 
the speeding fine was dated  1 January 2014.  Mr T doesnt dispute this. Its also clear  that on 
all of County Insurances documents which it sent to Mr T following his agreement to buy this 
policy, it lists the speeding fine as being 1 January 2014.
The DVLA  told County Insurance however, that Mr Ts speeding fine was dated 1 November 
2015. This obviously made a difference to Mr Ts premium amount as its dated 22 months 
later than what it thought.
Its for the policyholder to ensure all such factual information is correct. Mr T didnt  explain  
the date was wrong on the call recording and theres no evidence  he then explained it was 
wrong when he received  his documents.
My role is to see if County Insurance did anything wrong in setting up this policy and then in 
requesting a higher premium to be paid when such factual information  as a speeding fine, 
had the incorrect  date. And I dont consider it did do anything wrong.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Ref: DRN56183032Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5618303