K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Canada Square Operations Limited  trading as Egg  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Canada Square Operations  Limited  as Egg.
background
The policy was added  to Mr Ls at the same  time as taking out a credit  card online in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Egg shouldve  made Mr L aware he had a choice  about buying  the PPI. It has explained the 
sales process and given us screenshots of how the PPI wouldve been shown to Mr L at the 
time of the sale. I have  no reason  to think Mr L wouldve seen something different. So Ive 
looked carefully at these  screenshots  and I can see Mr L wouldve been given a choice to 
select yes or no to buy the policy. The process  wouldve required an option to be selected 
before an applicant couldve moved on to the next section. And the fact the PPI was added  
to Mr Ls account makes me think its more likely he selected the yes option.
So I think Egg made Mr L aware that he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it.
The policy was taken  out over the internet, without any apparent  involvement from an Egg 
representative so I dont think it recommended the PPI to Mr L. This means  Egg didnt have 
to check it was suitable for him. But it shouldve made sure it gave Mr L enough information 
to allow  him to choose whether the PPI was right for him or not.
Looking at the screenshots, I think the information  Egg gave Mr L about the costs, benefits  
and main limitations of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. So Ive got to consider 
whether better information about  the policy wouldve put Mr L off taking it out.
I dont think it would  have.  Mr L doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover  such  as any existing health conditions  or any unusual  working 
patterns.
Mr L says he wouldve have received sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out alongside these  employee benefits. Mr L also says he didnt  
have any other means of making his repayments   such as savings. So I think  Mr L would 
have had a use for the policy.  
Ref: DRN57903432Taking everything into account,  even if Mr L had been given clear information, I still think  he 
wouldve bought  the policy. Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back  all the cost of the 
PPI to Mr L.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr L about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5790343