K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about GKFX Financial Services Limited voiding trades on his account.
background
Mr E has a trading account with GKFX. On 30 March 2018 he placed about 60 trades  on the 
GBP/USD market and from these  he made  approximately $100,000 profit.
GKFX wrote to Mr E explaining that theyd voided  these trades as they considered hed 
engaged in market manipulation. They said they dont  allow  this type of trading behaviour  
and referred him to the account terms that say they can reject  any trading positions  
considered by [them] to be derived through market abuse.
Mr E referred the matter to our service.  Our adjudicator  looked  in to the complaint but 
thought GKFX was entitled to void the trades.  She explained that the terms of the account 
allow GKFX to void trades if they believe they had been placed as a consequence of a 
manifest error (where the price quoted was inaccurate). And so, in the circumstances, she 
thought GKFX had fairly  exercised their right to do this.
Mr E disagreed and so the matter was passed  to me to review.
I wrote  to Mr E providing my thoughts on his complaint (and shared this with GKFX). I 
explained that while I agreed  with the adjudicator that GKFX was entitled  to void his trades,  
Id come to this conclusion for different reasons. I said:
GKFX has said that your trades were voided  due to being executed in a manner that 
is against their policies. Theyve explained the manifest errors  previously  referred to 
were very volatile tick fluctuations, demonstrated by the attached graph. And that you 
benefited from these  tick fluctuations by a trading strategy known as scalping. Their 
scalping policysets out this practice which they consider breaches their Terms  of 
Business. The policy  goes on to explain that in the event of this type of trading 
behaviour that GKFX reserve the right to void trades.
Ive therefore  considered,  in light of what GKFX has since said,  whether theyve 
acted fairly  by applying  their scalping policy  and thereby voiding your trades. 
GKFXs policy describes  scalping as a trading strategy used to return  profits by 
taking advantage of internet latencies,  delayed prices or through high volumes of 
transactions targeting tick fluctuations (rather than price movements) where  trades 
are opened  and closed very quickly.
The attached graph shows the market you were  trading on at the time in question. 
And from this I think its clear that the market  was volatile and, as GKFX has 
explained, that there were some large  tick fluctuations. Ive looked at the trades you 
placed and there were  about 60 in total. Of these, the vast majority were  opened and 
closed in under two minutes  with many in a matter of seconds  and Im also 
satisfied that they were  placed around the tick fluctuations. Because  of this, I think 
youre trading  activity  was in line with the strategy that GKFX would consider scalping 
as it appears you were profiteering by taking advantage of these tick fluctuations.
Ref: DRN58928622I appreciate you feel strongly  about  this matter and that you consider  it is unfair  for 
GKFX to void your trades and consequently not pay you the profit  that you made. 
But, as Im satisfied your trades were carried out using the strategy of scalping  as 
defined in GKFXs policy, I think it was fair for them  to void your trades as they 
specifically prohibit this type of trading (and reserve  the right to void such  activity).
Mr E didnt accept this and he raised additional points for my consideration when making  my 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to 
change the conclusions that Ive previously set out. Ill explain why.
GKFXs scalping  policy explains that they consider such trading strategy as a breach of their 
Terms of Business. And, that they reserve the right to void any trade that was part of any 
scalping activity. As I remain of the view that Mr Es trading behaviour was in line with the 
strategy GKFX  would consider scalping, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by voiding his 
trades. 
Mr E has questioned the fairness of GKFXs application of their scalping policy to his trades. 
Although I understand his disappointment at them being voided, I dont think  their policy is 
inherently unfair. I believe its reasonable for them to prohibit a trading  strategy  thats used to 
obtain profits  by benefitting from an unfair advantage  in this case the targeting  of tick 
fluctuations. I therefore dont  think GKFX has acted unfairly by applying their scalping policy  
to Mr Es trades.
Mr E has said he asked  GKFX whether scalping was allowed and that they confirmed to him 
it was. GKFX has however said that while Mr E did tell them  that he used a scalping trading 
strategy, they didnt acknowledge or respond to this. And so although  they didnt tell Mr E it 
was allowed, theyve  accepted that their advisor  shouldve correctly  informed  Mr E of their 
policy at the time. I therefore appreciate why Mr E may not have necessarily  thought 
scalping was prohibited. But even though I think the advisor ought to have made  this clear to 
him, I dont  think this means  GFKX  cant apply  their scalping  policy. I believe its reasonable 
for GKFX to operate his account in line with the terms, and policies, that he agreed to.
I understand that Mr E is unhappy  that all of his trades were voided and has questioned why 
at least some of them have not been considered to be legitimate.  Having  looked  at the 
trades in question, it seems the trades were made in quick succession  of one another and 
targeted around the tick fluctuations. I therefore  dont think GKFXs decision to consider 
them all as part of the scalping activity  is unreasonable.
Mr E has also suggested that, as a foreign trader, he has been treated differently to that of a 
UK trader.  Hes explained  that his trades were immediately voided whereas GKFX emailed 
UK trader(s)  requesting  them  to stop trading in this manner  and allowed them to retain their 
profits. GKFX has said that they dont have a set process for how they treat customers in 
regards to scalping and whether they provide a warning is done  on a case  by case basis  - 
assessing the risk each  client exposes  to them.
Ive carefully considered  this but Im not persuaded Mr E was specifically targeted  as a result 
of his country of residence. But in any event, Ive also concluded that he wasnt  treated 
Ref: DRN58928623unfairly in this instance. Mr E made about  $100,000 profit from a type of trading that is 
prohibited. And GKFXs terms allow them to void trades that are carried out in this way. I 
therefore dont  think GKFX has acted  wrongly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5892862