K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  wont  refund him money he 
thinks hes paid out of his account  by mistake. He wants  Halifax to accept this was a mistake  
on his part and give him his money back.
background
Mr S was doing a check of his various insurance arrangements.  He noticed a standing order  
of £24 a month had been going  out of his Halifax account since April 2016. The payment  
was to a life assurance company, which Ill refer to as X. Mr S didnt remember anything 
about the monthly payment. So he got in touch with Halifax.
It looks as though the bank didnt deal with things  for Mr S as well as it could have done 
when he first got in touch.  So Halifax  paid him £30 compensation for the poor service he got. 
And it later gave him £24 to cover  the cost of a number of telephone calls Mr S had to make.
The bank checked its records and could see the regular payment had been set up as a 
standing order  through Mr S internet banking. So it was confident Mr S must  have  set up 
the payment.
Halifax later contacted Xs bank to see if it could help work out what had happened. But it 
didnt get any response.  So there  was nothing further it could do.
Mr S wasnt  happy with what had happened. Although  hed now cancelled the standing order  
he felt Halifax should refund him the payments  that had been  made  in error. The bank said it 
hadnt done anything wrong   so it wouldnt be refunding Mr S the money.
Mr S still wasnt happy with Halifaxs response. So he got in touch with us and one of our 
investigators looked into things for him. But the investigator didnt think the bank needed to 
refund the money to Mr S. It seemed clear Mr S had set up the standing  order.  So Halifax  
hadnt done anything wrong.  The bank had tried to help by contacting Xs bank. But it wasnt 
Halifaxs fault Xs bank  didnt respond.
And in reaching  this conclusion the investigator had considered the requirements  of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  and 2017  (the PSRs)  as these set out when a bank 
can normally hold a customer responsible for payments out of their account.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, he didnt think it was fair hed lost the 
money. He described  at some length  the problems hed had with his eyesight  over many 
years. So he accepted  this was probably a mistake on his part. But he still felt this service 
should agree  with his request for a refund.
As Mr S didnt agree  with the investigators  view,  his complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman to review  and issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56153672I can see Mr S feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to both us and to Halifax. And thats  not surprising. Theres quite a bit of money involved 
here  over £800.  So Mr S is bound to be concerned.
Mr S has explained at some length about  the problems with his eyesight. And the other 
difficulties hes faced  in the past, including dealings with one family member.  Im sorry to 
hear about those  difficulties. Im sure they wont have helped matters.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr S that I agree  with the investigator. I dont think theres any 
reason to ask Halifax to refund him the money  that appears to have been paid to X. Indeed, 
theres probably not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already told Mr S. 
I think the investigator set out the position  quite clearly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mr S that Ive reviewed and considered  his 
complaint afresh.  So Ill set out why Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator.  
We can only make an award against a bank (or other financial business) if we can be certain 
the bank has done something  wrong,  which has led to a loss. And here there is no evidence 
Halifax has done anything  wrong.
Ive looked at the banks  records and they show the standing order being set up in 2016.  
That instruction came  from Mr S. So, unfortunately,  if he got some  of the details wrong  
thats not Halifaxs fault.
While its clearly very upsetting if Mr S has paid somebody in error, Im satisfied Halifax  has 
done as much as Id expect it to in the circumstances. Its contacted Xs bank but that hasnt 
resulted in a response that helps  Mr S. But  again   thats not Halifaxs fault.
I can also see there has been some communication with Mr S about who he might  contact  to 
try and resolve this matter. X now no longer accepts payments in its own right. Its affairs  are 
managed by a different insurance  group. Indeed,  it looks as though the management  of Xs 
business has moved several times  over the recent past. That wont  have helped. But I think  
Mr S should  now know who to contact.
In summary,  I cant see that Halifax has done  anything wrong. Its tried to help Mr S as much  
as it can. But it cant be responsible for an error Mr S may have made some years ago. It 
isnt helpful that nobody  (previously or now)  involved  with Xs business seems to be able to 
trace where the payments have gone. But that doesnt mean  that Halifax  should be made to 
repay the money to Mr S.
And, like the investigator, Ive considered the requirements of the PSRs and the guidance 
from the Financial Conduct Authority  in coming to my conclusion Halifax hasnt done 
anything wrong.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with my decision.  He might want  to take the matter further 
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve  his 
dispute with Halifax  informally,  can do for him. Im really sorry we cant help Mr S any more  
on this.
Ref: DRN56153673my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and 
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) doesnt  have to refund the money  to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5615367