K822xcomplaint
Mr U complains that Nationwide  Building Society  removed his overdraft facility and then 
didnt provide him with sufficient support when he was struggling  financially. He also says 
that Nationwide hasnt paid him for introducing a new customer.
background 
Mr U had an overdraft of a little over £500.  In November 2018 Nationwide  wrote to him 
asking him to repay it in full within six weeks. Mr U thought this was unreasonable, and 
Nationwide agreed  he could have more time. 
In January 2019 Mr U provided Nationwide with details of his financial situation, indicating  he 
had a shortfall in his finances of around  £80 every month.  Nationwide suggested he pay £10 
a month  towards  the overdraft. Mr U said that it was apparent he couldnt afford that, and 
Nationwide shouldnt have suggested  it. 
Mr U felt that Nationwide hadnt been  sufficiently positive in its treatment of him and 
complained to this service. Our investigator agreed  in part, and Nationwide  accepted  that it 
should have provided more options  including a taking only token  payments  for a short 
period and downgrading the account. It offered to:
downgrade the account,  backdated to January 2019 and adjust interest  and charges 
accordingly; 
refund unarranged  interest from May and June 2019;
consider the option of token  payments   which would  restrict the use Mr U can make of 
the account; and 
pay Mr U £150 in recognition of the fact that it didnt handle things as well as it should 
have done.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair in the circumstances. She agreed with Nationwide 
that it was entitled  to call in the overdraft, but that it should have  offered  more options. As far 
as the payment for introducing a new customer was concerned, Nationwide  said that the 
payment was only due of the new customer fulfilled certain conditions, but they hadnt  done 
so.
Mr U didnt think the offer went far enough, and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case  
as the final stage in our consideration of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions.  
The overdraft, as is usually the case, was payable on demand.  Mr U was given six weeks  to 
repay it, and I dont think that was unreasonable  especially as that time was then 
extended. But I agree  that, when it became clear that Mr U was not in a position to do so, 
even with a repayment plan, Nationwide  should  have done  more. It should have suggested 
downgrading the account  and discussed  token  payments with Mr U. Im pleased to see that 
Ref: DRN50801342it has now done so. I would however remind Nationwide  that its obligation to treat a case  of 
financial difficulty in a positive and sympathetic manner is an ongoing  one; but Mr U also 
needs to be aware  that that obligation wont necessarily prevent  Nationwide from seeking 
repayment in the future.
I accept what Nationwide  says about  the introduction payment. Ive no reason to think  that 
its not telling  the truth when it says its other  customer hasnt met the conditions  necessary 
for Mr U to receive a payment. 
It is largely for Nationwide and Mr U to discuss repayment options, but I agree that the offer 
of £150 is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Mr Us complaint, Nationwide  should 
(to he extent  it hasnt already done so):
if Mr U agrees, downgrade the account, backdated to January 2019,  and adjust interest 
and charges accordingly;  
offer Mr U the option of making  token payments, having explained any consequences 
for the operation of the account;  
refund any unarranged interest incurred in May and June 2019; and 
pay Mr U £150 in recognition of the distress  hes been caused.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5080134