K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him four payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policies.
background
Mr W took out a loan with Nationwide in July 2002. He bought a PPI policy  at the same time.  
Mr W repaid this loan in April 2003,  and replaced  it with a new loan and a new PPI policy. He 
repaid this second loan a few months later in August 2004, and replaced it with a third loan 
and PPI policy. And in May 2004  Mr W repaid this third loan and took out one last loan, and 
another new PPI policy. Each of the loans included an amount  to pay for the PPI.
All four PPI policies covered Mr W for accident, sickness and unemployment. If hed made a 
successful claim  for unemployment, the PPI would have covered Mr Ws monthly loan 
repayments for up to 12 months. And if hed made  a successful claim for accident or 
sickness, it would have  paid Mr Ws monthly loan repayments until he returned  to work or 
the loan was paid off - whichever happened first.
Mr W has told us he applied for all of the loans at a branch of Nationwide. But Nationwides  
records show that Mr W applied for some of the loans over the phone. In each case  a credit 
agreement was given  to Mr W to sign to confirm he wanted to take out the loan
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr W was sold the PPI, but with what I 
know about how Nationwide  sold policies like this, I think  its more  likely than not that the 
optional nature  of the policies was made clear. Ive also seen the credit  agreements 
Mr W signed for each  of the loans. They all refer clearly to the PPI as Optional Credit 
Insurance  and the cost of the PPI was clearly itemised.  Taking everything into 
account, I think Nationwide  made  Mr W aware the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he might  not remember  this, so many  years 
later.
Based on what we know about  the way Nationwide sold PPI with unsecured personal 
loans at the time, I think its unlikely that it recommended the PPI to Mr W so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for him. But Nationwide did have a responsibility to give 
Mr W clear  enough information  about the PPI so he could decide if the cover was right 
for him.
Ref: DRN55267952Its possible  the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take out the PPI policies  - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the times the policies 
were sold, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover  - so it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable.  
These particular policies provided flexible cancellation terms. So if Mr W refinanced or 
repaid the loans early  which he did  he wouldve received a pro rata refund meaning  
he wouldnt  lose out financially. 
The cost of the policies was shown  on the credit agreements  including the amount of 
the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr W 
would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if he kept each policy for its full 
term. 
Given how long the PPI policies could have paid out for if Mr W made a successful claim 
(up to 12 months for an unemployment  claim and for the term of the loan for an accident 
or sickness claim), he couldve got back quite a bit more  than he paid. 
I appreciate that Mr W has said he was entitled  to very good  sick pay, but each of these 
policies could have  paid out for a lot longer  than hes said his full sick pay would  last. So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which  means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) on the PPI sold with the loan Mr W took out in 2004  - so it should have told 
Mr W about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right,  Nationwide has paid back  the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premiums on the 2004 loan - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but his points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on the loan taken out in 2004.  If it 
has already done  this, I dont award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN55267953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5526795