K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain, through a representative, about the sale, in 1997 of a mortgage 
endowment policy by MGM Assurance,  now the responsibility of Scottish Friendly  Assurance  
Society Limited. They say they should  have  been  sold a repayment  mortgage instead and 
have lost financially  as a result.
background
The business said it had no documentation relating to the sale.  Therefore it was unable  to 
look at the complaint. Mr and Mrs B sent in what they had from the time. Having reviewed 
the available  information the business  did not uphold the complaint. It said that although it 
was clear a meeting took place with the business, there was no evidence any policy  was 
actually put in place or premiums paid.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and came to us. One of our adjudicators  looked at the 
complaint. She didnt  think it could be upheld. She thought that there was insufficient 
evidence to show a policy had been  put into force. She explained that businesses  were (and 
are) not required  to keep records for more than six years.  
There was some limited information available about  what happened and what was proposed. 
Also, the policy seems  never to have been  put on risk. As a result she couldnt agree the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B through their representative, disagreed. 
It said it had responded  to the requests of the business for further information as and when 
required. It thought the business had enough  information to allow it to look at the complaint. 
As a result it asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint. The file has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs B.
To uphold  a complaint I must be able to say that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to do so. I must  also be able to direct the business as to how to calculate 
redress. That must be a clear and unambiguous  direction.  
The information provided suggests  certainly there was at least  one meeting at which a fact 
find was completed.  Things obviously went as far as illustrations  being  provided. I have seen 
no evidence of any payments made. There is no record of what  the value of the policy  is or 
was.    
There are any number  of reasons why the policy may not have been put on risk or started. 
Some of those reasons  may be the fault of the business (such  as administrative mistakes) 
others not, such as the consumers finding an alternative, preferred, policy provider.
I also take into account the business of MGM was, at least in part, to sell policies like this. To 
put it another way this is what it did for a living. If it was possible to put the policy in force 
and, in effect, generate business and income  I suspect that is what  would  have happened.    
Ref: DRN57983682In summary  therefore it seems this policy was never put on risk. That means  that it cant 
have been mis sold, or that (in any event)  any loss arose from the sale.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision  before 22 February 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798368