K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  a lack of support and understanding from Lloyds Bank  PLC 
when they told it about a drop in their household  income, caused by Mrs H becoming  very 
seriously ill and unable to work during her treatment.
background 
Mrs H was unfortunately diagnosed with cancer, in December 2017.  She had a loan held 
jointly with her husband, and a credit  card account, both with Lloyds, but she realised  going  
into New Year  2018 that she wouldnt be able to carry on working, which  meant a significant  
drop in the household income.  She and Mr H wouldnt be able to maintain the previous 
payments on the loan and the card. 
Mrs H contacted Lloyds  and told it about her diagnosis.  She got a letter from it on 30 
January saying that her case had been  passed to the priority team, but then she heard no 
more. She told us about a series of mistakes  that Lloyds then made, including  freezing her 
current account, although that has never been in arrears, taking a loan payment that shed 
already told Lloyds she couldnt  afford,  so that the direct debit for her mortgage payment 
bounced, requesting medical and income  evidence after that had all been  sent,  and 
returning payments  she tried to make towards  the debts.
She sent Lloyds all her medical evidence and income and expenditure information  in 
February but didnt  get any payment plan. She did get a further letter  in March saying her 
account had been passed to recoveries. Mrs H decided that she would be able to pay £20 
per month towards her loan and the same towards  her credit card, so she started  to do that. 
She told us she received  default notices in April for her credit  card,  and in May for her loan. 
She got a second default notice for her loan in June. She said she called collections  in late 
June and asked  it to stop recovery  as she was making payments, but it just started to charge  
her interest on the loan again. Lloyds has since said that was a mistake  too, and refunded 
that interest.
Mrs H thought her treatment by Lloyds  compared extremely  unfavourably  with other lenders, 
who had simply allowed her to enter  into a payment  plan. She said that this had caused her 
to despair, and had actually been  far harder to deal with than her illness.
Mrs Hs loan was placed on a payment plan in November 2018.  But around the same time,  
her credit card debt was sent to an external collections agency. Shortly  after,  Mrs H wrote to 
Lloyds detailing the extent of her distress, and saying that as a result  of what  it had done,  
she planned to refuse  further treatment for her illness, as she was no longer able to cope. 
In early January  2019 Lloyds said that it had brought Mrs Hs credit card debt back  in house, 
because of further contact from Mrs H. 
Lloyds said that this complaint was about Mrs Hs credit card. It wanted any complaint  about 
her loan to be treated  separately.   
Lloyds has sent us notes of conversations that its debt collections team has had with Mrs H. 
It does have a dedicated  cancer  support team too. But it says that this cancer support team  
has no notes of discussions  with Mrs H. It thinks that team  has never  spoken  to her. 
Ref: DRN59675462Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She thought Lloyds had initially  
responded appropriately to Mrs H. 
Our investigator knew Mrs H wanted Lloyds  to accept an arrangement to pay. But she didnt 
think Lloyds made a mistake by defaulting these debts, because she thought  that was in line 
with the Information Commissioners principles on reporting arrears and defaults. 
Our investigator said Mrs Hs credit card debt was initially passed to a third party to manage. 
Our investigator thought that caused Mrs H further  distress, and shouldnt have been done  
for someone  who had been diagnosed with a serious illness.  After  Mrs H contacted Lloyds, it 
decided to bring the debt back in house,  and set up a payment plan for the credit  card,  
although no additional income and expenditure information had been received. Our 
investigator said this had gone  some  way to helping Mrs H and Mr H. Theyve said theyre 
no longer receiving nasty letters from Lloyds, which is all they wanted. 
Our investigator said that this had severely  affected Mrs H, who had expressed a wish to 
stop her treatment because of this problem. Our investigator thought that Lloyds should pay 
Mr H and Mrs H £400 in compensation. 
Mrs H was concerned that Lloyds  had been  working with another  bank, to make sure that 
both debts were treated  the same. She intended to complain about that too. But having  read 
our investigators assessment carefully,  she decided to accept it as a fair outcome. 
But Lloyds didnt.  It said the original complaint was just about  a default being applied  to Mrs 
Hs credit  card, and that had been  dealt with appropriately. Lloyds said a number of other  
issues, including Mrs Hs loan, shared with her husband, and the lack of any payment plan, 
had been tagged onto this complaint, but they shouldnt be mixed up with this one. 
Our investigator said it shouldve been  clear to Lloyds from the outset what  she was looking 
into. And the amount  of £400 wasnt suggested on the basis that Lloyds was wrong to apply 
a default. It was suggested because our investigator  felt Mrs Hs case  couldve been  handled  
better. She wanted an agreed  payment plan, that request  was turned down, but then a plan 
was set up later with no revised information,  which rather  suggested this couldve been done 
earlier. And passing her credit card debt to external  agents was inappropriate.  
Lloyds then argued that there had been  no complaint raised about trying to set up a 
repayment plan for Mrs Hs credit card account, or about her credit card debt being passed  
to a third party agent for collection.  Our investigator  didnt  change her mind,  and as Lloyds 
hadnt agreed, she passed this case to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Before I produced this decision, I wrote to Lloyds  to set out what I understood the scope 
of this complaint  to be, and why. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is about 
how Mrs H was treated when she told Lloyds she had cancer, and wouldnt be able to 
keep up previous payments. 
-When I wrote to Lloyds, I said I accepted that some of the issues I thought  should  be 
considered had happened after to our services involvement in this case, but I didnt think 
Ref: DRN59675463it would  be in the interests of either  Mr and Mrs H, or Lloyds,  for me to divide this case  
into separate complaints. So I said I would consider the concerns Mrs H has raised here,  
along with Lloyds response to those, in my decision. But this decision would be 
provisional, to allow  Lloyds to respond  before a final decision is reached. 
-Lloyds has committed itself to supporting  vulnerable customers. It has a dedicated 
cancer support  team. I think  it was clear, when Mrs H first contacted  Lloyds, that she was 
in financial difficulties,  and that her illness made her vulnerable.  Lloyds notes show it 
had identified Mrs H as a vulnerable customer by the end of January 2018. But, although 
Lloyds has a dedicated cancer  support team, it doesnt seem to have referred  her to that 
team, or mentioned  it in its communications with her. It told us shes  never spoken to that 
team. I think Lloyds made  a mistake when  it didnt involve that team,  apparently at any 
point during Mrs Hs illness. I think that is likely to have made  Mrs Hs situation worse.  
-Lloyds didnt think it did anything  wrong when it defaulted Mrs Hs loan and credit card. It 
thinks if accounts are going  to default anyway, its best to do that sooner, so that the 
defaults come off earlier. I think that Mrs H was, unfortunately,  unlikely to return  to full 
health and full time work quickly after her diagnosis, so I think  this is probably right. But 
its then difficult to understand  why one of Mrs Hs defaults took place over two months  
later than the other.
-The default date recorded on Mrs Hs credit file for her credit  card is 7 June 2018. I think 
thats a reasonable point for Lloyds to have defaulted this debt, and in line with what it 
had said to Mrs H. The default date on the loan held jointly with Mr H, is 16 August 2018. 
This is rather  later than Id expect,  given Lloyds apparent commitment to ensuring a 
swift default. I think Lloyds should amend the default date on the loan held jointly  by Mr 
H and Mrs H, so that it shows on both their credit  files as 7 June 2018. 
-Mrs H sent Lloyds  income and expenditure information in February 2018. She was 
proactive in making payments  towards both debts,  even thought  no plan had been set up 
on either. She then told us she faced further difficulties, as Lloyds was sometimes  
returning these  payments,  and couldnt  explain why. And, as there was no plan for either  
debt, she and Mr H continued  to receive correspondence from Lloyds that she found 
distressing. 
-Payment plans  werent set up for the loan until November  2018, and for her credit  card 
until January 2019. Mrs H and Mr H have both shown us the severe  impact  these debts 
had on their credit files. I think having two defaults spread over a period of two months 
rather than at the same time, and then no payment  plan set up for either debt for a 
prolonged period, is likely to have increased  the impact that these problems had on Mr 
and Mrs Hs credit files. 
-Lloyds has said that it couldnt offer any plan on the debts, because Mrs Hs income was 
below her expenditure. But it did eventually  set up plans, reflecting  the payments being  
made. It then said the delay in setting up payment plans was because Mrs H became 
upset on a call at the end of June.  She didnt  want to discuss the issues any more, as 
she was becoming  extremely distressed with the combination  of her debts and her 
illness. 
-I think if Mrs H had received the support of Lloyds dedicated cancer support team,  this 
distress may have been avoided,  or at least reduced. But she hasnt had that support. 
Instead, Mrs Hs loan was retained  in-house,  but her credit card was passed to third 
Ref: DRN59675464party agents  to collect. Lloyds hasnt explained  why that was done. It says it wasnt  a 
mistake. But a combination of that, and the impact  on her credit file which  Ive discussed 
above, seems to have  significantly increased Mrs Hs distress. I think  it was a mistake to 
pass this debt to external  agents. Im glad Lloyds has now recalled this debt, and set up 
a payment plan for Mrs Hs credit card. I think its unfortunate the credit  card debt was 
ever passed  to agents, and that payment plans on her debts werent  set up sooner. 
-A diagnosis of a very serious illness,  and gruelling treatment for that, along with a 
significant drop in household income, was always going to be very distressing  for Mrs H, 
and would also have  a significant impact  on Mr H. But I think  that the way that these 
debts have been handled has made an already difficult situation much  worse. 
-Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs H were  probably better off, as Lloyds suggested, 
by having their debts  defaulted promptly. But I also have to take account of all the things 
that have gone  wrong  in this case, and in particular that although Lloyds has a dedicated  
cancer support  team, it tells us this team has never spoken to Mrs H. 
-I think, as Ive set out above, that more things have gone wrong here than our 
investigator thought.  And this is a joint complaint by Mr and Mrs H. Im not clear that our 
investigator had entirely taken  into account  the impact  on him. So I think the 
compensation should be more  than our investigator  suggested.  I think that a total 
payment of £1,000 in compensation is the right amount to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this case. 
-Lloyds has mentioned two payments of £100 and £60 it has already made. It can count 
those towards the total compensation in this case. It cant  count the refund of interest it 
made, as it appears that was wrongly charged. 
Once Id finished setting  out my provisional decision,  I invited the parties to make any final 
points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. Both sides  have now responded, and 
accepted my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Lloyds said it would  do what  Id suggested,  and asked where Mr and Mrs H would like the 
money paid.
Mrs H said that she and Mr H were  pleased to accept my decision, and would like the money  
paid by cheque  
Mrs H also asked if Lloyds could also offer some  sort of apology for the way that she and her 
husband were  treated.  As they are aware, Ive found that Lloyds has made some mistakes.  
But if I instruct Lloyds to apologise now, then I might need to issue a new provisional 
decision, which would delay this payment to them. I dont want to delay that money reaching 
them. And I also dont  think that is what Mrs H is asking for. Shed like Lloyds to offer an 
apology, not to be made to apologise by our service. So Ill leave it to Lloyds to decide if it 
will apologise to Mr and Mrs H for the mistakes Ive found that it has made.
Ill now make  the decision  I originally proposed. 
Ref: DRN59675465my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must amend the default date for Mr H and Mrs Hs 
joint loan to 7 June 2018, and must  pay them a total of £1,000 in compensation. Lloyds Bank  
PLC can count two payments of £100 and £60 it has already made towards the total 
compensation in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5967546