K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc trading as Britannia (The Co-op)  
mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  in connection 
with their joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs R complained  to this Service. They said they applied for their mortgage and PPI 
in 1996. The first 12 months were free of charge. When the free year expired in 1997, The 
Co-op sent them a letter  strongly advising and urging them  to continue the PPI policy.  So 
Mr and Mrs R conclude The Co-op sold the PPI in 1997 and that it is responsible  for looking  
at this PPI mis-sale complaint.
The Co-op said it was not responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint because  the 
PPI was originally sold in 1996 with the mortgage by Mr and Mrs Rs estate agent - I will call 
him Mr L. It says the policy simply continued  in 1997. There  was no new sale or new policy 
issued in 1997.
Our adjudicator thought The Co-op  was responsible for looking at the complaint. The Co-op  
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in February where I explained why I thought the PPI had 
been sold in 1996 by The Co-op. I also explained  that I was not going to uphold the 
complaint but that The Co-op would  have to pay back some of the commission  it received. I 
sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. I invited them  to make any further  
comments - I consider that both parties  have now had sufficient time to do that. Both parties 
confirmed they accepted  my provisional  decision and had nothing  further  to add. As there  is 
no new evidence for me to consider,  I see no reason to change the conclusions I made in 
my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
The first thing I need to decide is when the sale occurred and whether The Co-op  is 
responsible for the sale of the policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale 
happened as it shouldve done.  However, if I dont think  The Co-op was responsible for the 
sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs R, then Im not able to say that The Co-op did anything  
wrong.
In this case, I will be saying that the PPI was sold in 1996 and that The Co-op is responsible 
for looking at this PPI complaint but I will not be upholding the mis-sale complaint against it. I 
know this will be a disappointing result  for Mr and Mrs R, so I will explain why.
who sold the PPI and when?
I have looked  carefully  at the evidence produced in this case.  The Co-op sent us a copy  of 
the mortgage application. Section J is headed  Mortgage Payment Protection. The section 
asks: Do you require a Payment Protection  application and next to that the Yes box is 
Ref: DRN55692882ticked. So it might look like Mr and Mrs R chose to have  PPI added to their mortgage 
account in 1996 when  offered it by the broker at the time of applying  for the mortgage.  I can 
also see the person  completing the mortgage form was Mr L. The Co-op says this was Mr 
and Mrs Rs estate agent.
However, the question  in section J asked whether they wanted a PPI application . 
The Co-op told us its usual process  was that it received the mortgage application from the 
broker with the request  for a PPI application  and it sent the details  to the consumer.  It was 
entirely a matter for the customer to determine  if they wished to take advantage of the cover  
or not.  As the PPI application  was sent direct  to the consumer and the consumer had to 
decide whether  to take the policy or not, I think the policy  was actually sold by The Co-op in 
1996 on a non-advised  basis.  I accept The Co-op cannot say for sure that this process 
happened in this case as they no longer  have  all their documents; but it said this was the 
process for many cases, so it is reasonable to assume the same  process was applied here.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs point when they say the policy  was sold in 1997. They  said that 
after the 12 month free period had expired, they received letters  from The Co-op strongly  
advising  and urging  them to take out PPI; however, this was not a new policy. It was a 
continuation of the policy taken out in 1996  albeit they had to start paying  for it in 1997.  So 
Im satisfied the policy was sold in 1996  and that The Co-op  is responsible for looking at this 
complaint. 
the merits of the complaint
Again, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think The Co-op made it clear on the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs R 
didnt have to take out the PPI but they chose to have a PPI application sent out to them  
and they chose to complete it and return it to The Co-op. They said they were expected 
to take out the PPI but I have  not seen  any evidence of this on the face of the mortgage 
application. So I cannot uphold their complaint on this point. 
 The Co-op didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R in 1996 so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs R got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
 Its possible the information The Co-op  gave  Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
- so it would  have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put 
them off taking out the cover.  
 Which means The Co-op doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs R.
But The Co-op  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Ref: DRN55692883The Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because The Co-op didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, The Co-op has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R has said - including what theyve said about 
having personal savings; feeling  it was expected of them to take out the PPI in 1996; that 
their family could have  helped them  make  repayments; and that there was a 90 day 
deferment period.  But these points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
The Co-op has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. The Co-op should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs R any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
The Co-op should pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. The Co-op should 
also pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc is responsible for selling this PPI but the PPI policy wasnt mis-
sold  so The Co-operative Bank  Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs R.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5569288