K821x#15Complaint
Mrs I has complained that V5 Loans  Limited (V5) provided her with unaffordable logbook  
loans. She says that she was already in a very large  amount of debt with late payments  and 
defaults on her credit  cards and loans. She also says that her mortgage lender  had already  
begun repossession proceedings against  her on account of her arrears.
Background
V5 provided Mrs I with a first logbook loan for £1,500.00 in July 2010.  This loan was due to 
be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £53.60. This loan was repaid with some of the 
proceeds of loan 2 which  was provided in August 2010. A total of £1,500.00 was again  
advanced at this stage and once  again  this loan was due to be repaid in 78 weekly 
instalments of £53.60. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that V5 unfairly provided these 
loans to Mrs I as it ought to have  realised that they were unaffordable  for her. Mrs I 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
Preliminary matters
The matter  of whether  Mrs Is complaint was made in time was considered by an 
ombudsman a number  of months  ago. So I find V5s continued referral to this complaint 
being time-barred  to be particularly disappointing.  This is especially  as the jurisdiction  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is a matter for the ombudsman, not a respondent firm, to 
determine. 
It has already been explained to V5, in some detail, why it isnt the case  Mrs I ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware of her cause to complain more than three years before she 
did so. So I dont propose to repeat the reasons  for this here. However, V5 is now rather 
belatedly relying  on a complaints procedure information sheet, which  it could quite easily 
have referred to when  we considered the matter of jurisdiction and which it still hasnt  
provided to us despite having been repeatedly asked for the information it has relied upon 
for this complaint.  
For the sake of completeness and because I am now issuing a final decision, I have 
considered V5s comments.  V5 relies on this complaints procedure information sheet and 
whether Mrs I knew she could complain as if this is somehow interchangeable with when  
Mrs I ought reasonably to have known she had cause to complain. But these are different 
matters and even  where  a firm says it provided  a consumer with details of a complaints 
process, like V5 says it did here, this in itself wont start the three-year part of the time limit 
running for a complainant if it isnt the case that they ought  reasonably  to have known  they 
had cause to use it. 
Given what V5 has already been  told about whether  Mrs I ought reasonably to have been 
aware of her cause  to complain more than three years before she did so, I dont think the 
complaints procedure information sheet  it has referred to makes  any difference to whether 
Mrs I complained in time, or my ability to consider  this complaint. And Ive proceeded to 
consider whether Mrs Is complaint should be upheld.
My findings
Ref: DRN59995752Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending  -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when  deciding  Mrs Is complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Is complaint. These two
questions are:
1.Did V5 complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs I 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those  checks  have shown  that Mrs I wouldve been able to do 
so?
2.Did V5 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Did V5 complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs I would be 
able to repay her loans  in a sustainable  way?
V5 may, as it has said, have provided these loans prior to being authorised  and regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA). However,  the loans were  provided while  V5 held a 
standard licence  from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT), in order to carry out consumer 
credit activities. The rules  and regulations in place at the time required V5 to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs Is ability to make the repayments under 
these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so V5 had to think  about  whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs I. In practice this
meant that V5 had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mrs I undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for V5 to simply  think about  the likelihood  of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs I. Checks also had 
to be proportionate  to the specific circumstances  of the loan application. The fact that Mrs I 
loans were secured  on her car didnt  somehow  negate or dilute these obligations.
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
Ref: DRN59995753any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period);  and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were V5s checks reasonable and proportionate?
V5 has said that it completed an income and expenditure  assessment with Mrs I. Before 
arranging these loans.  It says it also carried out credit checks to work out what  Mrs Is 
existing credit commitments were as well requesting and receiving bank statements and 
wage slips from her too. 
So, even though V5 has been either unwilling or unable to provide the information it has 
referred to, bearing in mind it says it obtained a significant amount of information on Mrs Is
circumstances, Im prepared to accept that it did carry out proportionate checks   at least  in 
terms of the information  requested  before providing these loans  to Mrs I.
Did V5 make fair lending  decisions?
It isnt enough  for a lender  to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even  if a lender may have requested  a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards  that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because  a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced.  And any assessment requires  an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information  obtained.  V5 says its assessment of the 
information obtained led it to conclude that Mrs Is loan was affordable for her as shed be 
able to sustainably  make her repayments.
V5 was required to establish whether Mrs I could  sustainably  make her loan repayments  
not just whether the loan payments were  technically  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
V5 has now referred  to data protection legislation being the reason  behind  it not providing us 
with the documentation it obtained at the time. But it previously told us that it couldnt access  
the information because its office was closed as a result of the pandemic. I dont know  which 
Ref: DRN59995754of these is the case. That said, V5 has continually and consistently referred to having  been 
provided with Mrs Is wage slips and bank statements before providing her with these loans. 
So we asked  Mrs I to provide us with copies of this documentation  and shes been able to 
provide some of it to us. As this is information  V5 insists it obtained at the time, I consider it 
perfectly fair and reasonable to consider it in my determination of whether it V5 made fair 
lending decisions.
Ive carefully considered  the information.  Having done so, it is clear  Mrs I was already 
overstretched. Her income was being used to meet commitments to existing short-term and 
other high cost lenders. I can see repeated borrowing from at least  five short-term lenders 
and payments to another logbook loan provider in the period leading  up to these loans. So I 
think she was always unlikely to be able to make the payments she was being asked to 
commit to without borrowing further or suffering  significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not the information V5 says 
it obtained demonstrated that Mrs I wasnt in a position to take on any more debt and so V5s 
decisions to arrange  these loans werent fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Did V5 act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mrs I in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  And having done  so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that V5 acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs I in some  other way. So I 
dont think V5 acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs I in some other way.
Did Mrs I lose out as a result of V5 unfairly  providing her with this loan?
As Mrs I paid a high amount of interest and charges on loans  that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what V5 did wrong.
So I think that V5 needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  V5 needs  to do to put things right  for Mrs I.
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Is complaint for V5 to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs I paid as a result  of being provided  with 
these loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded  amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mrs I to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information, if any, still recorded on Mrs Is credit file as a 
result of this loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires V5 to take off tax from this interest.  V5 must give Mrs I a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
Ref: DRN59995755For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Is complaint. V5 Loans Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5999575