K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited (trading as Cashplus) failed  to 
credit an account he was sending money to, so he missed out on an investment  opportunity.  
And then it failed to return the money to him promptly, so he missed out on interest the 
money could have earned. Mr M is represented by Mr C in bringing this complaint.
background 
In November 2018 Mr M made a transfer to a third partys account with Cashplus. He 
intended to invest  the money in a new business  set up by Mr C. The money didnt get there, 
and Mr C complained.  Cashplus told Mr C in December  2018 that it was returning Mr Ms 
money, but Mr M didnt  receive his funds  until May 2019  almost six months later. Cashplus 
said the delay  was due to an error made by its service provider and took responsibility  for 
the error.  However,  it didnt offer Mr M compensation.  
Cashplus said Mr M isnt its customer and isnt eligible to bring  a complaint to this service.  
An ombudsman issued  a decision  about  what parts of this complaint we can look into. She 
said Mr M is eligible to bring a complaint about Cashplus failure to co-operate with his own 
banks efforts to recover the money he sent. He isnt able to ask us to consider a complaint 
about it failing to credit the account he sent money to. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said Mr M had 
provided evidence  that his bank  had contacted Cashplus to try to retrieve  Mr Ms money.  
Cashplus hadnt provided any evidence about  how it responded. It seemed most likely  it 
didnt co-operate with Mr Ms bank to recover the money. 
Our investigator recommended that Cashplus  pay compensation  of £350 to Mr M for his 
trouble and upset  and pay interest at 8% simple from 12 December 2018  (when  it initiated  
the return of the funds) to 31 May 2019  (when we received confirmation Mr M had received 
the funds into his account).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Cashplus accepted  responsibility for the error which delayed the funds being returned to 
Mr M. 
Cashplus hasnt provided the evidence our investigator requested  about  its contacts with 
Mr Ms bank. Mr M and Mr C say they contacted Mr Ms bank regularly asking about the 
payment and that the bank contacted Cashplus. They provided evidence to support this. In 
the circumstances, I find that Cashplus failed to co-operate  with Mr Ms bank to return the 
payment.
If Cashplus had co-operated  with Mr Ms bank, I think its likely the money  would have been  
returned sooner.  So I need to consider what compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN58817302Mr M had intended to invest in Mr Cs business.  Had the funds  been  returned to Mr M within  
a reasonable time scale he might still have done this. However, in mid May 2019 he told 
Mr C he was no longer prepared to invest,  due to the problems with the payment. I can 
understand Mr Ms frustration with the delays in the payment  being  returned. But I dont  think  
he was prevented from investing in Mr Cs business if he still wanted to do so  Mr C has 
confirmed that he would  have welcomed the investment.
Ive no doubt this caused Mr M trouble  and upset over about  six months.  There would have 
been costs involved  in contacting his bank and Mr C, as they were often in different 
countries. And Mr M was without use of the funds for about six months. I think  our 
investigators recommendation is fair and reasonable: that Cashplus pays  £350 to Mr M for 
his trouble and upset  and pays 8% simple interest*  on the payment  from 12 December 2018 
to 31 May 2019.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to deduct tax from this interest, it should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Advanced Payment  Solutions  Limited  to 
make the payments set out above  to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5881730