K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mrs L applied for her mortgage or PPI 
policy and when the sale of PPI took place. But Lloyds has assumed it was the start date of 
the mortgage (in 1983), which in the absence of anything else to indicate otherwise, is a 
reasonable assumption to make. Its also not clear  where Mrs L took out her policy. Mrs L 
suggests it was during  a meeting and Lloyds has said that it will assume the policy  was sold 
in branch (with advice given).  As this places  more responsibility on Lloyds for how it sold the 
policy, I think that is a fair approach. 
Although I dont have  a copy of the actual  policy  documentation relevant to Mrs Ls policy  
Lloyds have provided us with the nearest available terms and conditions. From my 
experience policy terms often did not change  very much between  policy  documents  and I 
am satisfied  on balance that these or similar  terms and conditions  would have applied to Mrs 
Ls policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  an amount  each month towards Mrs Ls 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  Lloyds  say it cost £2.25 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mrs L was employed  as an Industrial Overall Cleaner. She has told us she was 
entitled to some sick and redundancy pay from her employer  but didnt have any other  
means of repaying  her mortgage should she be unable  to work. Mrs L has said she suffered 
from a medical condition a number of years before the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003. 
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs L about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN58918952The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 1983 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after Lloyds says it sold Mrs L PPI. Prior  to this there  were  fewer requirements on a business 
when selling  insurance such as this. But Lloyds  doesnt appear to have  considered Mrs Ls 
complaint any differently   it seems to me they have considered  the sale of PPI against 
Ref: DRN58918953these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mrs L in a more  favourable  position, I have 
taken into account  the later industry  codes of practice in considering  what  I think  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN58918954Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the length of time since the sale, Lloyds havent been  able to provide copies of the 
actual documentation  that Mrs L wouldve seen at the time of sale.  But they say Mrs L 
wouldve had the option to accept  or decline the cover, and it wouldve only been added  to 
her account  with her consent. Ive considered carefully what Mrs L has said about feeling 
rushed and pressured. I cant  be sure what was said during the meeting.  I accept its 
possible the adviser may have said something  to make Mrs L think  she needed to take the 
policy. But I think its more likely that as the policy was recommended to her she was told it 
was something it would be good  to have to protect  her repayments (which  Mrs Ls complaint 
acknowledges)  rather  than she had to have it. Pressure can be very subjective   what  one 
person believes  is pressure may not be considered in that way by another.  Ive thought  
about what Mrs L has said, but Im also conscious that the sale took place a long time ago 
and memories can fade. Without  stronger  evidence Lloyds  said or did something to put 
pressure on Mrs L, I cant fairly uphold on this basis.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs L knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mrs L agree that advice  was provided during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs L. It seems Mrs L cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mrs Ls 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mrs L would  have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mrs L had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs L given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN58918955-I think its likely Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mrs Ls ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs L was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay benefits she says she would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs L. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs L has told us about a 
condition she had more than 20 years before taking out the policy and there  is 
nothing to suggest this was an ongoing condition,  so it doesnt appear to be caught 
by the policy  limitations  and exclusions   it wasnt wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended the policy. There were  also no additional  restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs L be disabled or unemployed 
for 60 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mrs Ls circumstances, including any employer  sickness and redundancy 
provisions she had (which she might expect to provide an income during the 
policys 60-day qualification  period) and the limits to those provisions, which 
mean the policy could  play an important role after those provisions  were  
exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs L be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
-Although Mrs L could no longer claim on the policy after she turned 65 (which  would 
have happened  during  the original mortgage term) this was some way off when the 
policy was sold and Mrs L was able to cancel the policy  at any time without penalty - 
so I dont this made the policy unsuitable  for her when it was sold.  
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs L would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN58918956But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mrs L all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent did Mrs L suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Ref: DRN58918957Mrs L would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Mrs L says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs L knew  she would  have to pay something 
for the policy, I cant say whether Lloyds told her the exact premium at the point Mrs L 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mrs L would have been  told the cost 
before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with Lloyds at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs L would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs L would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ls expectations  about  
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than she would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  condition, injury, illness or sickness  
that Mrs L knew about or for which she had consulted or been  treated by a doctor 
during the 12 months immediately before the start date of the policy  and which 
caused disability  during  the 24 months following  the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be totally 
unable to do the duties of her normal employment  including any similar gainful 
Ref: DRN58918958occupation which in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified for (in 
view of her training, education  and ability) and unable to do any other  work;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mrs L turned 65 (or in the case of the 
unemployment cover  when she retired from work or started to receive State 
retirement pension  - if one of these happened  first). 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Although Mrs L says she had a medical  condition when the PPI was taken, from what Mrs L 
has said it was something she suffered from and was treated  over 20 years  prior to taking 
the policy out. There is nothing to suggest  that this was an ongoing  condition   and nothing 
to indicate it was something that she had suffered with or that she had seen a doctor about 
in the 12 months  prior to the sale. I dont think it would have been  uppermost in Mrs Ls mind 
as the main reason she might be likely to have to take time off in the future. So, I dont think 
better information about this exclusion would have put her off agreeing  to it. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
normal employment including any similar  gainful occupation which  in the insurers view she 
might reasonably become qualified for (in view of her training, education and ability)  but also 
any other work, it might have played into her thinking about what she would have done. And 
I accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although given Mrs Ls circumstances, on 
balance, I still think she would have  been  interested in taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs L that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months is likely  to have been  a much longer period than Mrs L would have received full sick 
pay for and her statutory  redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12months  
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
Ref: DRN58918959the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Ls sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Mrs L has complained  that she reached  65 while the policy was in place - and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mrs L was 49 when she took out the PPI, so I 
think its more likely  than not shed have thought shed still get some value out of having the 
PPI, as it would  have covered her for a reasonable period of time before she turned 65 and 
she was free to cancel  it at any time without penalty. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs L was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
Ref: DRN589189510policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs L compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1983 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5891895