K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund payments under  the 
Direct Debit Guarantee  Scheme (DDGS).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 May 2019, setting out why I didnt 
uphold this complaint.  I invited  both parties  to make any further  submissions by 5 June 2019 
before I finalised matters. 
My provisional decision is attached. Santander  didnt have anything  further  to add. But Mr R 
did. He disagreed with my provisional decision. He said Santander told him he was 
guaranteed a refund when he spoke to them on either 21 March 2019 or 22 March 2019.
my findings
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R refers to specific  dates  of calls he had with the bank, so Santander provided these calls 
for me to listen to. In the calls on the 21 March, Mr R speaks  to a manager where Im 
satisfied he was made aware that the refund cannot be guaranteed  but the claim will be 
investigated within five working days. I note that Mr R called back again on 22 March when 
he spoke to a different  advisor. Mr R asked if the refund would be guaranteed. 
I accept the advisor  said yes. But the fact is Santander later paid Mr R £15 for incorrectly 
telling him the refund  would be guaranteed.  I think this is fair because Santander also made 
Mr R aware in the same call that no further payments would be refunded until evidence was 
provided of when the direct debit was cancelled.       
Taking everything into consideration, Ive no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision.  Given the circumstances here, I dont  think it was unreasonable 
for the bank to have asked for information  to support  Mr Rs claim  it hasnt rejected it - it 
has made further enquiries. And as I said before theres nothing in the DDGS that prohibits a 
bank from asking for further  information. Santander  is still willing  to consider his claim 
provided he can send  it the information. This seems  a perfectly fair way to resolve  the issue. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50336052complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund payments under  the 
Direct Debit Guarantee  Scheme (DDGS).
background
Mr R says he cancelled his direct debit relating to an insurance company in January  2018.  He says 
that his statements werent clear so he didnt realise  payments were  being  taken. Mr R says he made 
a claim under the DDGS but Santander refused to refund him for these payments.  
Santander says it had previously refunded Mr R on three occasions for this direct debit  and Mr R 
wanted to claim three further refunds. Santander says on each occasion Mr R had moved  the date of 
his direct debit cancellation.  It said that if Mr R can provide evidence to show when the direct  debit 
was cancelled, it would reconsider his claim.   
Mr R wasnt  happy with Santanders response so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened  and she thought it was reasonable for Santander to ask for 
information to satisfy  itself that a claim is genuine  in some circumstances. Mr R didnt agree with this 
and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case. He says that Santander guaranteed him a refund. 
He thinks the DDGS entitled  him to a full and immediate refund, so the case has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to not uphold  
Mr Rs complaint. I understand this will come  as a disappointment to Mr R but Ill explain my reasons 
why.
The role of this service is to consider if businesses have  treated  their customers in a fair and 
reasonable way.
The direct  debit guarantee  is there to protect customers if theres a genuine error  in the payment of a 
direct debit enabling them to reclaim payments where this has happened. But I dont think  this 
prevents a business from making enquiries into whether  an error has occurred.   
In this case, I think Santander acted fairly because it refunded previous payments quickly based 
on Mr Rs account of what  had happened.  But based on Mr R changing the cancellation  date on 
two occasions, I dont  think  Santanders request for information to support an error was 
unreasonable. And given that Mr R hasnt provided  evidence to support  his claim I dont think  hes 
been treated  unfairly  in not getting a further refund at this stage.  
Mr R says that Santander  told him that he was guaranteed a refund. Santander has provided  three 
calls relating to the direct  debit guarantee claim.  Ive listened to these but I cant see that it 
guaranteed a refund.  It does  say that a claim will be raised to look to get the money  back. I can 
appreciate there  may have been other calls where  Mr R may have thought Santander had 
guaranteed him a refund  but as Ive already said the direct debit guarantee scheme doesnt prohibit 
the bank from asking for information. And if Mr R can now provide evidence of when he cancelled 
his direct debit Santander  is willing to reconsider his claim  - I think that is a fair way to resolve this 
issue.
So based on everything Ive seen, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong in the way it dealt 
with Mr Rs direct  debit  guarantee claim.
Ref: DRN50336053my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not intend to uphold  Mr Rs complaint against 
Santander UK Plc for the reasons I have outlined above.
Ref: DRN5033605