K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr J bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store card.
 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mr J aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
I say this because  although FICL have sent us a copy of what they say is Mr Js store  
card and PPI application  form,  its very poor quality and not legible. Ive not relied on it 
when coming to my decision.
Mr J has complained that he took out the store  card as a discount was being  offered in 
store. He says that no discussion took place  about  PPI and he didnt know  hed taken  it 
out. Mr J says when he realised he was paying for PPI a few months later when it 
appeared on his statements he cancelled it. 
I havent seen  evidence to support what Mr J has said. I say this because it seems  that 
the PPI wasnt cancelled until 2002, 8 years after the account and PPI were  taken out. 
As Mr J has acknowledged, the PPI premiums appeared on his statements. So I think 
that he would reasonably  have questioned  the PPI much sooner than he did if it had 
been added  without his knowledge.  FICL  have also told us - but Ive not seen 
supporting evidence, that some documents including the policy  terms would have been 
sent to Mr J following  the sale. If Mr J did receive these documents,  again I think it 
would have made him reasonably aware that hed taken  PPI. But I cant safely say if   
Mr J received any such documents.  
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr J doesnt appear  to have  been  affected by any of the main 
Ref: DRN57387122things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Js comments,  including what  hes said about  not needing PPI 
because of his wifes  income. But circumstances can change and although Mr Js wife may 
have wanted to help him make his repayments  if he was unwell and unable  to work or if he 
was made  unemployed, she may not have been  in a position  to help when needed. 
Ive also considered Mr Js other  means  including his sick pay entitlement, but after six 
months Mr Js sick pay would have decreased to half pay. This policy could  have paid out for 
longer than Mr J received  full sick pay. This also would have allowed Mr J the option of using 
his sick pay to help pay for other living expenses that he may have had. 
Ive also noted  that Mr J has said that he didnt  make a claim for unemployment when he 
was made  unemployed. If Mr J had this policy at the time he was made  unemployed he has 
the option of speaking to FICL about  the possibility  of making  a back dated claim.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5738712