K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reported arrears to the credit reference agencies  
in relation to a personal loan. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 15 January 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt think  Mrs Bs complaint should 
be upheld. I invited both parties to provide  any additional comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
After the investigator  contacted Mrs B to check shed  received our provisional decision 
another copy was emailed  on 21 January  2020.  We havent received any further comment  
from Mrs B. HSBC  responded to confirm receipt  of the provisional decision but made  no 
comments. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B didnt respond and HSBC hasnt provided  any new information I see no reason to 
change the conclusions reached in my provisional decision dated  15 January 2020. I remain  
of the view that HSBC  dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN52158892Copy Provisional Decision  dated 15 January 2020
Complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reported arrears to the credit reference agencies in relation 
to a personal loan. 
Background
Mrs B took out a loan in 2013 with HSBC but in 2016 her personal circumstances changed  and she 
wasnt able to continue working.  Mrs B spoke with HSBC in November 2016 and discussed her 
payments and explained she was looking for work. As Mrs B had no income at the time a payment 
plan wasnt possible.  HSBC wrote to Mrs B on 17 November 2016 and said it wouldnt contact  her 
about the loan for two months in order  to provide  some support. 
Mrs B spoke with HSBC  again on 12 January 2017 and explained that she was still looking for work. 
HSBC wrote to Mrs B again on 16 January 2017 and said it would put collections activity on hold for 
another two months.  
On 8 March 2017 Mrs B asked HSBC to discuss her loan with Mr B, her husband. Mrs B had found  a 
new job and wanted to make arrangements to start payments again. During the call HSBC  completed 
a budget  planner to check what payments were  affordable. But the budget  planner showed  that Mrs B 
couldnt afford  to make her full repayments or pay off the arrears. 
HSBC set up an arrangement  for £138  a month and said Mr B was able to make manual  payments 
into her account to help with the repayments as well. 
In May 2017  HSBC sent Mrs B a formal demand. Mrs Bs payments increased  and over the following 
months the arrears and loan balance were repaid. The loan was fully repaid by the end of its original 
term, in October 2017.  
Mrs B later complained as she found  HSBC had recorded arrears with the credit reference agencies. 
HSBC didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint  and said the arrears information accurately reflected how her 
account had been handled.  Mrs B referred her complaint to our service  and it was passed to an 
adjudicator. 
The adjudicator upheld Mrs Bs complaint as she didnt  feel HSBC  had done enough to tell her about 
the impact of the missed payments on her credit file when  she called to discuss her options in 
November 2016. HSBC didnt agree and asked to appeal so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B but, having done  so, Ive reached 
a different decision to the adjudicator. Based  on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded  that this 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs B says she wasnt made aware  of the impact of the missed payments on her credit file when she 
spoke with HSBC and that its letters didnt make  it clear. Unfortunately, we dont have a call recording 
from November 2016 but I have seen contact notes. The contact notes say that Mrs B called  HSBC  
and explained she wasnt working and couldnt make her monthly payments. Mrs B said she had no 
income which meant there was no benefit  to completing an income and expenditure  assessment. In 
order to provide some  breathing space,  HSBC  wrote to Mrs B and confirmed no payment 
arrangement was in place but that it wouldnt contact  her for two months. The evidence Ive seen is 
clear in showing that Mrs Bs income  stopped which meant she wasnt able to afford her monthly 
payments. 
Ref: DRN52158893HSBCs call notes say that the collections  process was explained to Mrs B during her call on 15 
November 2016. And I think its reasonable  to take into account that HSBCs collections staff would  
be very aware of the impact  of missed payments  and payment arrangements  on borrowers credit 
files. Mrs B says that she wasnt told about the impact of the missed payments, but I think its more 
likely than not that HSBC did tell Mrs B that whilst it wouldnt  contact her about the missed  payments 
they would be reported  to the credit  reference agencies. 
Even if I were  to accept  that HSBC  didnt talk about Mrs Bs credit  file in November 2016 Id still have 
to consider what she would have done  differently  if that information had been provided. Mrs B told 
HSBC she had no income and no options to make repayments.  So it appears that the loan would 
always have gone into arrears, regardless of the information about  credit files provided by HSBC in 
November 2016 and during  subsequent  conversations.  HSBCs loan terms allow it to report 
information about the loan payments to the credit reference agencies so I cant say its acted unfairly 
by doing so. From what Ive seen, I think its been  established that Mrs B was experiencing  financial 
difficulties and wasnt  able to maintain  the loan. The information reported  to the credit reference 
agencies accurately  reflects that situation.  
I have been able to listen to calls from 8 March 2017 and 5 June 2017. During  both these  calls Mrs 
Bs credit file and the loan arrears are discussed. I appreciate the call recordings dont go back  to 
November 2016 but the calls I have listened to show HSBC explained the information it reports on 
customers credit  files correctly. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I havent found grounds to uphold her complaint. I understand 
she wants to apply for a mortgage and is concerned about the impact of the arrears. But HSBC is 
obliged to report accurate  information about the loan payments to the credit reference agencies. Ive 
looked at all the available  evidence and I think its more likely than not that HSBC  did tell Mrs B that 
her missed payments  would be reported as arrears throughout  the process. 
As Ive said above, Mrs Bs options appear to have been very limited at the time and she wasnt able 
to afford the loan payments. Im satisfied the arrears information reflects that. As I think  HSBC has 
dealt with Mrs Bs complaint  fairly I dont intend to tell it to take any further action.  
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. 
Mrs B and HSBC have until 29 January 2020  to send me any additional comments or information they 
would like me to consider  before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5215889