K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr D says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2001 when 
purchasing goods in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr D that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the loan agreement.  Mr D says he was not made aware  that the cover 
was optional and it was added to the account  without  his knowledge or consent. But FICL 
has said it made the optional nature of the policy clear.  Ive been given a copy of the credit 
agreement completed  at the time and I can see that this includes a section about PPI. In this 
section there  is a box to sign if you want to take out the PPI and Mr D has signed in this 
section. And I can see that Mr D signed  the overall agreement which suggests it reflected 
what he wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL made it clear the policy  was optional and Mr D 
chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
Mr D doesnt recall  how the policy was sold to him, which isnt surprising given how long ago 
this sale took place. FICL says it didnt recommend the policy  to Mr D. And from looking at 
the paperwork supplied,  I think thats  likely  to be right. So FICL didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for him. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave Mr D clear enough 
information about the policy to enable him to decide for himself if he should take the policy.
When looking at the credit agreement I can see that this clearly sets out the monthly cost of 
the policy. And I think he would  have  understood the PPI would cover his loan repayments in 
the event of a claim.  But its possible that not all the information FICL  gave  Mr D about  the 
PPI was as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN55800422So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Mr D has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5580042