K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) turned down the claim he 
made under a group income protection policy. 
background
Mr K was a member of his employers group income  protection policy.
In mid-2016, Mr K stopped work  and subsequently  submitted  a claim to L&G citing work-
related stress. L&G paid the claim up until late-May 2017 after Mr K returned to work. But 
Mr Ks symptoms  returned, he stopped working  again in mid-June 2017 and submitted a 
new claim. L&G turned down this claim because it said Mr Ks absence  was due to work-
related issues rather than a medical condition. Mr K disagreed and brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ks mental  health  problems were  entirely work-related. He 
thought they were a recurrence of the problems Mr K had suffered before and L&G had been  
satisfied that condition met the incapacity definition. So he recommended that L&G should 
pay the claim. L&G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide if L&G fairly declined Mr Ks second claim. With that in mind,  the policy 
terms and conditions explain  a claim will be paid after a waiting period of 26 weeks, if the 
member is unable to perform the essential  duties of their normal  occupation  due to illness  or 
injury. And a claim will be paid immediately if the member  returns to work  but, within a period 
of 52 weeks, is subsequently  unable to work from the same  cause.
When Mr K submitted his first claim he noted  that he was absent from work due to stress 
relating to his work. He also said his symptoms  included  anxiety,  stress,  insomnia, 
nervousness and nausea.  And that he spent most of his time at home and felt nervous about  
work and going  out. 
One of L&Gs rehabilitation  specialist assessed Mr K and recorded  that although the initial 
absence was due to work-related stress he now has symptoms  of anxiety and depression 
and may benefit  from therapy. Mr K started  cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) in 
November 2016  and L&G accepted his claim in January 2017 saying the definition of 
incapacity has been met. So it seems clear  that the original  claim was accepted given  the 
entirety of Mr Ks symptoms and despite  some  work-based  concerns being a contributory  
factor. 
I mention the above because I think its wholly relevant to Mr Ks second claim. L&G has 
noted that when he submitted that claim he again said he was suffering with work-related 
stress and most of the subsequent reports talk about his work-based concerns. With that in 
mind, I accept  the possibility the issue at work contributed to Mr Ks mental health problems, 
but the symptoms  he also described were much the same as when he made  the first claim. 
And it was accepted then that although a situation  at work may have been  the main  trigger,  
Mr Ks symptoms  had subsequently escalated and his anxiety and depression  were  affecting 
Ref: DRN59157212his home  life and ability  to perform daily tasks. Thats why the original claim seems to have 
been accepted. 
Ive also had regard  to the following:
Mr K underwent CBT therapy while off work the first time which seems to have helped  to 
an extent. But the CBT discharge report written  by his psychologist  noted his physical  
recovery from his first shoulder surgery had a negative impact on his ability to continue  
using the techniques  hed been  taught to lift his mood and reduce anxiety. And the pain 
related to his physical  recovery was affecting his sleep patterns. The psychologist also 
noted specifically  that Mr K had remaining symptoms of depression. And his scores for 
the Work and Social Adjustment Scale, PHQ-9 and GAD-7,  while  showing an 
improvement since CBT started, still suggested  moderate/severe impairment and 
moderate depression and anxiety.  
The occupational  health report from end-April 2017 noted that Mr Ks mood had dropped 
in the past few weeks, possibly  due to not having structure and purpose of work. He 
planned to return  to work on 8 May and was fit to work. But the occupational  health 
advisor advised him to see his GP again if his mood didnt improve with his return to 
work. 
Mr K returned to work  for just five weeks and his second period of absence started in 
mid-June. He was referred to occupational  health and saw them later that month. The 
related report suggests Mr K hadnt experienced a positive  return to work and he felt the 
cause of his stress was work-related.  But the symptoms reported were  similar  to this 
experience during  his first period of absence   low mood, high anxiety levels, not 
sleeping well, low energy levels, poor concentration and motivation  along  with high 
scores on anxiety  and depression assessment  tools. Mr K was noted as being not fit for 
work due to ongoing symptoms.
The occupational  heath report from early-August  said that, following a psychological 
assessment, Mr Ks symptoms appeared consistent with moderate/severe depression  
and anxiety. And although hed started counselling again  he wasnt yet fit for work.  The 
report recommended  Mr Ks work grievance  be resolved promptly because  the related 
delays were causing Mr Ks symptoms  to be exacerbated. That suggests to me that the 
problem at work may again have been a contributory factor  affecting Mr Ks mental 
health but not the sole cause. And Mr K has repeatedly  denied  saying his symptoms  
were entirely work-related. Despite what L&G has said,  I dont think this report suggests  
that Mr Ks mental health problems were wholly  situational and would  go away  if the 
issue at work was resolved.
During the second period of absence Mr K sought further  counselling and started taking 
anti-depressants in a seemingly proactive attempt to improve  his mental health. 
I do understand this case has been complicated  by the fact Mr K had some  work-based 
issues. And the ongoing grievance might have  been  a trigger  for his illness  when he tried to 
return to work after the first period of absence. But, having considered all the evidence I 
think its supportive of the fact Mr K had an underlying mental health condition and that 
condition/illness was what ultimately  prevented him from working. And Im satisfied  work-
place issues were only a contributing  factor   which I cant  see the policy excludes. 
In the circumstances I think L&G should  have  paid Mr Ks claim.
Ref: DRN59157213my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited
to accept Mr Ks claim relating to his second period of absence and pay benefit  in 
accordance with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions.  Interest should be added  to the 
benefit payments  at the annual simple  rate of 8%, calculated from the date each payment 
was due to the date of settlement.* 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
*If L&G considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr K how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5915721