K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss H bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a secured loan. She applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 216-month term (18-years). The monthly  loan repayment 
was £76.22 with the PPI costing an additional  £7.97 making the total monthly repayment 
£84.13. The policy didnt attract interest and could be cancelled  by either party  with 30 days  
notice without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss H for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Miss Hs monthly loan repayment for up 
to 60 months in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Miss H was employed as a civil servant. She has told us she was entitled to 
between six and twelve months of sick pay, three  months redundancy pay and death  in 
service benefit of two times her salary.  She didnt have any other means of repaying their 
loan should she be unable to work, such as savings. Miss H has said she was in good 
health. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2003.  
Miss Hs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Hs representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Miss H wouldnt  
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Miss H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss H and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN55763632Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint
This sale took place  in 2001, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN55763633The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI code 
and these other publications  into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Miss Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Miss H with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Miss H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information 
to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN55763634Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss H and 
Bank of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Miss H know  she had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The loan agreement  made it clear the PPI was optional, as it asked, Do you want Personal 
Loan Repayments Insurance? and presented a yes or a no option. It also showed how 
much it would cost. A pre-printed cross was in the yes box. Given  the sale took place in 
store its likely this followed a discussion of the PPI. Before she signed  the agreement, Miss 
H couldve queried this if it did not match what was said during the conversation. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss H knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Bank of Scotland says it did provide advice during this sale.  This means  Bank of Scotland  
had to advise  Miss H with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss H. It seems Miss H cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Miss Hs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss H would  have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Bank  of Scotland  considered whether Miss H had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss H given her circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Miss H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Miss H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss H had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Hs ability to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy and sick pay 
benefits she says she would have been  entitled to.
Ref: DRN55763635-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss H. There  
was nothing about Miss Hs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Miss H 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable her to understand 
what Bank of Scotland was recommending to her and make an informed decision about  
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss H was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability). I have reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Miss H would have taken out the policy  without any sense of 
what the policy was for. The loan agreement  clearly showed the monthly  cost of the PPI.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Miss H agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss H Im not persuaded Bank  of 
Scotland did enough to present information  about  the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Miss H. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  gave Miss H all 
of the information she needed  about the policy to make an informed decision about  whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Hs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
Ref: DRN55763636think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Bank  of Scotland  ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Bank of Scotlands  shortcomings have  on Miss  H? To what extent did 
Miss H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  
to Miss H. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Miss H suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide  
whether or not Miss H would have still taken out the policy, had Bank of Scotland done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Miss H, I have  found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained things 
properly, Miss H would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss H says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Bank of Scotland  advised  her that there  was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Miss H was given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland made clear  exactly what  Miss H would get 
back in return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely that Miss Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her loan repayment)  were  significantly different  to what  the policy  actually did.
Ref: DRN55763637Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Miss H knew about or should  have known about at the start date, or for which 
shed received advice, treatment or counselling  from any doctor during the 12 months 
before the start date and which recurred within 24 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss H be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss H from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss H 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss H from taking out the policy, Miss H, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss H had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Miss Hs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss H would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss H 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN55763638Miss Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss H would not have bought  the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss H 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Miss H compensation, as that 
would put her in a better position  than she would have been in if everything  had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Hs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Bank of Scotland  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to put Miss H in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN55763639my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5576363