K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) 
dealt with her home insurance claim.
background
Ms C had a home insurance policy with Ocaso.  She made two separate escape of water  
claims  one following  a leak from the flat upstairs, which  caused  damage to a number of 
rooms in her home, and the second  following a pipe leak in her kitchen. The first leak was in 
June 2017, and the second one in January 2018.
Repairs relating  to the first leak hadnt  started by the time the second leak occurred, mostly 
because of issues with the property above.  However, the damage caused by the second 
leak meant Ms C had to move into alternative  accommodation.
The repair process  took longer to complete than had been expected, and Ms C only returned 
to her home towards the end of July 2018.  Ms C had already  complained to the business by 
this date about the delays, and poor communication shed experienced. Ocaso agreed there 
had been poor communication  and offered Ms C £100 compensation for this.
Ms C wasnt  happy with this and brought her complaint to us. In particular, she complained  
of the poor communication with Ocaso  and their contractors, that shed been out of her 
home for too long with no definite  date for return,  and that her alternative  accommodation  
payments had been paid late and required continual chasing by her.
Our investigator upheld  Ms Cs complaint. He agreed the customer service shed received 
had been poor. He said Ocaso should complete any snagging works that remained 
outstanding and pay Ms C £300  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the various service  failings shed experienced.
Ocaso didnt respond  to this, but Ms C didnt agree, saying she thought compensation of 
£600 to £700 would  be fairer. She also said she was still waiting for her final accommodation 
payment of £1,200, plus more money  to pay for the electricity Ocaso used  whilst  repairing 
her home. So, her case was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Ms Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
But first, I need to acknowledge that repairs were needed in relation to two separate  leaks,  
which were dealt with under  two separate claims. Ms Cs complaint was raised after shed 
made her second claim, but I think some of the matters  complained  about - particularly 
communication issues with Ocaso, apply to both claims. And repairs  for both claims were 
done at the same time,  by the same contractor.  Ocaso considered Ms Cs complaint as 
though it was made in relation to the second claim, as did our investigator. I think  this is the 
practical way to approach Ms Cs complaint, rather than to split the issues into two 
complaints, one for each claim. So, Ill also look at how Ms C has been treated as a whole 
during both claims she made.
Ref: DRN54128222Ill begin by looking  at the length of time the repairs took. Ms C was required to live in 
alternative accommodation for over six months  she says this caused her a lot of stress and 
upset. Whilst I accept  repairs  were  required in most of the rooms  in Ms Cs home, I havent 
seen anything that justifies them having  taken that long. Ocaso say some of the delay was 
due to the second claim extending the repair  period, as extra  drying was needed. I accept 
that damage caused by two separate leaks will take longer to dry out. But the drying process 
still hadnt been finished by May 2018,  four months after the second claim.  I havent seen 
anything within Ocasos file that justifies this delay.
I can see discussions Ms C had with Ocaso about choosing  and contributing to an upgraded 
kitchen worksurface added extra  time to the repair process. But even here,  Ocasos  notes 
suggest there were  periods of inactivity  on their part during these discussions which  delayed  
progress. I havent  seen anything within Ocasos notes to explain or justify why the repair 
process took as long as it did.
Turning to the issue of poor communication Ocaso  agree they, and their contractors, didnt 
provide Ms C with enough, or timely  information  throughout the claim process. I agree.  
Having reviewed Ocasos claim  notes, its clear Ms C had to make repeated  calls to try and 
get information about the timeframe for the repairs,  and also to chase  up the alternative 
accommodation payments she was entitled to. I think its clear Ms C was inconvenienced 
quite considerably in this regard.
Which brings me to the issue of Ms Cs alternative  accommodation payments. Dealing with 
the timing of these payments first, Ocaso have provided details of when these payments 
were made. Four payments were made in total.  Two of these appear to have been paid on 
time, by which I mean a few days after the date they were due (monthly  in arrears). But the 
first payment  appears over one month late, and the final one  covering the period from May 
2018 onwards,  was only made at the end of July 2018. So, there were  periods  when  Ocaso 
didnt reimburse Ms C for her alternative accommodation costs in a reasonable time. I think 
this was likely to have  caused Ms C unnecessary  inconvenience.
Ms C also says Ocaso didnt pay her for her final months accommodation. I asked Ms C if 
she has any evidence to show she wasnt paid this, but due to the passage of time she no 
longer has this. It appears Ms C was away from her property for between  six and seven  
months. I can see Ocaso paid Ms C £1,000  per month in accommodation payments, and 
even allowing for the above-mentioned delays, I can see payments  totalling £6,400  were  
made to her  so appearing to cover a period  between six and seven  months, the length of 
time Ms C was out of her home. So, taken together, I havent  seen  enough evidence  to fairly 
say Ocaso needs to pay any further  money to Ms C for her accommodation expenses.
The same applies to Ms Cs belief shes entitled to more  money  to cover the cost of the 
electricity Ocasos  contractors used during the drying and repair process.  Ms C isnt able to 
provide a copy of a utility bill to show the cost of any electricity used in the period.  Ocasos 
file notes suggest they asked Ms C to provide a copy  of a bill at the time in question for their 
consideration, but I cant see this was provided.  Im aware Ocaso have already paid 
approximately £65 to Ms C to cover  this expense, and in the absence  of proof that the sum 
should be higher,  I cant fairly say Ocaso  needs to pay any further money to Ms C for any 
electricity costs she incurred at the time.
To conclude,  I think its clear Ms C suffered  considerable inconvenience  and upset as a 
result of the way her claim  with Ocaso was progressed. Im satisfied the repairs  took longer 
than reasonably needed, causing Ms C the inconvenience and upset of having to live away 
Ref: DRN54128223from her home for longer  than she needed  to. And that her upset  was increased by having  to 
repeatedly chase Ocaso and their contractors for progress and information,  and payment  of 
the accommodation allowance she was entitled to.
Taken together, I think  its clear Ms C experienced considerable inconvenience and upset as 
a result of these service  failings, which justifies Ocaso paying compensation to her. Ocaso 
had offered to pay £100, but Ms C wanted £600 to £700. Our investigator said £300 was a 
fair reflection of the inconvenience experienced. Placing a value on upset  and inconvenience  
isnt an exact  exercise as each case is different. But in this case, I agree with our 
investigator and think  £300 provides a fair reflection of the upset and inconvenience  Ms C 
experienced during her claim process.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint, and require Ocaso SA, Compania  de 
Seguros y Reaseguros  to pay Ms C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her during her claim process.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5412822