K821x#15complaint
Mr K is bringing this complaint as a representative of a small business W. Ws complaint 
arises from a legal  expenses insurance policy  with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
background
W wanted to take legal action against a former tenant and guarantor.  W appointed solicitors 
to act on its behalf and they arranged an after-the-event legal expenses insurance policy 
with Great  Lakes in 2011. The policy was to cover  disbursements incurred on his behalf (e.g. 
expenses such as court fees and medical reports) and any costs W was ordered  to pay to 
the other side, but not its own legal costs.  W had entered into a separate  conditional fee 
arrangement (CFA) with its solicitors in respect  of their fees.
The premium is not calculated and is deferred until the end of the proceedings. 
W received a judgment in its favour  and was awarded a significant  sum together with its 
legal costs in July 2013. Despite pursuing  enforcement proceedings, W has been unable  to 
get the defendants to satisfy the judgement. I understand  that two of the defendants are now  
bankrupt and the other is in debt. A charging  order has however,  been placed on the third 
defendants property (which is in negative  equity). 
There was no communication between  Great  Lakes  and W until 2017, when it sent W a 
demand for payment of the premium, which it had calculated as being over £67,000  with 
interest.
W has disputed that it is responsible for paying  the premium. It says it had to pay its own 
solicitors costs under the terms of the CFA, as it was successful as far as the CFA was 
concerned. It has not received any money and it would have been better off if it had lost at 
court, as it would not have had to pay the solicitors costs and the policy would have covered 
its own disbursements and the other  sides  costs.  It has supposedly  won but is considerably  
out of pocket.
 
W also says that the policy was mis-sold, as it would never have bought it if itd known it 
might have to pay the premium, in the event  that it didnt actually receive  any settlement.
W settled the fees  all fees and disbursements with the solicitors  the premium should  
have been included in that as the solicitors  were acting as the agent  of Great Lakes. W also 
says that Great Lakes has been  needlessly  heavy handed in its pursuit  of the premium; and 
that it has not been calculated and worked  out properly.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She recommended that the complaint be 
upheld as she didnt  think that the premium was payable. She says the policy is clear 
enough that the premium is payable if the insured  is successful in the proceedings but she 
didnt think that W had been successful, as it had not been able to recover  any monies from 
the other party and was not therefore entitled  to any monies.  
Great Lakes doesnt  accept the adjudicators assessment and so the matter has been 
referred to me. Ive summarised  Great Lakess submissions, made in response to the 
adjudicators assessment,  below: 
Ref: DRN59341362The adjudicator  hasnt addressed the allegations that the Policy was mis-sold;  that it 
has been unnecessarily  heavy handed in chasing  the premium;  and about the 
calculation of the premium. 
Instead the adjudicator has concluded that it is not entitled  to the premium, which 
wasnt ever part of the complaint. Even  W didnt dispute that it was entitled to the 
premium.  
The adjudicators  findings are wrong  in law, because  it attempts to imply terms that 
neither exist nor are necessary for the operation of the contract. 
W had a duty to read the policy in full and the policy sets out clearly that the premium 
would be due and payable if its case succeeds,  even if it could not recover  the 
premium from the other  party.
The wording and mechanism of the policy is clear: page 4 confirms the method of 
calculation the Premium, and goes on to say: "The Premium becomes payable when 
the outcome of the Legal Proceedings is a Success." Success is defined in the Policy  
as: "Legal Proceedings will be deemed  Successful if the Insured  is offered or obtains 
at any time a net entitlement  to money  and/or  damages and / or costs which,  taking 
into account any counter- or crossclaim in the Legal Proceedings, equals or exceeds 
the definition of Success as shown in the Schedule." 
Success in the policy schedule  is defined  as: The Legal Proceedings are decided  in 
favour of the Insured  whether by a Court decision or..."
The adjudicator  said that the policy schedule gives a separate definition  for 
'Success'. That is not how the policy is to be read. The terms of the Policy, including  
the definition of success, are standard terms. Success', in the context of the policy 
schedule, is the mechanism by which a particular case  will be deemed Successful.
That success was achieved in July 2013 when judgment was handed down in W's 
favour, resulting  in a net entitlement to damages  and costs.
The adjudicator  said that W did not end up with a net entitlement to damages in its 
favour because it was unable to enforce  its judgment against the defendants. That is 
simply wrong as a matter of fact and law. Judgment was handed  down, ordering 
damages and costs to W. This created an unequivocal entitlement  to payment of 
those sums.
Great Lakes has not insured the risks associated  with recovery and enforcement.  
The policy has been deliberately drafted to avoid circumstances where  a party  has 
litigated with the benefit of cover, then attempts to avoid  paying a premium  because it 
is unable (or unwilling)  to enforce  a judgment  in its favour.  The policy  provides  that 
the premium is payable when an entitlement to damages arises, as is the case here.
The adjudicator  has misunderstood the term 'entitlement', which means  a right to or 
receive something. It does not require  the actual delivery of that right. An entitlement  
to damages is not the same as the receipt of damages, as the adjudicator appeared 
to have accepted in her earlier finding  that she was: "satisfied that the policy 
documentation did explain when the premium was due and that if W was unable to 
recover this from the defendants  that they would still have to pay it."
The ability to enforce has no bearing on the entitlement  to the premium. W was 
entitled to enforce  further to the judgment obtained  in its favour. It is unfortunate that 
it has been unable  to do so. It was incumbent on W to conduct  adequate due 
diligence on its opponent prior to commencement of litigation.
Great Lakes'  entitlement to the premium, pursuant to the terms of the policy,  is clear. 
The effect of the preliminary finding  is to vary the insurance  contract in order to 
address what the adjudicator perceived to be an injustice against  W. And it does not 
address the complaints that have actually been  made and so goes beyond the 
jurisdiction and falls outside the powers of this service. 
Ref: DRN59341363In eleven years (of its policies containing this wording) no one has ever interpreted  it 
in the way the adjudicator has.
preliminary issues
We have jurisdiction to consider complaints  from eligible  complainants, defined as including 
or microenterprises. To qualify as a microenterprise, there are certain criteria about the 
number of employees, and its worth  and turnover. W has provided evidence which has 
satisfied me that W is a microenterprise, in accordance with the regulations, and that we 
therefore have  jurisdiction to consider the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is clear  from Ws correspondence and complaint that it has consistently disputed  
that the premium  is payable. Its initial complaint  in response to the demand for payment says 
it had not heard from Great  Lakes for over three  years and thought  the premium was not 
payable, given that it had not received the award made in its favour. W states  it didnt know  
the premium would be payable, even if it did not recover  any monies from the other  party. 
Ws representatives framed this as a mis-sale complaint, on the basis  that the terms relied 
on by Great  Lakes werent made sufficiently clear to it at the outset. However, this does not 
preclude me from also considering whether the terms  are fair and reasonable and/or 
whether they are fairly  applied  in the particular circumstances of this case. The essence of 
the complaint  is that the premium should not be paid. We are an informal  alternative  to the 
courts and have  an inquisitorial remit, so it is not a requirement that complaints be formally 
pleaded and we do not necessarily rely solely on the submissions made to us. And my remit 
- to determine complaints in accordance with what I consider  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances - means it would be inequitable not to take into account evidence  of which we 
are aware that would be relevant to the outcome of a complaint brought  to us.
The policy provides that the premium is payable if the insured is successful in the court 
proceedings covered. The policy also states:   
The outcome of the Legal Proceedings will fall into one of the three categories described  
below.
Successful
Legal Proceedings will be deemed Successful if the Insured  is offered  or obtains at any time 
a net entitlement to money  and/ or damages and/or costs which,  taking into account  any 
counter- or cross-claim in the Legal  Proceedings, equals or exceeds the definition of 
Success as shown in the Schedule.
Partially Successful
If, following  a Rejected Offer to Settle, the Insured subsequently obtains at trial or by 
settlement or by further offer or by subsequent acceptance of the Rejected  Offer, a net 
entitlement to money or damages or other  relief  sought and a costs order or other  
entitlement to costs,  not being an interim  costs  order, in the Insured's favour in respect of 
part of the Legal Proceedings,  the part of the Legal  Proceedings to which  the costs order
or other entitlement  to costs relates will be deemed  Successful.
Ref: DRN59341364If the Opponent has been awarded a costs  order or other entitlement  to costs,  not being an 
Interim order, in respect of another part of the Legal  Proceedings, as a result  of the same 
Rejected Offer, the part of the Legal Proceedings to which that costs  order  or other  
entitlement to costs  relates will be deemed  Unsuccessful.
Unsuccessful
In addition to a failure of the Legal  Proceedings  to be Successful as defined above, Legal  
Proceedings will also be deemed Unsuccessful if:
a) the Insured achieves a Successful  outcome  (as above) at trial and is required  by Us to 
defend an appeal which results in a net entitlement to money,  damages  and costs which  is 
lower than the definition of Success  shown on the Schedule; or
b) following a Rejected  Offer to Settle, the Insured subsequently fails to obtain at trial or by 
settlement or by further offer or by subsequent acceptance of the Rejected  Offer a net 
entitlement to money or damages or other  relief  sought which equals the value of the 
Rejected Offer to Settle and does not obtain  an order  for costs,  other than an interim costs 
order in its favour.
The policy schedule gives the following definition  of success:
The Legal Proceedings are decided  in favour  of the Insured whether  by a Court
decision or concession  by the Opponent  or where  an offer is received  which  the
Solicitor, Counsel or We recommend should be accepted or any other offer is
accepted.
Later in the policy there is a list of conditions  which apply  to the cover,  which includes the 
following: 
 
Conditions 
the premium is payable by the insured even if the opponent  delays or defaults in settling any 
judgement or agreed settlement. 
So the policy  schedule  definition of success is that there must be a favourable court  decision 
or an offer of settlement  that is accepted, but the policy also requires  the insured to be 
offered or obtain a net entitlement to money  which equals or exceeds that in the definition 
of success. Great Lakes says that this means  that any money award  made by the court (or 
settlement offer which  involves a payment to the insured) would therefore  be considered a 
success and trigger payment of the premium. Great Lakes says the policy is perfectly  clear  
about this.  
I disagree. I dont consider that the policy terms relating to the premium  are clear and 
unambiguous. The terms, as set out above  are far from clear in my opinion.  If this is what 
was intended,  then it would have been a simple matter for Great Lakes to state that success 
is obtaining an order from the court or settlement offer of a money  award. Instead there are 
two parts  to the definition of success and if it simply was the award of damages  or other  
money award, then the two parts would not be required. While  I agree that entitlement  to 
would not necessarily mean delivery of, the way the parts of the policy  have been worded,   
does suggest,  as the adjudicator has said that entitlement to the money would need to be 
payment of it. 
I also note the general policy condition that the premium is still payable  even  if the other 
party defaults or delays in settling,  but it is not found in this section of the policy.  I also note 
Ref: DRN59341365the policy says that if the insured receives interest  on the costs from the other party,  he 
agrees to pay the part of interest  attributable to the premium to Great  Lakes.  
This would therefore  suggest a scenario where there  is a delay in settlement of any court 
order in favour of the insured and the premium is not paid until it is recovered. This therefore  
adds to the lack of clarity about when the premium  might be properly payable. Incidentally,  
this appears to be the only reference to any entitlement  to interest  on the premium under the 
policy.
I therefore agree with the adjudicator that if Great Lakes had intended for payment of the 
premium to be triggered upon W accepting a reasonable offer or winning in court (rather 
than actually getting the money)  there would be no need for the policy to give a separate 
definition of success  and successful. I can understand the point made   a court money  
award does create an entitlement  to money  but overall the policy  is not sufficiently clear. As 
such, it is my opinion that there is no premium  due to Great Lakes at this time.
I dont consider it is therefore reasonable to apply the term in the way Great  Lakes seeks to 
do. Given that I think this is sufficient  reason  to uphold  the complaint, I do not intend to 
consider the sale of the policy, the way the premium  was calculated or Great Lakess 
conduct in pursuing  payment. 
Great Lakes has also said that the solicitors failed  to get a costs  assessment to include the 
premium and therefore had not made  efforts to recover this from the other party as they 
should have done. I dont  know if this is correct or not. We are unable to consider or give any 
legal advice. W may be able to complain  to the Legal Ombudsman if it is concerned  about  
anything the solicitors have or havent done. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Great Lakes Insurance; it is not entitled to payment of the 
premium from W unless  and until W receives  the amount  awarded  by the court  in its favour.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5934136