K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) charged excessive 
interest and charges to her account  in relation to gambling transactions.  She says 
Barclaycard hasnt acted  fairly and shouldve identified from her spending that she had a 
problem. 
background
Miss G has a Barclaycard  credit  card account  which was opened  in March 2011. Ive seen 
account statements  from late 2012 onwards. The statements show  the card was used 
regularly. Initially this was for normal day to day usage.
From March 2013, Miss G began using the card frequently for gambling transactions. Each 
time she used the card for a gambling  transaction, she incurred a cash transaction  fee. 
Interest was also applied  to the outstanding balance.
These regular gambling transactions  continued until January 2018. During that time there  
were also regular payments made to the account  sometimes for quite large amounts. This 
kept the outstanding  balance in check. But even then the account was often close  to or 
marginally above Miss Gs credit  limit.  
In March 2018 Miss G complained to Barclaycard. She said she felt let down by the situation  
shed found herself  in. She acknowledged the interest and charges applied were detailed  in 
the terms and conditions. But she felt Barclaycard had shown a lack of care by allowing such 
a large amount (she estimated combined interest  and charges of over £13,500) to have 
been applied  to her account  over the preceding  four years.  She said she felt Barclaycard  
had looked to profit from her gambling  problem and had acted irresponsibly.
Barclaycard said it didnt think it had acted irresponsibly. And it said that all charges and 
interest had been  applied  in line with the account  terms  and conditions.  It acknowledged it 
had made  errors in how it initially logged and responded to Miss Gs complaint. As a result  it 
credited £50 to her account for the inconvenience as well as a further £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill to cover some of the interest charges shed previously incurred. 
Unhappy with Barclaycards response Miss G asked our service to look into the complaint. 
Although she was unhappy  with the goodwill gesture  as when compared to the amount 
actually charged  she thought this was insulting  Miss G said she was no longer concerned 
with the customer  service issue from when the complaint was first logged.  Her complaint 
was now mainly about how she had been  treated  and whether other  account  holders might 
also be disadvantaged by Barclaycards approach.
An investigator considered what had happened. He said that overall he felt Barclaycard had 
acted fairly.  He thought the charges and interest  had been  applied in line with the terms of 
the account. While there  had been times that the account had exceeded its credit limit due to 
some of the transactions it was generally  well maintained. And, even when the limits were  
exceeded, payments  then appeared to have been made promptly to rectify this. So he didnt 
think there was anything about  the activity of the account that meant Barclaycard was 
required to do more.
Ref: DRN53212272Miss G asked  for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said her complaint isnt 
that Barclaycard  hasnt  acted in line with the terms of the agreement  she acknowledged 
that it had. But she still feels it shouldve done more  and intervened earlier  due to the volume 
of gambling transactions and the account exceeding  its limits at times. As a result the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has mentioned being concerned  other customers may have been impacted in the 
same way she has. My role is to look at individual disputes and decide what  I think  the fair 
and reasonable resolution is based  on the individual merits of the complaint. So while  Ive 
taken on board Miss Gs comments Ive only looked at how Barclays  has treated her here.
As Miss G acknowledges, the charges and interest  applied to her account in respect of the 
gambling transactions, appear to have  been  applied in line with the terms and conditions of 
her account.  So I dont think Barclaycard has made  an error,  procedurally, by applying  these. 
What is left for me to decide  is whether  I think Barclaycard  has acted fairly.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Miss G made Barclaycard aware that she had a 
gambling problem  before she complained  in 2018 or that she had any concerns about 
managing financially.  So as Barclaycard wasnt asked for help, Ive thought  about whether it 
shouldve had reason, based  on the account activity, to potentially intervene  and do more 
sooner.
Ive looked at the statements for Miss Gs account. And there  were  a significant amount of 
gambling transactions, resulting in a significant number of cash  transactions  fees. But if a 
card holder  makes transactions, and there  isnt any dispute these transactions were  carried  
out by Miss G, I think Barclaycard is entitled to assume they want to purchase  the goods  or 
services being provided and honour the transactions. So I dont think  it had any grounds  not 
to make the payments where the transactions were  authorised.
It also isnt Barclaycards  responsibility to tell an account holder  what they can and cant 
spend money on or monitor transactions and make unsolicited recommendations about  how 
money is being spent.  So although there  were  a lot of gambling  transactions, I dont think 
that alone is enough to say that Barclaycard  needed to do more or shouldve limited 
Miss Gs spending. 
In addition to the large number of gambling transactions,  I can see there  were  regular  
payments and credits  made to the account.  In fact from the statements Ive seen I cant  see 
that the minimum payment was ever missed. If payments were missed, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Barclaycard to ask about  this and Miss Gs overall  circumstances. But 
here payments were being  made  and in a lot of months credits exceeding the minimum 
payment were being applied to the account.
I can see that the account did exceed  its credit limit at the end of monthly statement cycles a 
number of times  and incurred over limit fees as a result. Barclaycard has shown that on 
each occasion  these fees were charged  it wrote  to Miss G about this. The letters gave  
contact details for Miss G to get in touch if she was having difficulty  making  payments  and 
suggested some changes she could make to avoid further fees  including  changing the 
Ref: DRN53212273repayment dates.  Barclaycard  also included information in her monthly statements about the 
fees incurred.  
Ive thought about whether Barclaycard shouldve done more than this. But as Ive explained 
from the statements  Ive seen, each time the account exceeded its limit, payments were 
made to bring  it back within its limit, often for more than the monthly  minimum. While 
Barclaycard couldve  looked into the spending  pattern on Miss Gs account in a bit more  
detail as a result of it exceeding its limit, I dont think I can say it should have. It has offered 
help and suggestions in the letters it sent Miss G and repayments were being  made  to bring  
the account back in line with the agreement. So without  any suggestion from Miss G, its 
very difficult to say when,  if at all, Barclaycard shouldve  recognised  any problems Miss G 
was having over and above someone  who was occasionally  outside of their account limits 
but  more often than not managing the account normally.  
I dont doubt that this was a difficult time for Miss G. But taking into account everything Ive 
seen, I dont think I can say that Barclaycard has acted unreasonably. The charges and 
interest applied  to her account were applied correctly. And I dont think  the operation of the 
account meant that Barclaycard should have proactively intervened before Miss G made it 
aware of her gambling problem. So as a result  I dont think  I can fairly ask it to refund any of 
the charges and interest applied in respect of the gambling transactions.
my final decision
While Im sorry to disappoint Miss G, for the reasons given above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5321227