K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the replacement  phone he has been provided  with by Assurant 
General Insurance Limited (Assurant), after he made a claim on his mobile phone insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr M needed to make  a claim under  his mobile  phone insurance policy after his phone was 
accidentally damaged. Assurant accepted the claim   and send Mr M a replacement  phone.  
The replacement phone was the same make  and model as Mr Ms original  phone. But, it was 
black instead of gold. Mr M said he felt the replacement phone should  be the same colour as 
the one he initially  had.
Assurant considered Mr Ms complaint. It said its policy provided cover  to give Mr M a 
replacement phone. But, that the policy did explain the replacement phone  would not 
necessarily be the same  colour. So, it didnt think it had acted incorrectly.
Mr M disagreed with Assurants response. He said it wasnt  just the colour of the phone that 
was different  but the phone was made  in a different country  to where  his original phone 
was made.  And he said some specifications on the replacement phone  were different.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns, and didnt think his complaint should  be 
upheld. She said the policy provided cover for Mr Ms mobile phone to be repaired or 
replaced. But, that this didnt  mean the phone would be exactly the same. She said she had 
no reason to think Assurant hadnt  tried to source the same colour phone for Mr M. And she 
said Assurant had provided Mr M a replacement  phone with the same  make,  model and 
memory of his original  one. So, she felt Assurant had acted within  the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
She also noted Mr M had said the replacement phone was faulty. For example, he explained  
the battery  life was very low. But, that Assurant had said Mr M could send the phone  back  
for it to have a look at. And she felt that was a reasonable  approach  for it to take.
Mr M disagreed. He said he still had concerns about  the specifications  of the phone, as well 
as the colour of it. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms policy  documents to see what cover his policy  provides. On doing so I 
can see it provides cover  for loss, theft,  damage and breakdown  of Mr Ms phone. And it 
explains that if Mr Ms mobile is damaged or broke  down Assurant would either;
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If we 
cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification. 
Ref: DRN57804772The policy then goes  on to provide  some  information  about  replacement handsets that it 
might provide when  settling the claim. It says that Assurant will attempt to replace the phone 
with one of the same  colour  but it cant guarantee this or the replacement  of any limited or 
special edition  phones.
Given the above, Im aware Assurant doesnt need  to provide Mr M with the same  colour  
phone. But, it does need to attempt to replace a phone with one of the same  colour. So, Ive 
considered whether its likely Assurant  did this, or not.
Assurant arent able to provide me with historic evidence showing what stock levels it had of 
Mr Ms phone  at the time of Mr Ms claim. But, it has said its stock levels will change  on a 
daily basis. And, at the time of the claim it would have checked to see whether it had Mr Ms 
phone in the same colour he originally purchased it in. Because it didnt, it provided him with 
the same  make and model of phone  but in black  instead. 
Ive got no reason to doubt  Assurant  checked  the stock  levels  for Mr Ms phone in this case. 
It has explained this is standard practice in each claim it will get. And I think  its likely stock 
levels would fluctuate,  depending on demand  for them  at the time. Given this, Im satisfied 
its most  likely Assurant  did attempt to replace Mr Ms phone with one of the same  colour.  As 
it couldnt source one, I think  it was fair for it to provide the replacement  phone in a different 
colour, as this is in line with the policy terms.
Mr M has also raised concerns around  the specification  of his replacement  phone.  He has 
said the specification  of this is different. He explained he original handset was manufactured 
in China, whereas  the replacement phone was manufactured in Thailand.  And he noted 
there were other differences that affected the operational performance of the phone   such 
as the differences with the phones camera and software.  
Assurant has said that the replacement phone  it provided was exactly the same as what  
Mr M had before. And that the only difference was the colour.  So, Ive considered whether 
Mr M was provided with the same model, make and size as his original  phone, or one of 
equivalent specifications, as per the policy terms. Or, whether this differed.
Having done this, I can see the replacement  handset Mr M was provided with was of the 
same make, model and size as his original phone.
Mr M has provided some information that does suggest a difference  between  the software  
on his original phone, and the replacement one. But based on evidence Ive seen, this is as 
a result of regular updates the manufacturer completes on the software. I havent seen 
anything to suggest the make, model or size of the phone is different. Or that the phone  is of 
a lower specification  to what Mr M had before. 
I appreciate the replacement phone may have  been  made in a different country to where 
Mr Ms original  phone was manufactured. But, the phone  is the same  brand and model.  And 
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the factory of origin makes a difference  to the 
specifications of the phone. So, Im satisfied Assurant has acted in line with its policy  terms, 
and has given Mr M a fair replacement for his original phone. 
Ref: DRN57804773I understand Mr M has now said he is experiencing other problems with the phone. For 
example an issue  with the battery life being  low. Assurant has said to Mr M that he can send 
back the phone for it to review. But, Mr M hasnt done this. I think its fair for Assurant to 
have a look at the phone to establish whether there are any faults  with it. And if so, what the 
next steps for ensuring Mr M is provided  with a working phone would be. So, I dont  
recommend Assurant do anything differently here. If Mr M would like Assurant to look into 
these issues, he will need to provide Assurant with the phone  to inspect.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Assurant Insurance  Company Limited to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780477