K820x#14complaint
The Estate of the late Mrs S complains  about the way that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as 
Halifax) has dealt with her accounts.  Its being represented in this complaint  by one of the 
executors of the Estate   and the executor is being  helped with it by a representative.
background
Mrs S passed away in October  2002 and her estate was wound  up by her solicitor in 2003. 
Halifax contacted  one of the executors of the Estate  in May 2018 because  the estate has 
not been completed through  to closure. The executors agreed that one complaint would be 
made about the direct financial loss that had been  caused (which was settled in July 2018) 
and this complaint  would be made about  other  issues and losses (for which £600 
compensation was claimed - which was later increased to £900). Halifax  initially offered 
£200 compensation which was then increased  to £450, £500 and finally £700. The Estate 
didnt accept that offer and complained to this service because it said that Halifax  had taken 
too much  time to address  its complaint  satisfactorily  and hadnt  shown that no other  money 
was owed to the Estate.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Halifax couldve handled  the Estates concerns better but it had apologised and had made a 
final offer of £700  which she thought  was a fair amount.  And she said that Halifax had 
answered some of the Estates queries but it still wanted clarification on what  happened  to 
an ISA account. Given  the amount of time that had passed she didnt think  that it was 
unreasonable that Halifax was unable to provide the evidence of who were the payees of the 
cheques from that account. 
The Estates representative  on behalf of the Estate - has asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to the investigators recommendation in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that two areas should be given particular attention:
the timeliness with which Halifax dealt with the balance left sitting  in the 60 day gold 
account, once  it had decided in September 2011  to close  the account, and transfer 
the balance somewhere else within  Halifax   and the timeliness  with which  it handled 
requests for accounting information;  and
the fact that the bank statement for that account  doesnt reconcile with the Estate 
accounts which were  provided  by the Estates solicitor. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses and our role isnt to punish a business if its done 
something wrong.
Mrs S passed away in October  2002 and her estate was wound  up by her solicitor in 2003. 
But an outstanding  balance of £5.26 was left on a 60 day gold account which was held in the 
name of the personal representatives of the late Mrs S (care  of the Estates  solicitors).  An 
interest payment  of £387.96 was credited to the account in February 2004 and in September 
2011 the outstanding  balance of the account was £327.19 which was transferred and the 
account closed.  
Ref: DRN58737542Halifax identified that the £327.19 hadnt  been  paid to the Estate so it contacted an executor 
of the Estate in May 2018. That amount plus compensation was paid as a settlement with 
the Estate  in July 2018. But the Estate says that that settlement related only to the direct  
financial loss that had been  caused  and that this complaint was being made about other 
issues and losses. 
I sympathise with the executors (and others involved)  for the distress  and inconvenience that 
theyve been caused as a result of having to deal with these issues. And I find that Halifax  
hasnt dealt with them as well as it shouldve done.  It hasnt been able to explain what 
happened when  the account was closed in September  2011  or why there was a delay  of six 
and a half years before  it contacted the executors about that account. And it hasnt  
responded to requests for information as quickly  as I consider that it shouldve done.  But its 
paid the money  that was due to the Estate and has paid compensation for at least some of 
the issues arsing from the delay. 
In a final response letter it offered to pay further  compensation  of £700 and said:
 we would  like to apologise  for the slow and poor handling of the complaints raised 
. It has never been our intention to cause offence  or bring back  memories from a 
difficult time in your life. For this we do take responsibility and offer our most sincere 
apology to you and your family.
But the Estates representative then raised  concerns about  the way that the late Mrs Ss ISA 
account had been dealt  with. Halifax said that the account was closed in March 2003  and 
two cheques were drawn at the time of closure - one for £2,000 and the other for £5,839.45 
 and the remaining balance of £14,752.28 was transferred to another  account which  was 
included in the winding-up  of the Estate.  But it says that it no longer has any details of the 
payees of the cheques. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
Halifax to now be able to produce those records from 2003. 
The Estates representative says that Halifaxs delay in dealing with the 60 day gold account  
has meant that hes no longer able to obtain  information from the solicitor who dealt with the 
winding-up because hes since stopped trading.  But Im not persuaded that theres  enough 
evidence to show that Halifax has dealt with that account incorrectly. 
I consider that Halifaxs offer to pay £700 compensation is generous  and its a higher 
amount of compensation that I wouldve awarded  in these circumstances. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to pay a higher amount of 
compensation than the £700 that its already offered  or to take any other action  in 
response to this complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  should  pay to 
the executors,  on behalf of the Estate of the late Mrs S, the £700 compensation that its 
already offered to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask an executor of the 
Estate to accept  or reject  my decision before 26 October 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
Ref: DRN58737543ombudsman
Ref: DRN5873754