K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), mis-sold  her a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2004 with a mortgage. 
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  
The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.  In 
this particular case Mrs R was only covered by the PPI. She wasnt  sold life or critical illness 
protection. 
One of our adjudicators has already told Mrs R that they didnt think her mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has offered to give back  to Mrs R some  of the cost of 
the PPI. Mrs R has asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about being mis-sold the PPI 
policy.
These events were a long time ago and we no longer have access to the documents that 
would have been used during the sale. Given the sale occurred over 14 years ago this isnt 
unusual and businesses  arent required to keep  documents indefinitely.
However, weve got access to some  of Halifaxs computerised records.  Weve also seen a 
number of very similar complaints to this one and have a good and detailed  understanding  of 
how these policies were  normally sold and the procedures Halifax  used. Ive used  these 
things to help me make  a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
I can see from Halifaxs computer records that PPI was probably  discussed. The records  
show Mrs R agreed to buy PPI cover and was asked several questions about her 
employment status, her finances and general  health. 
This process  concurs  with my experience of these particular  sales  which is that consumers 
were usually asked  about whether, or what elements, of TMPP they wanted  and the results  
were recorded on the screen. I also know however, that Halifax usually then drew the 
answers up on to a written schedule  showing  what, if anything, the consumers had agreed 
to. This was sent or given  to the consumers  in the form of a letter.  
I also know it was usual  for consumers to be given documents by Halifax where it was 
explained that PPI wasnt something  they needed to have  with their mortgage. My 
experience is that consumers were also sent a welcome letter  about  the TMPP which set 
out the different elements chosen (or rejected).
Mrs R says she cant remember much about the sale although I completely accept she now 
genuinely thinks the cover  was mis-sold to her. But overall, because of what Ive explained 
above, I think Halifax got her consent  for this cover in 2004.
Ref: DRN54102472Halifax says it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs R as part of an advised sale.  Again, 
this corresponds with my experience and means Halifax  had a duty to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs Rs particular circumstances. I think it probably  was.
I say this because  Mrs Rs mortgage was secured against her home so the consequences of 
her not being  able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI policy,  on the 
other hand, was designed  to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if she had needed to 
claim. In my experience, this is quite  a long time and much longer than the sick pay she had 
with her job. Looking  at the £18 cost of the premiums, I also think they were  affordable. 
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the rules in the PPI policy  document  and I think  Mrs R 
would have been eligible  for the cover and able to make a successful claim if shed needed 
to. Overall, I think  the PPI cover was suitable for her. 
During the sale Halifax also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say Mrs R was told or given  all the information she should  have been but I 
think she would have  been able to see how much  the policy cost and what was covered. I 
think she would have  also been  given a copy of the policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its more likely that Mrs R tailored the TMPP 
cover to suit her needs of the time.  I think she probably agreed to the cover  because it was 
something she thought  would  be useful  to have. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mrs R paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc has since  offered  to give her 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. Bank of 
Scotland plc will make  arrangements to pay Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs mis-sale complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  more than the above to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5410247