complaint
Mr H has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading 
as Quick Quid) ("Quick  Quid" or "the lender" ).
background
Quick Quid agreed  seven  loans for Mr H from April2015  to May 2017. The loans ranged  
from £50 to £1,200 in value and were to be repaid over two or three  payments.  The below  
table summarises  some of the information  Quick Quid  provided about these loans. Mr H 
asked for additional credit or a top-up on his fourth loan, which is shown  in the table as loan
4a.
Start date End datePrincipal
(£)Term
(days)Pment
1(£)Pment
2 (£)Pment
3 (£)EDI for 
loan 
term(£)
123/04/2015 01/05/2015 £400 53 £70 £499 - £1,994
226/05/2015 27/06/2015 £600 50 £96 £744 - £957
329/06/2015 14/08/2015 £300 46 £38 £372 - £736
401/09/2015 25/09/2015 £500 73 £56 £120 £616 £2,273
4a 03/09/2015 26/09/2015 £200 71 £75 £168 £862
518/10/2015 15/12/2015 £50 58 £10 £63 - £131
604/08/2016 15/02/2017 £1,200 103 £403 £278 £1,507 £3,569
727/05/2017 15/12/2017 £550 80 £79 £128 £691 £1,070
Mr H says that Quick  Quid shouldnt  have  agreed these loans.  He says that the affordability  
checks the lender carried out were not adequate  and the loans were unaffordable  for him. 
Mr H also says that when  he repaid  the loans he had to borrow again to cover his next 
months living costs. He says that he was borrowing from other short-term lenders  at the 
same time and had outstanding debts.
Our adjudicator found that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld in part and recommended  that 
Quick Quid refund the interest  and charges he paid for his second loan and loans  4 to 7 
inclusive. Quick Quid  didnt agree with this recommendation  and so the complaint  has come  
to me, as an ombudsman,  to review and resolve.
After an initial review  of the complaint, I provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint  
about his second loan. I explained why to him and he has accepted  this. So the loans  
remaining in dispute are loans  4 to 7 and I will focus  on these in my decision.
Ref: DRN5317129my findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time.
In response to our adjudication, Quick  Quid said "Thank you for your correspondence.  In 
response to your assessment  which recommends   CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which  
were funded after March 2015. we regret to inform you that cannot agree to FOS  
recommendations. Please  note that in our prior response to FOS we provided  detailed  
information indicating why Mr [H] s loans were responsibly lent to him. Furthermore.  we 
would like to advise  that we are currently  in talks with senior management  at FOS to 
amicably resolve this outstanding issue. therefore we kindly ask that you move this case  for 
ombudsman queue for a final decision."
This Service has responded  to Quick Quid on the above generic argument directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So I am not going to expand on this point  any further here,  
though I have considered  it alongside  everything else in making my decision.
I would remind Quick  Quid at this point of the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in 
how complaints  are to be dealt with promptly and fairly by businesses. In particular DISP
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses   procedures for complaint  handling should  ...
"ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations  by the Ombudsman are effectively  
applied in future complaint handling, for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns  in determinations   by the Ombudsman  concerning  complaints  
received by the respondent and using  this in training and development  of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent;  and
(3) analysing  guidance  produced by the FCA . other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and communicating  it to the individuals dealing  with 
complaints in the respondent."
My decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Hs complaint and what both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr H borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN)  and its Consumer  Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. I am not quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would  
expect Quick Quid to be conversant  with these  through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions which set these out in detail.
In summary, Quick Quid needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. This means that Quick Quid should  have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr H could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things,  such as how much was being  lent, the repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure.
In general, Id expect  a lender to require  more  assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example,  Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance  by carrying out more detailed checks
Ref: DRN5317129the higher  the loan amount,
the lower  the consumers  income; or 
the longer  the lending  relationship.
There may even come  a point where the lending  history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending  was unsustainable. This means Quick Quids checks needed  
to respond to the circumstances of the lending in question.
In coming to a decision  on Mr Hs case, I started by considering whether or not
Quick Quid completed reasonable  and proportionate checks  when assessing  each of Mr Hs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would  be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable
way. And if not, Ive considered what proportionate checks were  likely  to have shown.
Our adjudicator thought  the checks the lender carried out for Mr Hs first loan went far 
enough but that it ought to have looked further into Mr Hs circumstances  the more loans he 
applied for.
I understand that when Mr H applied  for loans, Quick  Quid asked him about his income and 
expenditure and carried out credit  file checks through a credit reference agency. Quick Quid  
said that "there were no factors  that would prohibit the business from lending to Mr [H). as 
his credit report did not show markers  that would cause alarm. such  as discharges. CCJs,  
credit searches.  or disputes." I dont know exactly what  Quick Quid might have seen on its 
credit file checks as it hasnt provided  the results of these.
When Mr H first applied  for a loan with Quick  Quid he told the lender he had a monthly  
income of £2,500  with an expenditure of £1,025. His first loan was for £400. Given  the size 
of the repayments  and that it was his first loan, I think it was reasonable for Quick Quid  to 
agree to lend on the information  it had available.
Mr Hs second loan was for £600 and he gave broadly  similar income and expenditure  
figures (for this loan and loans 3 and 4). Given the size of this loan taken out within a month  
of repaying his first, I think Quick Quid  ought to have done more here to satisfy itself that
Mr H didnt have anything else beyond what hed declared that might impact on his ability to
meet his repayments. Our adjudicator thought the lender  ought to have gathered information  
about any other short term commitments  Mr H might have  had when  he applied  for this loan 
and his next two. Although Mr Hs third loan was for a lower amount, it was taken  out within  
days of him repaying his second.
Quick Quid says it incorporated some  of the information it gathered  from Mr Hs credit file 
results to calculate how much money he would have had available  to him over the term of 
each loan. And it provided what it calls an estimated disposable income figure  (EDI) for 
each loan. These figures generally show that Mr Hs disposable income (pro-rata  over a 
month) was much lower than what it recorded as his stated monthly disposable income. But 
without knowing  the results of Quick Quids credit  file checks or how it incorporated this 
information into its calculations, I cant say that the checks it carried out for loans 2, 3 or 4 
were proportionate as Ive described  above.
Our adjudicator thought that when Mr H asked for his fifth loan Quick Quid ought to have  
gathered a more  comprehensive picture of his finances, as it was the fifth loan with the 
lender in six months which may have been indicative of a pattern of dependency. I agree  with 
our adjudicator here. Mr H said his monthly income  was £2,600 and his expenses were
£1,225. But I dont think  it was fair at this stage  for Quick Quid  to continue to rely on the 
information Mr H provided without verification.  I appreciate that Mr Hs fifth loan was for the 
relatively low amount  of £50. I note the EDI figure was correspondingly  low and considerably
Ref: DRN5317129reduced from its previous calculation. So, altogether, Quick Quid ought to have  been  
concerned here about the risk to Mr H of him not being able to meet his repayments  
sustainably and looked  further into his finances before  agreeing to lend.
Similarly, Quick Quid ought to have enquired  further  into Mr Hs circumstances   when he 
applied for loans 6 and 7, notwithstanding  the gap in repaying loan 5 and asking for loan 6. 
His stated monthly disposable income  remained at about £1,400.  But agreeing Mr Hs sixth  
loan meant  committing him to meeting a repayment of about £1,500, over half his declared  
income. And although  his seventh and final loan was granted after a few months  gap and 
was for a lower amount,  I can see that he had trouble making his repayments for loan 6 and
entered into a pre-default  repayment plan in November  2016, eventually repaying this loan in
February 2017.
In summary, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint about his first loan because I think the 
checks Quick Quid carried out were  proportionate to the circumstances  and so I cant  say 
the lender did something wrong by agreeing to this. But I think Quick Quid  ought to have  
done more when Mr H applied  for his second loan onwards. So I have  reviewed what
Quick Quid was likely to have  found out about his finances,  had it carried out proportionate
checks for loans 2 to 7.
As our adjudicator  explained, Mr Hs outgoings fluctuated  but were generally higher than 
hed declared. He was borrowing from several other short-term lenders  during  the period  he 
borrowed from Quick  Quid and he sometimes  spent  more than his monthly income on 
betting  sites. Ive looked through a recent copy of Mr Hs credit  file and his bank statements  
from the time and can see this was the case. In addition I note that Mr H was repaying
several longer term loans throughout this time and usually used  all of his overdraft  limit each  
month (of about £2,500  to £3,000) resulting  in him paying arranged overdraft charges and 
occasionally unplanned  overdraft fees. Altogether, giving Mr H more credit  was not likely to 
be sustainable for him for most of his loans.
As Ive explained  above, as their lending relationship developed Quick Quid ought to have  
sought more  assurance from Mr H that he could repay its loans in a sustainable manner.  Its 
likely that the lender would have understood that Mr H wouldnt have been able to do so for 
loans 4 to 7 and as a responsible  lender  would  not have agreed to lend to him under those  
circumstances. So I am upholding  his complaint about these  loans.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint about his second loan. But, as Ive mentioned, I am 
not doing so. All of Mr Hs loans were to be repaid over two or three  payments. And he had 
repaid his first loan within a couple  of weeks.  Altogether, even  had Quick Quid  learnt  of
Mr Hs outstanding short term loans with other lenders it would  likely  have concluded that he
would have sufficient  income to meet his repayments  on this particular loan as they fell due. 
And so I dont think it was unreasonable  for Quick Quid to agree to this second loan for Mr H 
on that basis.  Similarly with Mr Hs third loan-  it was to be repaid  over two payments and 
although he was borrowing from other short term lenders, I think  it would  have  seemed  to 
Quick Quid that the amounts he had outstanding when taking  out this loan wouldnt have  
rendered it unaffordable for him. And so, again, it wasnt unreasonable   of Quick Quid to lend 
on this occasion.
However, when Mr H continued to ask for credit beyond  this point  I dont think  Quick Quid  
could continue to lend on the basis  that Mr H could  potentially save some money from month  
to month  to manage his repayments . And this, combined with what proportionate checks  
would likely have  shown about his financial situation, would have led to it declining loans  4 to
7.
Ref: DRN5317129what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Ive concluded that Quick Quid  was irresponsible  to agree to lend to Mr H from
September 2015 onwards,  namely loans  4 to 7 in the summary table  above. In order to put 
Mr H back in the position  he would have been in, had it not agreed these, Quick Quid  
should:
- refund all interest  and charges Mr H paid for loans 4 to 7 inclusive and including the top-
up on loan 4;
- refund all interest  and charges he paid for these loans;
- pay interest  on these refunds at 8% simple*  per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
- remove any adverse  information about these loans from Mr Hs credit file;
*HM Revenue  & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must  give
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  and direct CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as I have set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317129