K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy taken out in 2004. 
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the MPPI. 
Mrs H was sold a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2001. TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC). 
Mrs H took all sections of the policy but says that she wouldve wanted  to take the life and 
Critical Illness cover  shes  only complaining  about the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know Mrs H will find this disappointing, so Ill 
explain the reasons  for my decision. 
Mrs H says that although she wouldve wanted  to take out life cover,  and CIC, that she 
definitely wouldnt have  wanted to take out MPPI. She says that she cancelled this part of 
the cover  in 2011 when she realised what it was. 
BoS doesnt have paperwork available from the time it sold the MPPI to Mrs H  but this in 
itself isnt unusual  as businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.  But BoS has 
been able to show that the sales process  it used at the presented  the MPPI as an optional  
product, and gained proper  consent  to take it out. I havent seen  anything  to suggest  that 
BoS did anything  differently  when it sold Mrs H her MPPI, so I think its likely BoS made it 
clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the MPPI and she chose to take it out  although  I 
can if she cant remember this as it was so long ago  and while  she may have cancelled 
this part of her policy  in 2011, this doesnt  mean that BoS did anything  wrong when it 
originally sold it to her. 
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mrs H so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs H about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including  what shes  said about being told 
that she didnt  need MPPI  on two occasions  separate to this particular sale. But Im only 
looking at the sale that took place in 2004   so I cant comment on any other interactions 
that may have taken  place. And this point doesnt change my decision. 
Ref: DRN58580492This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs H back some of the cost of the 
MPPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs H now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5858049