K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about a recent  policy review  conducted by Phoenix Life Limited.  He doesnt 
think the outcome  is correct. 
background 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
short, she said:
Because a previous complaint about  the reviewable nature of the policy has been  
dealt with, she will only consider the latest  review. 
It appears the business missed the 2016  review. Its actuarial department having 
conducted the missed  review  found  the premium needed to increase to maintain the 
sum assured.   
Based  on this and without requiring  Mr R to pay a higher premium the business re-
ran the 2018 review  and found the premiums increased from £45 to £67 to maintain a 
£19,287 sum assured. Or it said Mr R could maintain £45 premium for a £14,205 
sum assured.  
Prior to this error  coming to light, following  the 2018 review Mr R had already elected 
to increase his premium to £83.40 to maintain the sum assured. So, on this basis if 
Mr R agreed, the business offered to refund the difference in premium as fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
feels that as a service  were happy to accept  the business account and ignore his points.  
Hes unsure how the business has reduced  the premiums  form £83.40  to £67.50  and feels 
its making things up as it goes along.  He also feels the business is ripping customers  off 
with charges far in excess of its original estimates.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr R says,  Im satisfied what the 
business has proposed is fair and reasonable in relation to the 2016 missed  review. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  its important for me to note I recognise 
Mr Rs strength of feeling about this whole matter.
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr R wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr R and the business,  and reach  what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
Ref: DRN54908542In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note the business accepts  that it missed the 2016 review. Because of this its actuarial 
department conducted the review that it should  have done  in 2016. Having done so, it found 
that Mr R would need to increase his premiums  to maintain the sum assured. 
Without requiring  Mr R to pay the increased  premium the business  re-ran the 2018 review, 
on the assumption that Mr R wouldve paid the increased premium from 2016 to maintain the 
sum assured. As a consequence it found  in 2018 the premium would need to increase again. 
But because Mr R had already agreed to increase the premium in order to maintain the sum 
assured  on the incorrect basis  the business has offered to pay Mr R the difference  
between the amount he had been wrongly  paying and what  he wouldve been paying but for 
the error.  
The premium he has been paying  is £83.40 because  there was no review in 2016. This 
means the policy didnt  have  the benefit of the increased premiums that shouldve  been paid 
from 2016. This explains why the monthly  premiums  have gone from £83.40  to £67.50.  This 
is what the figure should be if the business  had conducted the 2016 missed  review and puts 
Mr R back in the position he should  be in  without requiring him to pay any of the increased 
premiums that shouldve been paid from 2016. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business offer is fair and 
reasonable.  
Im mindful of the cases  that Mr R refers to but Im unable to comment upon this. Every case 
has to be considered on its own merits. Whilst we aim to be consistent  with our decisions an 
ombudsman is not bound  by another ombudsmans decision and must decide a case  base 
on its individual merits. 
In the circumstances for the reasons set out above  I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable  
to require the business to reinstate  Mr Rs sum assured and premiums  to what they were  at 
the outset without any regard to the reviews.  
Im mindful Mr R is concerned about the amount  of premiums  hes paid in relation to the 
benefit. But Im satisfied that theres no guarantee that the benefit will be higher  than the 
level of premiums. I understand the policy itself is not an investment, but a protection policy.  
So its not designed to provide a large  investment return.
I appreciate Mr R will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN54908543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5490854