K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Mrs A are unhappy with the way Union  Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a 
claim made on their travel insurance policy. 
Any references to URV include  its representatives and cost containment agents. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case, which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
Both sides have received  and responded to the decision. Mrs A has accepted  my provisional 
decision but URV has not. 
In its response to my provisional findings,  URV has made the following comments, in 
summary:
URV has provided a further explanation of how it has calculated its payment figures 
with an example of one particular code showing a base cost of $335.52 and a 
settlement figure of $503.28
The rates for hospital outpatient  services  are applicable nationally regardless of the 
state in which treatment takes place 
The US congressional committee publishes for each financial year what  it costs 
hospitals nationally  to provide each service, and this is an objective benchmark  used 
by insurance companies in the USA and internationally. The American  Hospital 
Association publishes  a report on Medicare/Medicaid underpayment each year and 
whilst the 2017 report shows a 13% shortfall in Medicare payments against  hospital 
costs it is evidence  that URVs payment still results in a profit
URVs written  notification of settlement invites the provider to contact URV but in its 
many years of experience, US hospitals do not engage to seek a resolution  and 
instead, place  the account with Swiss-based debt collectors
URV has referred me to another case and has said the circumstances  are essentially 
the same  as this case and so there  is no reason why a different outcome should be 
reached
It says negotiation does not lead to reasonableness
Payment of excessive  bills, when  directed  to do so by a regulator,  will lead to an 
ever-increasing cycle of inflation  and all other  customers premiums will have to rise 
as a result
Until this year, this service routinely agreed with URVs  procedures  and there  is no 
reason for a sudden change 
URV doesnt accept  that it is reasonable or necessary to pay the inflated bill
URV has made an offer to appoint  and pay for a UK solicitor  to represent Mrs A with 
the aim of stopping  the debt collectors sending further correspondence, to raise the 
compensation to £500 and to provide whatever additional written reassurance  is 
needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld  for all the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN54459352First of all, I am grateful for URVs  additional  comments and submissions. Ive carefully 
considered URVs position and its comments,  but I dont think  its fair and reasonable for 
Mrs A to continue dealing with this matter for an indefinite period of time, over an amount 
which isnt particularly substantial. Ive put URVs offer to Mrs A but she isnt happy to accept 
it and so I will explain why I consider URV should pay the outstanding amount. 
Id also like to deal with URVs  comments about  the Financial Ombudsman Services 
previous decisions  and other similar cases.  Although it is important for this service  to be 
consistent in its decision  making, each case is decided on its own facts  taking  into account a 
number of factors including the impact on the complainant and the specific circumstances of 
each case. Our decisions do not create  precedents and instead,  complaints must be 
considered and decided upon individually. This means there  will be occasions where  cases  
with similar  circumstances may have a different outcome depending on the differences  in 
each case. 
I note URVs reference to similar cases, which I have considered, and I have reviewed all of 
the correspondence provided.  Ive considered  URVs offer which  Mrs A doesnt accept - had 
it come  at an earlier stage, it may have  resolved  matters. But as I set out in my provisional  
decision, I dont  think URV gave  Mrs A sufficient reassurance at an earlier  stage. It confirms 
its settlement figures are based  on national rates  but Im not satisfied this takes  into 
account the actual cost of treatment in the particular state in which  the patient is treated. 
Ive seen URVs written notification to the healthcare provider of settlement and I still 
consider more could  and should have been  done to actively negotiate or have the bill 
adjudicated. I accept that negotiation wont lead to a reasonable settlement in every  case, 
but I do consider  attempting negotiation, especially where the consumer has raised 
concerns, would be fair and reasonable. 
So for all of the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, taking into consideration the sum 
of money involved,  I think URV should  pay the outstanding amount in this particular  case.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint. Within  28 days from the date on which  we tell it that Mrs A 
accepts our final decision, I direct URV to:
Pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together  with any interest 
due on the outstanding amount  and any collections fees Mrs A is liable for, and
Pay Mrs A £200 as compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt already 
been paid
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2020.
Yours sincerely 
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54459353copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L and Mrs A are unhappy  with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled  a claim Mrs A 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
Any references to URV include its representatives and cost containment agents.
background
Mr L and Mrs A bought a single trip travel insurance  policy underwritten  by URV to cover a trip to the 
United States (US). 
They went on holiday to the US in 2016 when  Mrs A had to be taken to hospital  (the healthcare 
provider) to the emergency  department  due to severe food poisoning. Mr L contacted  URV who told 
them they should only pay the excess and make  a claim  on the policy.  
Mrs A submitted her claim to URV in February 2017.  URV chased the healthcare provider  for its 
paperwork and breakdown of costs  including  medical codes.
The healthcare provider sent URV a breakdown of its costs in December  2017 with the required 
procedure codes amounting  to $4,220.16.  URV replied and confirmed it would pay $911.63.  It said its 
Cost Containment Team (CCT) had audited the medical  invoice  and it had assessed reasonable 
expenses on the basis of the cost rate as determined  by the US Congress. 
The healthcare provider chased Mrs A for the remainder of the bill. Mrs A forwarded  all 
correspondence to URV and ultimately  the healthcare provider passed the matter to a debt collector. 
The debt collector has been pursuing Mrs A and corresponding with her since 2018 with threats of 
legal action and an adverse  impact on her credit rating. It sent a demand for the outstanding  balance  
of $3,271.99  which remains unpaid.
URV has provided Mrs A reassurances that she wont be liable for any costs or subject to any further 
action by the debt collector. Mrs A complained to URV and asked it to pay the outstanding bill. 
Mrs A referred her complaint  to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and said URV 
hadnt provided clear evidence to show that the costs  claimed by the healthcare provider  were  
excessive or unreasonable and there was no evidence of any meaningful  negotiation.  And so she 
recommended that URV should  pay the outstanding amount in full or reach an immediate agreed 
settlement and also pay £200 compensation. 
URV disagreed  and in summary, made the following  comments:
It uses benchmark  data to determine what a reasonable cost for Mrs As treatment in the US 
would be 
URV pays a reasonable amount of profit over the benchmark cost rates  and this position is 
supported by a growing  body of case law in the US courts
Once a reasonable position has been reached, any negotiation would automatically lead 
insurers to pay unreasonable charges  which would drive up premiums across the entire 
market
URV has provided screenshots of the base data to show that its settlements are reasonable,  
and the charges are unreasonable 
URV will not pay costs that are grossly excessive or generated through  suspected fraudulent 
activity to stop debt collectors targeting customers 
URV acknowledge that it may not have properly reassured the customer  or recognised the 
impact on the individual  and has offered £200 compensation  for any trouble and upset
Ref: DRN54459354Mrs A has told us that she continues to receive demands from the debt collection agency and is 
troubled by these, the possibility of being sued, and the effect of the outstanding  debt on her credit 
rating.  
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I think Mrs As complaint should  be upheld and 
largely for the same  reasons as already outlined by the investigator.  
As a matter of general legal principle, URV  is bound to indemnify Mrs A against losses  covered by the 
policy as and when the amount of her loss (here the amount of Mrs As liability  to the healthcare 
provider) has been ascertained. That may be by agreement, by court judgment or by arbitration. So 
URV has a commercial interest in being able to take over the defence and settlement of such claims  
in Mrs As name.  
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made  under  the 
policy
In effect, this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim   defending or settling it  
in the name  of Mrs A. But that isnt an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations  where URVs interests  conflict  with Mrs As, URV  has a responsibility to act in 
good faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim  having regard to Mrs As interests as 
well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about  
declining to pay the full amount of the invoice and contesting  the outstanding amount. In deciding 
whether  and how  to defend possible legal action against Mrs A, URV is required to base its 
decisions on the circumstances of Mrs As individual case. 
The applicable regulations  lead to a similar conclusion.  
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, 
which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and 
between a customer  and another client. 
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information 
on its progress;
(3)not unreasonably reject  a claim  (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory  Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment  of Customers (RPPD) includes  the Regulators  guidance on what 
the combination  of Principles for Businesses (the Principles) and the detailed rules require providers 
and distributors  of financial  services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD 
explains that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer  
throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided. 
Ref: DRN54459355Ive also taken  into account what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time of the 
claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance   and their agents  to engage diligently  with 
healthcare providers  to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively seeking  a compromise or 
adjudication of their bills. That includes actively engaging in negotiation. 
Ill now explain  what this means for Mrs As complaint. 
URV says the USA government annually issues the congressional guidelines  (the guidelines)  which 
set out the suggested rates of payment for medical  procedures and treatment. URV says it uses  the 
guidelines as a benchmark  when deciding whether  the amounts  charged are reasonable. It says it 
then pays a certain  percentage above this, which  its disclosed to our Service.
URV has accepted responsibility for the sums properly  due under the invoices and hasnt said that 
any of the procedures  which are itemised  on the invoices shouldnt have been charged for  or 
shouldnt be paid at all. It has simply said that the amounts charged are unreasonably  excessive. Its 
sought to rely on the guidelines to support the amounts  it has paid to the healthcare  provider for the 
medical care Mrs A received in 2016.
URV has provided a link to a website  which it says shows that the source  of the benchmark data it 
uses to determine a reasonable cost is part of the US Government and is not arbitrary.
URV has also provided some further information  and three screenshots. It says the screenshots show 
how much  it costs the hospital to provide service  to Mrs A, according to the US Congressional 
committee which sets these rates.
The screenshots include some cost codes and payment  rates  for hospital  outpatient services. There  
is also a table  of six codes with descriptions and some figures showing  a national  limit and a mid-point 
from the American Medical Association. And there is a third table with three codes and the payment 
limit for drugs. 
Ive looked at the guidelines  and the costs charged. Ive also looked at the screenshots  provided by 
URV but I havent  been provided with a clear  explanation  of how URV has used the information  in the 
guidelines and the screenshots provided  together to reach a conclusion on what  a reasonable  
payment would be. 
Without any clear  information  and data showing which  figures  URV has used for each code on the 
invoices, Im not satisfied  that the items charged for on the invoices are equivalent to those drawn  by 
URV from the guidelines or correspond  to figures for the particular state of the US where Mrs A was 
treated. Nor, have I been shown anything to convince me that the guidelines  establish a valid 
benchmark for the fair market value of services provided  outside the US Medicare/Medicaid systems  
to which they relate. So Im not persuaded the invoices are grossly excessive  or out of line with what 
might be charged.
But in any case, even if the guidelines do support URVs  decision to not pay the outstanding amount, 
Im not satisfied it has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has handled Mrs As claim. 
Ive seen correspondence from Mr L and Mrs A to URV since submitting the claim  and asking  URV to 
pay the outstanding amount. Mrs A told URV she was concerned that this would affect  her credit 
rating and also her ability to travel to the USA without any problems. And although  URV gave  Mrs A 
some reassurances, it has accepted that these  werent  sufficient, and that Mrs A has been worried 
and concerned by the correspondence she has been  receiving from the debt collectors on a regular 
basis.
The policy allows URV to take over, and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim made under 
the policy  in Mrs As name. But I expect  it to do so in a fair and reasonable way  and I must  have 
regard to the law, the relevant industry rules and regulations, and good practice. URV has a duty to 
Ref: DRN54459356deal with claims promptly and fairly and to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to 
Mrs As interests and treating her fairly. I dont think its done that in this case. 
URV accepts  it delayed in paying part of the invoices  after they had been received. It took a unilateral 
decision to only pay part of the invoice.  I havent seen any evidence that it discussed its approach 
with Mrs A before  doing  so. In its final response to Mrs As complaint, URV said: when dealing with 
hospitals in the United States, negotiation of bills is essential.
But URV has subsequently confirmed it didnt  negotiate with the healthcare provider.
Whilst nobody could suggest  that negotiation will lead to a reasonable  settlement being achieved in 
every case, in many  cases  it may do so; and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that it couldnt have been 
productive in this case. Before negotiation is abandoned in a case  like this, I would  normally expect  to 
see an insurer  explain  and justify its position by reference to the particular items in dispute, take on 
board any response  it receives,  and advance arguments addressed to the particular  issues in dispute 
to try to persuade the healthcare provider to accept the sum being  offered, or reach a mutually 
acceptable compromise.
Bearing in mind  the rules and regulations set out above, I havent seen any evidence  that URV has 
engaged with the hospital  or the debt collector. And it didnt actively seek a compromise or actively 
engage in negotiation even though it said it would  in its final response to the complaint. So I consider 
this to be unreasonable  and unfair to Mrs A. 
URV has stated:
It uses benchmark  data to determine what a reasonable cost for Mrs As treatment in the US 
would be.
It pays a reasonable amount of profit over the benchmark cost rates  and this position is 
supported by a growing  body of case law in the US courts.
Once a reasonable position has been reached, any negotiation would automatically lead 
insurers to pay unreasonable charges  which would drive up premiums across the entire 
market
It will not pay costs that are grossly excessive or generated through suspected fraudulent 
activity to stop debt collectors targeting customers. 
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly  manage any conflicts 
between its own interests and those of Mrs A. I dont think it has had due regard to Mrs As interests 
here. And I think it has unreasonably  put its own commercial interests above hers without considering 
her specific  circumstances. 
The amount in dispute is $3,271.99  which  isnt a substantial sum. URV has paid approximately a 
quarter of the full amount requested by the hospital.
I dont think its fair to continue  to subject Mrs A to a protracted  dispute over such a comparatively 
small amount  when considering the length  of time this has gone on for and the continuing trouble and 
worry this is causing to her. Mrs A is concerned  about possible legal action  being  taken against her 
and I dont think  URV has considered  the impact of its actions on Mrs A as it is required to do. 
Ive considered everything URV  has said as outlined  above. But URV doesnt have the absolute right 
to partially settle or defend a case in accordance  with its own practices or interests  it still must act 
fairly and reasonably when doing so  and must have regard to the interests of the policyholder. I 
dont think its done that here. 
Ref: DRN54459357Mrs A is being  chased  regularly by debt collectors  who are threatening legal  action and an impact on 
her credit rating.  And URV  has told Mrs A to ignore the debt collectors and simply  forward any 
correspondence on to it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable that Mrs A has been put in this 
position. She purchased  travel insurance  which covers medical attention and she doesnt expect  to be 
exposed, without  a very good reason, to continuing action from debt collectors and threats of litigation 
years after visiting an overseas hospital and meeting the excess under  the policy  - and looking at all 
the circumstances of this case, URV doesnt  seem to have considered  the impact of this on Mrs A.
URV has also referred to US case law, and that its position to pay a reasonable margin of profit over 
the rates  contained in the guidelines, is supported  by it. 
Our investigator pointed out to URV that we needed specific details of US case  law before it would be 
reasonable to accept  URVs position on this point.  And she asked URV to provide details  of the US 
case law it had relied on but URV hasnt responded to this. And so I dont know on what basis URV 
has suggested that there  is a body of US case law to support its position. 
And whilst  Ive noted what URV  has said about USA case law, Ive not found  it possible to give this 
much weight without seeing the cases that URV  says are relevant. And Ive placed  more  weight on 
the law, relevant industry rules and regulations, and good industry  practice applicable to insurers who 
conduct their business in the UK when deciding this particular complaint.
putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the ombudsmans 
determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case  is URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction  may require the respondent, here URV,  to take such  
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman  considers just and appropriate whether  or not 
a court  could  order those  steps to be taken.
I accept that, because the healthcare providers bill hasnt been agreed or adjudicated, there isnt an 
ascertained legal liability  on Mrs A to pay the balance of the bill to the healthcare  provider so URVs 
duty to indemnify her by paying that balance hasnt been triggered. But in this particular case, Im 
persuaded its fair and reasonable  for URV  to do so  particularly given that the amount in dispute 
isnt particularly  substantial.
Thats because, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think there is sufficient evidence that the 
invoices were  grossly excessive, and I dont think URV  has acted  fairly  and reasonably in the way in 
which it has taken over the handling  of the defence or settlement of the healthcare providers claim  
against Mrs A.
When making this finding,  Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to negotiate a 
reduction in the amounts  charged by the healthcare  provider and agree a figure less than the 
outstanding amount.  However, its had since 2017, more  than two years to do so, and hasnt.  And so 
in the circumstances  of this particular  case, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for URV to 
settle the outstanding amount without further delay. 
URV has also acknowledged that it may not have given  adequate reassurance  to Mrs A and has 
accepted that it delayed in making  partial  payment of the invoices. URV  has offered £200 
compensation for the worry and upset caused by its actions which  I consider is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case when taken together with the direction that I intend to make.
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mrs A accepts our final decision  I direct URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest due on the 
outstanding amount and any collection fees Mrs A is liable for, and
pay Mrs A £200  as compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt already been paid. 
Ref: DRN5445935