K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that he was given two finance  agreements by Hyundai Capital UK Limited  
which were unsuitable  for him. 
background
In October  2015, Mr R acquired a car from a dealership which  was financed by a conditional 
sale agreement through Hyundai.  Mr R says the agreement was sold to him as a Personal 
Contract Purchase (PCP). The cash price of the car was £10,749 of which £9,000  was 
financed. Mr R paid the remainder as a deposit. The agreement  was for 49 months  with 
monthly repayments of around £147. The final payment was around  £3,500.  
Mr R says this agreement  had an annual mileage allowance of 6,000  miles.  He understood 
that this meant if he wanted to return the car (rather  than paying the final payment), hed 
need to pay a charge for any additional mileage he drove in excess of that annual  allowance. 
Mr R says that he told the dealership 6,000  miles per year wasnt sufficient for his needs. 
This was because he regularly visited poorly  relatives who lived over a hundred miles away.  
He says he initially told the dealership 10,000  miles would be more appropriate, but the 
finance options the dealership offered with that allowance  were  too expensive for him. 
Mr R says the dealership  assured him that if he was close  to (or had exceeded) his mileage 
allowance he could  simply contact  the finance  provider  (Hyundai) and have the allowance 
increased. But when  Mr R contacted Hyundai in July 2017 to ask for the allowance  to be 
increased, Hyundai told him this wasnt possible. 
Mr R says he complained  to the dealership  at the time but this didnt resolve his problem. 
Around ten months later he says he complained to the dealership again. This time he says 
the dealership  took his complaint more seriously.  He says the dealership told him the only 
way he could avoid  the excess mileage charge was for him to hand back the current  car and 
take out a new car, on a new finance agreement,  with a higher mileage allowance. 
In May 2017, the dealership arranged for Mr Rs finance agreement to be ended and he 
acquired a new car under  a new finance  agreement also with Hyundai. Mr R says he was 
told this new agreement  would be the same as his previous one, just with a higher mileage 
allowance. This time the cash price of the car was around £21,200. Mr R paid a £4,000 
deposit and the dealership contributed a further £1,000. The agreement  was again over 49 
months but with monthly repayments of around  £235. The final payment was around £7,200.
The following  year Mr R says he applied for a mortgage but wasnt offered a favourable rate. 
For this reason he looked through  his Hyundai finance paperwork to see when he could 
hand the car back. He said he couldnt  see any option in the agreement to hand the car back  
which is what he understood he could do with a PCP agreement.  Mr R says he then realised  
the second agreement wasnt a PCP agreement it was a fixed  sum loan agreement.
Mr R complained to Hyundai about the way these agreements had been sold to him. He said 
he had been misled about what they were and how they would work. He also complained 
about the second car lacking certain features he was promised it would have, as well as an 
issue with one of the seals failing in the car. Lastly,  he said the second agreement  was 
unaffordable for him. 
Ref: DRN50399572Hyundai didnt uphold  his complaint. In relation  to the first agreement  it said it didnt think  the 
dealership would have told Mr R that he could  amend the mileage allowance  at a later date. 
It said it believed the dealership had given Mr R clear information about  the nature of the 
second agreement  and Mr R understood what he was entering into. Hyundai said it carried  
out the appropriate affordability checks and there were no concerns  about Mr Rs ability to 
repay it. It said Mr R would need to take the car back  to the dealership  to investigate the 
issue with the seal but it offered £75 compensation for failing to respond to one of his emails.  
I sent Mr R and Hyundai my provisional  decision on 31 March  2020, explaining why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. 
Mr R accepted my provisional  decision but Hyundai didnt. In summary  it said:
It accepts  that Fixed  Sum Loan  agreements and Conditional Sale agreements  were 
different but it said both can have PCP options. The agreements Mr R entered into 
were PCP agreements and he had the rights of a PCP agreement.
It was Mr Rs responsibility to have read and understood all the terms of both 
agreements. As it stated  at the top of each agreement what type of finance it was, it 
would have been clear to Mr R what he was entering into. The agreements  did not 
look the same, the terms and conditions would have been different. 
It didnt agree that not enough was done to draw Mr Rs attention to the type of 
agreement he was entering into. He was given a pre-contract credit  explanation 
document which set out the key features. 
All PCP agreements are required to sign the Sales Agency Agreement as this sets 
out the terms of the PCP aspect of the agreement.  
The Conditional  Sale Agreement did have a mileage restriction as it was also a PCP 
agreement. 
Mr R couldnt have  terminated the Fixed  Sum Loan Agreement  as there  wasnt  an 
option to do so. 
Regardless of whether there  was a balloon payment, Mr R still had the option to hand  
back his car at the end of the agreement whether it was a Conditional Sale or Fixed 
Sum Loan agreement.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome I reached in my provisional  decision, and for the same reasons. Where  the 
evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as it is here  Ive based  my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened.
Hyundai accepts that the two agreements  Mr R entered  into were different and had different 
features. But it believes  it did enough to explain these features and that both were PCP 
agreements. I disagree and Ill explain  why. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision each finance agreement Mr R entered  into was 
different. One was a Conditional Sale agreement, the other a Fixed  Sum Loan agreement. 
Neither of these is a Hire Purchase agreement, which is what  both the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the Finance and Leasing Association appear to suggest is what  can, in some 
circumstances, be a PCP.  
Ref: DRN50399573Hyundai is relying on Mr R having entered into an entirely separate  agreement to the finance  
agreements at the time of sale  the Sales  Agency agreement  as to why these are PCP 
agreements. The Sales Agency agreement has its own terms and conditions,  but the 
underlying finance agreements are still capable of existing without it. This means that the 
Sales Agency agreement  doesnt alter what the terms of the finance agreement  are, how it 
operates or what  rights and obligations each party has. A perfect  example of this is the 
mileage restriction Hyundai has referred  to.
Hyundai says the Conditional Sale agreement had a mileage restriction. But as I explained  in 
my provisional decision, it doesnt.  And this only serves to highlight Hyundais lack of 
understanding of its own agreements  and why Im persuaded that Mr R was misled and 
misinformed when entering into these  agreements.  The Conditional Sale agreement has no 
mileage restriction within its terms and conditions.  Mr R could have driven  it hundreds of 
thousands of miles,  handed the car back before the final payment was due and not incurred 
any additional charges for the mileage  hed travelled. 
However, the Sales Agency  agreement,  which is a separate agreement, did have a mileage  
restriction. The only time this restriction could be enforced is if Mr R chose to hand  the car 
back via the terms and conditions of the Sales Agency agreement,  instead  of the terms and 
conditions of the Conditional Sale agreement. While  the Sales  Agency agreement  might 
have some of the hallmarks associated with a PCP finance agreement,  it isnt in itself a PCP 
finance agreement. It is a separate  contract  entirely. Mr R believed there was a mileage  
restriction on the Conditional Sale agreement, which Hyundai still also maintains. So Im 
satisfied Mr R was misinformed  about what his rights were under  the Conditional Sale 
agreement. 
While I understand that in entering into the agreements Mr R ought to have read and 
understood the terms he was agreeing to, this doesnt absolve Hyundai  and its agent  of its 
responsibilities under CONC  to give adequate  explanations. Based on everything  Ive set out 
here and in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied Mr R wasnt given an adequate explanation 
of the two agreements and its key features. I think this caused Mr R to enter into the second  
agreement when he otherwise wouldnt have done. 
Hyundai says Mr R couldnt  have  terminated  the Fixed  Sum Loan agreement  and I agree.  
But he could  have  terminated the Conditional  Sale agreement and this is what I think he 
would have done in 2018 if hed still had that agreement  instead of entering into the Fixed 
Sum Loan agreement. 
Hyundai says Mr R still had the option to hand  back the car at the end of the Fixed Sum 
Loan agreement. Ive already addressed this in detail  in my attached  provisional  decision, 
but I think its important  to highlight that he had no such right under that particular finance 
agreement. He could have instructed Hyundai to sell the car as his agent under the separate 
Sales Agency agreement. But this is different to the rights he would have had under a Hire 
Purchase or Conditional  Sale agreement. So it appears Hyundai is still unclear  as to the 
separate rights and obligations granted by the two separate agreements (the finance and the 
Sales Agency agreement). Im therefore  satisfied  it was unlikely  Mr R was given an 
adequate explanation of either finance  agreement or his rights and obligations under them.
As Im satisfied Mr R wouldnt have entered into the Fixed Sum Loan agreement  if hed been  
given adequate explanations during  the sale of both agreements,  I think its fair Hyundai now 
ends that agreement and takes  ownership of the car. Further, for the reasons Ive given in 
my provisional decision, I think Hyundai should refund the £4,000 deposit he paid to enter  
Ref: DRN50399574into the second agreement. Lastly it should also pay him £500 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  he has been  caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Hyundai Capital UK Limited 
to:
End the fixed sum loan agreement and take ownership of the car at no further cost to 
Mr R.
Refund Mr Rs £4,000 deposit, adding  8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr R £500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
If Hyundai considers tax should be deducted from the interest  element  of my award  it should  
provide Mr R with a certificate, showing how much tax its taken off so that Mr R can reclaim 
that amount,  if he is entitled to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50399575provisional findings
Both agreements were sold by the dealership on behalf of Hyundai.  One of the effects of Section 56 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 is that any representations  made by the credit broker (in this case 
the dealership) are made in their capacity as agent of the finance  provider (Hyundai). This means 
Hyundai can be held responsible  for the actions of the dealership when it brokered the finance 
agreements for Mr R. 
There has clearly been a great deal of confusion over what  agreements Mr R has taken out. Mr R 
says he believed  he was taking out PCP agreements and says hes since found out the second 
agreement wasnt a PCP.  Hyundai appears to say both agreements are PCP agreements. So I think  it 
would be helpful if I firstly set out what  I understand a PCP agreement  to be and what  each of the 
agreements Mr R entered into were. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority in its work on motor finance1 describes a PCP as a form of hire 
purchase. It says that the key feature  of a PCP is that the value of the car at the end of the contract is 
assessed at the start of the agreement  and deferred, resulting in lower monthly repayments. PCPs  
provide the flexibility to own the car at the end of the agreement by paying the deferred value 
(Guaranteed Future Value,  GFV), or to enter into a new agreement (using any equity  built up over 
the course of the existing  agreement). The consumer  also has the option to simply give the car back, 
but they will often incur  any excess mileage and/or damage cost.  Consumers may also be 
approached prior to the conclusion of their PCP agreement with the offer of entering into a new 
agreement, if equity  has been built up.
I note the Finance and Leasing  Association, of which Hyundai are a member, also describes PCP 
agreements as a form of hire purchase2. The first agreement Mr R entered  into was a conditional sale 
agreement and the second was a fixed sum loan agreement.  So neither agreement was a hire 
purchase agreement. 
A conditional  sale agreement is different  to a hire purchase agreement  and the difference  is succinctly 
defined by Professor  Goode in Consumer Credit  Law and Practice  Whereas a conditional  sale 
agreement not only obliges  the seller to sell but commits the buyer to buy, a hire-purchase agreement  
is a contract of hire under which the hirer has an option, but not an obligation, to buy.  So the 
conditional sale agreement  traditionally had different obligations in it to that of a PCP/hire purchase 
agreement. 
However, modern conditional sale agreements are often structured in a way that means  they have 
very similar exit options  to those found in hire purchase agreements.  So any detriment to a consumer 
is, in most  cases,  unlikely to be significant  if they were given a conditional sale agreement  instead of a 
hire purchase agreement. Of course that will ultimately be dependent  on how any individual 
agreement is structured.  For example, and as Ive set out below, some of the features of the 
conditional sale agreement  provided to Mr R arent traditionally features of a hire purchase 
agreement.  
A fixed sum loan agreement is distinctly different to both a hire purchase agreement  and a conditional 
sale agreement. With a fixed  sum loan, ownership of the car passes to the consumer at the time the 
agreement is entered into. This means that a consumer doesnt have the option to return the car at 
the end of the agreement.  However, some fixed sum loan agreements  do include a buy back  option.  
Mr Rs agreement  didnt include this option, but there was a separate  agency sales agreement he 
signed, which  operated in a similar way. 
Hyundai says that its conditional sale agreement is a form of PCP. I can see there are features  of the 
agreement, contained on an addendum sales agency  agreement, which  on first reading are similar to 
those that might be found in a PCP agreement.  This is because like with a PCP, the sales agency 
agreement has a mileage allowance  and what appears to be a guaranteed  future  value  for the car. It 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/news/news-stories/our-work-motor-finance
2 https://www.fla.org.uk/about-us/faqs/what-finance-options-are-available-when-buying-from-motor/
Ref: DRN50399576is also labelled PCP at the top of the agreement. But this doesnt form part of the credit agreement. It 
is a separate agreement  entirely,  so the existence  of the sales agency agreement doesnt make Mr 
Rs conditional  sale or fixed sum loan agreement  a PCP. Instead, it appears to be a separate  contract  
which allows Mr R to sell the car back  to Hyundai should he choose to. Ill explore in more detail what  
this means for Mr Rs two agreements later in the decision.   
Another key difference between a fixed sum loan and a PCP/hire  purchase agreement  or conditional  
sale agreement is that there is no option  to voluntarily  terminate the agreement. This statutory right is 
set out in section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act. Broadly speaking, voluntary termination  means that 
it is open  to the consumer to give the car back at any point before  the final payment and have liability 
capped at one half of the total price  of the agreement. Voluntary termination doesnt apply to fixed  
sum loans. This means that a consumer  cannot therefore hand back  the car and limit their liability at 
any time before the final payment.
Its clear therefore that there were distinct differences between  each agreement that Mr R took out 
with Hyundai. With this in mind I think theres one key overarching question  I need to consider in order 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  which is:
Bearing in mind  the key features and obligations of the finance agreements, were these  made  
sufficiently clear to Mr R? 
oIf not, did Hyundai  (and/or  its agent on its behalf) act unfairly or unreasonable in 
providing Mr R with either agreement? 
In deciding whether Hyundai has acted fairly Ive also kept in mind the Principles for Business  set out 
in PRIN 2.1 in the FCAs Handbook. In particular,  Principle 7 which says A firm must  pay due regard 
to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear,  
fair and not misleading. Ive also considered  the rules and guidance within  the Consumer  Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular CONC 4.2 regarding pre-contract disclosure and adequate 
explanations. 
Sale of the first agreement
The first agreement Mr R took out was a conditional  sale agreement which was sold as a PCP. The 
conditional sale agreement  included a voluntary termination clause which allowed Mr R to terminate  
the agreement at any time before the final payment. Doing so would cap his liability to a minimum of 
half the price under the agreement.  But both Mr R and Hyundai say the agreement had an annual  
mileage allowance  of 6,000 miles. This meant that for any additional miles  Mr R had driven above that 
allowance hed need to pay 14.9p per mile.  
Mr R says he only agreed to take out this agreement because  he was given assurances that he could  
increase the mileage allowance at a later date. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think its 
more likely  than not Mr R was told this. I say this because Mr R has been credible  and consistent in 
what he says happened,  but crucially his actions and the wider evidence  also support what he says 
he was told. 
I can see Mr R did approach Hyundai  to request the mileage limit be increased and when he was told 
this wasnt  possible he took things up with the dealership. Hyundais contact notes show Mr R 
explained that hed been  told by the dealership he could increase his allowance. 
I accept there was a sizeable gap between Mr Rs contact with Hyundai  and when  the second finance 
agreement was incepted. But Mr R has given a plausible  explanation for this delay. Hes explained  
that he did attempt to resolve  things with the dealership  initially but they declined to help him. Mr R 
says he complained a second time to the dealership when he realised  his mileage costs would  be too 
excessive. 
Mr R has also been consistent and credible  about why he needed  a higher annual allowance than 
6,000 miles. Given his financial situation at the time and his specific needs for the car, I believe its 
Ref: DRN50399577more likely  than not he would have told the dealership about his specific requirements, both in terms 
of cost and usage. 
Although I cant know for certain how the salesperson explained the features  of the agreement  and 
what could or couldnt be possible. Based on Mr Rs specific circumstances, 
his subsequent actions  and what the agreement says, I think  its more likely  than not he was at least  
given misleading or incomplete (if not incorrect) information about the mileage allowance and the key 
features of the agreement. 
I say this because the conditional sale agreement doesnt actually have a mileage allowance at all. Mr 
R could have  driven  as many miles  as he wanted without paying anything extra. And as it seems both 
parties have  said there was a mileage allowance, its more likely Mr R was misled. 
The reason both parties  appear to think there was a mileage limitation is due to the fact Mr R signed a 
separate sales agency agreement with Hyundai  at the same time, and its this agreement that has 
the mileage allowance. 
The sales agency agreement  sets out that there is a 6,000 miles  per annum  allowance. And if Mr R 
were to exceed that allowance, Hyundai would apply  a charge of 14.9 pence per mile. So I can see 
why Mr R assumed  and it appears  Hyundai and its agent also assumed  the conditional sale 
agreement had a mileage allowance attached to it. But the sales agency agreement  is a separate  
agreement entirely. 
The sales agency agreement  is a contract between Mr R and Hyundai that sets out that Hyundai will 
guarantee to sell the car at the end of the conditional  sale agreement  for him  if he wants them to. If 
hed exceeded the mileage allowance,  the agreement entitled Hyundai to deduct those charges from 
the overall sales price it achieved. 
But as the finance  agreement Mr R had entered into was a conditional sale agreement, it included a 
right to voluntary termination  and to hand back the car at any time before  the final payment. So there  
was no need for him to instruct Hyundai  to sell the car  it already belonged to Hyundai, not Mr R. For 
this reason, I dont understand why Mr R was asked to sign and enter into the sales agency 
agreement at all. It seems  it had no benefit  to Mr R and it appears  this documentation  is what has 
caused confusion both to Mr R and Hyundais  agent  as to what Mr Rs rights under  the conditional  
sale agreement actually were. 
Ive noted that when Mr R contacted Hyundai to request  an increase to his mileage allowance, 
Hyundais notes indicated they told him that wasnt possible. So it appears even Hyundai  didnt 
correctly inform Mr R what his rights were  under the agreement. It should  have told him there was no 
limit rather than simply saying he couldnt  increase a non-existent one. 
So taking everything into account,  I dont think  Hyundais  agent brokered the first agreement  with 
sufficient care nor acted fairly towards Mr R. Had Mr R been given accurate information, he would 
never have  needed to query mileage usage or request to increase it. He would  have been able to 
drive the car as much as he wanted and decide later whether to hand it back  or buy it outright. 
Instead, hes now entered into a second agreement, which hes paid £4,000 to enter into and has 
entirely different rights  and obligations. 
Ive also noted that the invoice Mr Rs provided  appears to suggest he carried over some negative  
equity into his new agreement, specifically £1,476.96. So hes paid this negative  equity using the 
deposit he put forward. 
For all these  reasons I dont  think the nature  of the conditional sale agreement  and its key features 
were made clear to Mr R. I dont think it acted fairly or reasonably in providing the conditional sale 
agreement to Mr R. This is because he wasnt able to make an informed decision about when to end 
the agreement and he felt forced  into agreeing to enter into a new agreement at further expense to 
him. 
Ref: DRN50399578Sale of the second agreement
Mr R says he wasnt aware he was entering into a fixed sum loan agreement when he took out the 
second agreement. He says he thought this was a PCP agreement just like the first one. Hyundai 
maintain that this is a PCP agreement, its just that it is a fixed sum loan PCP rather  than a conditional  
sale PCP.  
Hyundais stance on this demonstrates  that I think Mr R was likely given  incorrect and/or misleading 
information about the nature  of the second  agreement.  And this is because Hyundai  appears to 
accept it would have sold this agreement as a PCP agreement. But as Ive already set out earlier  in 
this decision, this was not a PCP agreement.  And in any event the rights and obligations were  
significantly different between this agreement and the conditional sale agreement  Mr R had originally. 
Hyundai says that Mr Rs rights arent fundamentally different under the fixed sum loan agreement  
because he can still hand back the car at the end. But I disagree. As Ive already explained,  under a 
fixed sum loan agreement  Mr R was the owner of the car, not Hyundai. The fixed sum loan agreement  
also didnt include any voluntary termination  rights, so Mr R couldnt hand  the car back at any time 
before the final payment  and cap his liability  to a minimum of half the price  of the agreement. 
Ancillary to this fixed sum loan agreement there is a separate  sales agency agreement  just like 
there was with the first agreement   between Hyundai and Mr R. In summary, it sets out that Mr R can 
instuct Hyundai to act as his agent  in selling the car for him instead of paying the balloon payment. 
The agreement guarantees him a minimum  sales figure assuming he has kept the car in good 
condition and driven less than the agreed mileage allowance. But this isnt the same as the rights Mr 
R would have  had under  a conditional sale or hire purchase agreement. 
Firstly, the sales agency  agreement says Hyundai can deduct its costs  in arranging the sale as well 
as taking a commission payment for the sale. But if Mr R had a conditional sale or hire purchase 
agreement he wouldnt  have to pay Hyundai for its costs in selling  the car nor have a deduction for 
commission. He also wouldnt be limited  to handing the car back to Hyundai  only at the end of the 
agreement. 
So I think the nature of the fixed  sum loan agreement was fundamentally different to the conditional 
sale agreement Mr R had initially. It also affected what statutory rights he had to end the agreement 
early and there were significant implications as to who the legal owner of the car was. I think  all of this 
should have been made clear to him at the outset.  Hyundais agent ought to have carefully drawn to 
his attention the differences  these two agreements had and what this meant in terms of his rights.  But 
Im not persuaded  that happened. 
I say this because Mr R says he was told by the dealership the agreement was the same as his 
previous one, just for a different car and monthly repayment. He says it was described to him as a 
PCP agreement   which is what he understood the previous agreement to be. 
Hyundai has also described both agreements as PCP agreements even after the complaint has been 
raised. It doesnt  appear to have thought carefully  enough about  the differences between the two 
agreements, nor what the regulator considers  a PCP agreement to be, and has simply said Mr R can 
still hand  the car back at the end of the fixed sum loan agreement. It says he therefore hasnt lost out. 
But as Ive set out above, this is not the reality of the situation. There  are significant differences  
between the two agreements.  So Im persuaded that how Mr R has described  the sale of the second 
agreement is likely  to be accurate. 
Im aware the finance agreement he signed doesnt say PCP on it and it describes it as a fixed sum 
loan agreement. But regardless of whether  Mr R saw this or not, I dont think  stating fixed sum loan on 
the top of the agreement is in itself sufficient to say Hyundai did enough to draw to Mr Rs attention  to 
the fundamental differences in this agreement compared to his previous one. 
Ref: DRN50399579This is because Im satisfied  he was told it was a PCP agreement during  the sales process and would  
have broadly the same  terms as the previous agreement. It seems Mr R understood PCP to mean  a 
hire purchase agreement, which had rights to hand  the car back  at any time before the final payment. 
I dont think there was anything immediately obvious  within the agreement  that ought to have made 
him suspect  what he was told might not be true. 
The first page of each agreement looks almost identical. The layout is identical and where information  
is found  is in the same  place.  The only difference being the specific financial  figures  used and the 
name of the agreement  at the top. I think even if Mr R had scrutinised the agreement  in 2017, it would  
have looked the same as his previous  one  it just had a different name. Its important to note at this 
point his previous agreement  said conditional sale agreement, it too didnt mention PCP. So when he 
was told it was the same as his last agreement, I dont  think he acted unreasonably in accepting  that 
to be true.  
Mr R also signed the sales agency agreement which  gave  a guaranteed future  value for the car at the 
end of the agreement  and a mileage allowance. But Mr R signed  an identical sales agency agreement 
when he entered into the conditional sale agreement  albeit with different figures. So this further 
document wouldnt  have caused him to question the information  the sales person gave him about his 
rights under the new agreement.  This is because everything  did seem identical. 
Lastly, as I set out earlier, Mr R only entered into this second agreement because he was led to 
believe hed be liable for an excess mileage charge on his first agreement. So taking everything into 
account I dont think Hyundai or its agent made the nature  of the fixed  sum loan clear. I also dont 
think it acted fairly or reasonably  when it provided Mr R with the fixed sum loan agreement. 
Before considering how best to put things right, Ive also thought about the other issues  Mr R has 
raised, including that the second agreement wasnt affordable and that the car was misrepresented to 
him and it had a faulty seal. 
Affordability of the second agreement
Ive taken into consideration  the rules  and guidance  for lenders in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) within the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  Handbook. This sets out that Hyundai was required 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to sustainably repay  the 
borrowing. This is often referred  to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. 
There arent set things  a lender needed to do when carrying out an affordability assessment. But it 
needed to ensure that the check was borrower-focused. This means  it needed to be concerned with 
Mr Rs specific circumstances  and whether he could  afford the borrowing, rather than how statistically 
likely he was to repay it. The checks it completed needed to be proportionate to the situation.  Whats 
considered proportionate  will vary depending on (but not limited to):
The amount being borrowed and the total repayable
The size of the regular  repayments
The cost of the borrowing
The consumers  financial and other circumstances
Hyundai says it asked Mr R what his income  was and carried out a credit check. It said as he had 
good credit  there  was no need to carry out further checks. But I dont think  Hyundais initial 
assessment of affordability was proportionate or reasonable. 
It only relied on Mr Rs self-declared income  and a credit  check. Given that the total amount repayable 
on this loan was around £23,500 this was a significant commitment to make.  This was also a long 
term commitment as the agreement was for 49 months. So I would  have expected Hyundai when 
carrying out a proportionate, borrower-focused  assessment to think about whether Mr R could 
sustainably repay the borrowing. 
Ref: DRN503995710So I would have expected Hyundai to do more, such as verify  Mr Rs income and explore his other 
expenditure commitments  before agreeing to approve the loan. But had it done so, I think  its likely it 
would have still approved the loan anyway.  Ill explain why. 
Hyundai hasnt provided us with a copy of the credit check it carried out so I havent been able to see 
what information  it had. But Mr R has provided  a copy of his credit report  to us. Although  I cant  be 
certain the same information  would  have been available to Hyundai, I think its most likely to be 
similar. 
Mr Rs credit file shows that he wasnt overcommitted  with other debts at the time. And any credit 
accounts he did have   which  wasnt  many  were  maintained well. He had some running account  
credit accounts such as credit cards  but the monthly balances were generally very low. So I agree 
with Hyundai when it says Mr Rs credit file didnt  show anything to suggest  he was struggling 
financially or might struggle with this further borrowing. 
However, the credit  file doesnt show everything that might  be relevant to Mr Rs expenditure. Hes 
provided us with copies of his bank statements in the months leading  up to the lending decision.  Im 
not suggesting  Hyundai was required to ask for bank statements, but in the absence  of any other 
information it might have  gathered, I think this gives a good indication  of what it would have likely  
found out, if it had explored Mr Rs expenditure in more  detail. 
Mr Rs bank statements  show  that he appeared to be managing his finances well and the income he 
declared on the application  was accurate.  From  what Ive seen  the additional cost of the second 
agreement wouldnt  have caused Mr R financial  difficulty.  But I accept it would have left him with less 
disposable income  each  month. This on its own however isnt enough  to say the lending was 
unaffordable or unsustainable to him.
Ive also taken  into consideration that he was able to put forward  a £4,000 deposit which didnt come 
from other borrowing.  And it appears  hes been able to continue maintaining the monthly  repayments 
without having to resort  to further borrowing. This suggests he has been able to sustainably repay.
Lastly, under a fixed sum loan agreement Mr R is required to pay the balloon payment. He doesnt 
have the option not to. As this was a significant amount to pay in one go, I would have ordinarily 
expected Hyundai  to thoroughly assess how Mr R was going to be able to pay that in one lump  sum. 
However, in this case Mr R did sign a separate sales agency  agreement which essentially guaranteed  
that Hyundai would sell the car for him before the balloon  payment became  repayable   if he chose to 
take that option. So for that reason I dont think Hyundai had to specifically think  about  affordability for 
the balloon payment as Mr R had the option not to pay it, if he couldnt afford it. And therefore  it 
doesnt change the outcome  Ive reached about affordability.  
Overall, I dont think Hyundai carried  out a proportionate or reasonable  assessment of Mr Rs ability to 
repay. But despite  that, I dont think Mr R has lost out as a result of that failure. This is because  had a 
proportionate and reasonable  assessment  been conducted its more  likely  than not Hyundai would  still 
have lent and that lending decision would  have been a reasonable one. 
Misrepresentation of the second car
Mr R says that when the salesperson took him on a test drive he explained  a number of features that 
the car had. This included automatic rain sensors,  all-wheel  drive and different driving modes. Mr R 
said this made the car feel more premium than it otherwise  would have been.  He said he later found 
out the car didnt have  these features at all. 
Given everything else that happened during the sales of the two agreements, Im more inclined to 
believe that Mr R was told the car had these  features when it didnt. But despite  that, I dont think it 
makes any difference  to the overall outcome.  
Ref: DRN503995711This is because for me to say Hyundai ought to do something to put things right,  Id first have to be 
satisfied that there  has been a misrepresentation. A misrepresentation needs to have two elements. 
The first is that there  needs  to be a false  statement  of fact  such as the car had certain  features  
when it didnt.  Im satisfied that first part is met. But the second is that Mr R relied on those false  
statements and it was those  false statements  that induced him to enter into this contract when he 
otherwise wouldnt have. Im not persuaded thats the case here. 
Mr R told us that whilst these features werent that important to me, they were features which  I were 
(sic) sold and look (sic) forward to using. As Mr R has accepted these features  were a nice to have 
rather than something he had to have  for a very specific reason, Im not satisfied the false  statements 
that were made  have caused him to act any differently than he otherwise  would have.  
Mr R says the sale was conducted in a high pressure environment and he was most concerned  with 
avoiding paying an excess mileage charge on his previous  agreement. So I think that concern  would 
always have been more important than any additional  features on the next car. 
I do however accept Mr R has suffered some loss of expectation in what he would  be getting  and this 
would have been disappointing for him, particularly  with everything else that has happened. And Ill 
take this into consideration  when thinking overall about what a fair and reasonable remedy would be 
to put things  right. 
Problems with the seal
Mr R has given us very little information about the issue with the seal other than to say it started  to 
deteriorate following  the dealership servicing  the car. While I dont doubt Mr R that is exactly what has 
happened, that on its own isnt enough to say Hyundai should be responsible for putting things right.  
Ive had in mind Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015  
when deciding  whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Hyundai to carry out a repair. In 
summary, if Mr R can show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him then he 
could bring a claim for breach of contract against Hyundai  providing certain conditions are met 
(which for completeness, Im satisfied  they are). 
Mr R says the seal only started deteriorating after the dealership serviced  the car. Hes said the 
dealership caused the issue. This means it isnt an issue of whether  the car was of satisfactory quality  
or not, but simply whether or not the dealership has caused damage to it at a later date.  As it seems  
the car was of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied, this later issue with the seal isnt something I 
could fairly hold Hyundai responsible for. But subject to any overall remedy he might  receive from this 
complaint, he may wish to direct  his complaint about the seal to the dealership if he thinks theyve 
caused the damage. 
Putting things right
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied  Hyundai  and its agent didnt make clear  the nature  of either  finance  
agreement. Ive also explained why I didnt think it acted fairly and reasonably in approving either 
agreement. In both instances I think it either didnt give enough information and it gave misleading 
and/or inaccurate  information  about  the nature of both agreements. As one agreement has ended  and 
negative equity  has rolled into the other, as well as Mr R having a type of agreement  he didnt want, 
putting things right isnt straightforward.  
In deciding what fair redress should be, Ive thought about what  Mr R has paid overall during the two 
agreements and what  he might have done differently had he been given correct  information about the 
agreements. 
It seems likely that Mr R would probably have  always entered into the first agreement  had he been 
given clear information.  This is because  there was no mileage restriction and hes said the monthly 
repayments were affordable to him. So it appears it had all the features he wanted  and was expecting  
Ref: DRN503995712from a finance agreement  he just didnt  know it, because  of the poor way Hyundai and its agent  
brokered it. Instead,  Mr R had to pay an additional  £4,000 to Hyundai  to come out of the agreement 
early, £1,476.96 of which was to pay off negative equity from the old agreement  that he shouldnt 
have had to pay. 
Had Mr R stayed in the original agreement he would  have  likely  opted  for voluntary termination when 
he was looking to secure his mortgage in 2018. This would have meant he could  have likely handed  
the car back at no further cost (assuming the car had been kept in good condition). But given the 
agreement hes now in, he cant hand the car back until the end  and even then it would be at an 
additional cost as set out in the sales  agency agreement, which doesnt seem fair. 
So taking everything into account I think the fairest  solution  here is to allow Mr R to end the fixed sum 
loan agreement and for Hyundai to take ownership of the car at no further cost to him. I also think  
Hyundai should refund the £4,000 deposit he paid to enter  into the second agreement  adding 8% 
simple interest  per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  This is because  Mr R 
would never  have entered into the second agreement if he had been given accurate information about  
the nature of both agreements. 
However, Mr R has had the benefit of using both cars so I do think he ought to pay fair usage cost for 
their hire. I realise he had faced an increased  cost in his monthly  outgoings  when he entered into the 
second agreement. But he did receive a more expensive  car in return for those  payments  and I have 
to take into account hes had the benefit of driving it. Overall, I think the monthly repayments he has 
been paying for both cars represent a fair price for usage. So Im not planning on recommending  
Hyundai refund any of the monthly repayments. 
Mr R has had a stressful and worrying experience when dealing with both agreements. Hes 
frequently been given misleading or incorrect information about what his rights and liabilities under  the 
agreements are. And it appears he was led into taking  out an agreement  that was unsuitable for his 
needs which has prevented  him from doing what he wanted to do. 
Hes told us this has caused him problems  in obtaining a mortgage for the value he needed due to the 
amount of existing credit  that he had. This could have potentially been avoided if he could have 
voluntarily terminated the agreement  as he thought he could. Hes clearly been very upset by 
everything thats happened  to him and its disrupted his plans and living circumstances over a 
prolonged period of time. 
Im also mindful  that I cant be certain Mr R would  have been  able to secure the mortgage  he needed 
even if things  had gone as they should  have.  So taking  everything into account  and for the reasons  
Ive already set out in my provisional decision, I think Hyundai should  also pay him a further £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused. 
Ref: DRN5039957