K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund unauthorised transactions
from his account.
Background
Mr B said his ex-wife transferred £79,959.25 from his sole account with Barclays  to their joint 
account with another  business,  using  his online banking details. She then withdrew  
£44,423.07 for her sole use. He said he hadnt consented to the transfers and he didnt know 
she had made them  as he was in hospital  at the time. 
He asked Barclays for a refund.
Barclays wouldnt agree  to a refund. Originally, it said it didnt believe the transfers were
made fraudulently and, as Mr B and his ex-wife were divorcing, he could recover  the money 
in the divorce  court.  Subsequently, it said he was grossly negligent by not keeping  his bank
card and online banking  details safe.
As Mr B didnt agree  with Barclays decision, he asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint. He didnt agree  that Mr B had been grossly
negligent and recommended  that Barclays refund the money with interest.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators view and so the case came  to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2020. I decided that that the subject matter  
of Mr Bs complaint  the money that his wife had taken  had been fully dealt with on the 
merits by the divorce court. And I explained that this service could have dismissed his 
complaint under our rules  from the outset and without any consideration of the evidence 
because there was a final order by the court. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Barclays said it had no further comments to make.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional conclusions. In summary, Mr B said the court  hearing  
was not a full merits hearing because the judge  didnt consider  the money in his Barclays 
accounts (and two other accounts  in his sole name) as there was an ongoing police 
investigation. He said the terms of the court order were based only on his financial 
contribution to his wifes business and to the refurbishment of a property which  his parents-
in-law owned. Mr B also sent in extensive  financial documents detailing his contribution  to 
his wifes business and the property which his parents-in-law owned.
Mr B has asked  me to review my provisional decision.
This case has now come back to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN57858542My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the additional evidence from Mr B, which include a letter from his 
solicitor. Im sorry  to say that I havent seen  anything new to change my earlier decision. In 
fact, based on the solicitors letter,  Im more convinced that there was a full merits hearing 
before the court. I will set out the reasons for my decision. These will include a repeat of my 
provisional conclusions  as they form part of my reasoning. 
The subject matter  of Mr Bs complaint is the money  that his wife removed from his sole 
account with Barclays. This money was also one of the matters before the judge in the 
divorce court. The money was a part of a larger figure of £167,500, which he held in three  
sole accounts and which he said his ex-wife had stolen.
In his pleadings dated 17 May 2018, Mr B says at paragraphs k n and q:
his wife was present  when he set up online banking and created passwords
he trusted his wife and didnt  think  she would  withdraw money from his account  or 
their joint account  (a reference to his claim that she stole money from him)
he said she removed £170,000 from their joint account.
I think its clear, therefore, that his complaint  about  her stealing money from him was a key 
argument in his claim for financial relief and was more than background or historical 
information.
In the skeleton  arguments  dated 10 September 2018, he refers again to the unauthorised 
transfers and cash  withdrawals and submits  that the evidence  shows  improper dealings  by 
his ex-wife in relation  to his savings. Importantly,  his final submissions  were:
If there were no issue regarding his savings,  then the starting point would be an 
equal division  of the stables (which they owned  jointly).
However, given the dealings  in relation to his savings, the proper  order is the outright 
transfer of the stables  to Mr B and a clean break.
Lastly, Ive read the final court order dated  12 September  2018.  The order  states  that,
after consideration of the documents lodged by the parties. [the ex-wife] must  
transfer to Mr B all her legal and beneficial estate in the stables.
Both parties  claims for financial relief were dismissed. In other words, there was a clean 
break. And Mr B got what he requested in his skeleton arguments.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr B replied that the judge  didnt consider the money 
in his three sole accounts and that the transfer  of the stables was based on his financial 
contribution to that business and to the refurbishment of a property owned by his parents-in- 
law. However, this is at odds with the letter from his solicitor.
The letter from Mr Bs solicitor explained that there wasnt a prepared  transcript  of the 
hearing. However, her assistant had taken notes. According to the notes, the judge did 
consider his ex-wifes  conduct and the money  which Mr B claimed  she had removed from his 
Ref: DRN57858543sole accounts and their joint account. The notes  record  the judge  as saying it would be 
inequitable for him [the judge]  to disregard her conduct and that:
I find [the ex-wife] did remove approaching £167,000.00 often in large cash 
amounts without husband's consent plus a further £70,000.00 for her own 
business plus associated  costs. Husband doesn't say the whole  of £400,000.00  
taken but stripping way the monies  referred to, that leaves a substantial short fall 
of monies held by husband. Total of something  like £315,000.00 has been 
removed plus used  by wife without consent or prior knowledge. This wasn't  mere  
recklessness of being unable to control her expenditure. It was a deliberate 
course of action by wife.
I am satisfied husband  brought in substantial capital which  has been taken from 
him by wife and I am satisfied some  part of that money must be available to her 
given the size of the monies. Wifes contribution of acquisition from her parents 
gifted to the parties before they were married. (Italics added).
The solicitor  also stated  that the basis for the court order was the transfer of the stables plus 
land to the husband worth £118,000.  The judge said,  that awards him £59,000 of wifes  
assets set against  £315,000 wife has removed. The notes record that the judge commented 
that that is a fair outcome of all the circumstances.  (Emphasis added).
Lastly, the solicitor  said that she could find no record of the judge ruling that the £167,500 
taken from Mr Bs sole accounts was not part of the hearing at that time. (This figure  
includes the money in his Barclays account).
Ive carefully considered  this additional information. Im afraid I think  it shows there  was a full 
hearing on the merits and, importantly, that the judge took into account the money which  Mr 
Bs ex wife removed from his accounts,  including the Barclays account. Im satisfied, 
therefore, that the subject matter of this complaint  has been  fully considered by a court and 
that Mr B had the opportunity to recover the money at court. And Mr B accepted the final 
court decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  this service could have dismissed Mr Bs complaint 
under the rules which govern this service. The FCA Dispute Rules  3.3.4(8) say that I may 
dismiss a complaint if the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court 
proceedings where there has been a decision on the merits. But as an investigation had 
begun it was too late to do so.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr B. As I said in my provisional decision,  the 
court is a higher authority and this service  cannot go behind  a court order.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Ref: DRN57858544Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5785854