K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies for their mortgage.
background
In 1995, Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage  with Halifax, and also took out a PPI policy to 
cover their repayments in case Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
In 1996, Mr and Mrs M took out a further advance,  and replaced their PPI policy  with a new 
one to cover  the higher repayments.  This policy covered  them both, in case  either  Mr or 
Mrs M was off work  sick or lost their job.
Mr and Mrs M paid for each policy with regular  monthly premiums,  which  did not attract  
interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policies  werent mis-sold  here  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms 1995 mortgage application  had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of 
what the policy was for, and only recommended  they thought about it. The form then asked if 
Mr and Mrs M wanted PPI or not, and its recorded  they said yes. Below it was noted  what  
benefit they wanted, and that they wanted it to cover Mr M only. Then Mr M signed and 
submitted a form specifically to apply for PPI. This was done separately to applying for the 
mortgage itself,  and the form set out the PPIs cost separately from the mortgages cost, 
rather than as something that was necessarily included.
Then in 1996,  I can see that Mr and Mrs M submitted an application  for their new PPI policy.  
Again, the form set out the PPIs cost separately  to the cost of the secured lending,  and not 
as something they had to take.  It had a questionnaire which  recorded that Mr and Mrs M had 
checked they were  eligible for the insurance.  Mr and Mrs M both signed  specifically for PPI.
Overall, I think that Halifax made  Mr and Mrs M aware they had a choice about  buying the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer 
recall doing so after so many  years.
Ref: DRN55552932Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check both policies  were  right 
for them. And based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think they were. 
For example, neither  Mr nor Mrs M seems to have been affected  by any of the policies  main  
exclusions or limitations. While they had some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of those,  and wouldve covered them  for significantly longer. And they dont  seem  
to have had any other  benefits or insurance in case one of them lost their job, which  
potentially left them at serious risk.
Mr and Mrs M said they also had some savings, though  the documents from the time record 
the value of those savings  as being  much  less than Mr and Mrs M now recall.  In any case,  if 
one of them had lost their job or their sick pay ran out, those savings wouldve been needed 
to cover all the bills and expenses their salary  was paying  not just the mortgage  so the 
savings wouldnt have  lasted that long. And the PPI meant Mr and Mrs M could protect  their 
savings and use them for other things. Further, the mortgage was a significant, long-term 
commitment, and there was no guarantee the savings  would still be there in the years to 
come. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs M fell behind on their secured lending  
repayments, they couldve lost their home.  I think the PPI couldve been useful for them in 
protecting their home and giving  some  peace of mind.  
In both sales, the cost of the policy was set out clearly on the PPI application, alongside  
what it could pay out in a claim. So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve understood how much 
they would  need to pay for PPI, and what its benefit was, before they agreed to it.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I said above,  Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5555293