K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont extend the term of his interest only mortgage  
which has matured.
background
Mr S took out an interest only mortgage  in 2006 for a term of ten years with HSBC.  Mr S 
believes that he would have been  able to pay lump sums off his mortgage  from his business. 
But Mr Ss sole trader  business  didnt do as well as he expected. So Mr S wasnt  able to pay 
the mortgage off at maturity. Mr S says that HSBC suggested that he put his property up for 
sale which he did and it extended  the mortgage  term by two years. In 2018  Mr S tried to get 
a mortgage with another lender but this was refused as the start up business he was 
involved in was showing a loss. Mr S took the property off the market and was paying  off the 
interest on the mortgage and £700  off the capital balance. Mr S would  like the mortgage  
term to run indefinitely and he could pay off the capital as he could afford  to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have already explained to Mr S that we are unable to consider a separate  complaint in 
relation to the possible mis-selling of this interest only mortgage. This complaint relates to 
whether HSBC has dealt  fairly with Mr S now that the term of his interest only mortgage has 
expired. Mr S is in business and involved in a new company and a new product which  he 
sees great potential for. Mr S would like HSBC to extend his current  mortgage indefinitely as 
he has never missed a payment. Mr S hopes  that if the business is successful the income or 
dividends would allow him to invest for a long term pension and then if there  is enough cash 
left over he would  pay off the mortgage capital. Mr S is clear that he doesnt  want all his 
eggs in one basket with a capital and interest  repayment mortgage as he doesnt want to be 
a home  owner  from age 60.
HSBC has an agreement  with Mr S that required  the capital to be repaid in 2016. We would 
expect HSBC to be sympathetic  to Mr S if he was unable  to pay it off on that date and work 
with Mr S to see how it could be paid off in a reasonable period. HSBC has already agreed 
two formal extensions  for two years and then for a further six months and this period has 
extended further. I understand that the extensions were to allow Mr S to sell the property and 
repay the mortgage which didnt happen. Presently Mr S wants an indefinite extension to the 
mortgage term and has been overpaying the interest which  means that some of the capital 
has been repaid.  
But Mr Ss agreement was to repay the capital in 2016 and it seems  that HSBC  has been  
sympathetic since that date in not requiring the immediate repayment of what  it was due 
then. Although some overpayments off the capital  are being made,  these have resulted in Mr 
Ss credit card balances  increasing so they may not be sustainable in the longer term. This 
would suggest  that continuing  the mortgage  on this basis wouldnt be in Mr Ss best 
interests.  Mr S has no current proposals  to repay  the capital or evidence  that he has the 
means of repaying  it. Mr S indeed has indicated that any surplus  income he has will firstly be 
allocated towards  a pension and not towards capital repayment. In those circumstances I 
Ref: DRN59751052dont believe  that I can fairly require HSBC  to give a further extension to this mortgage and 
so I dont uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5975105