K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The policy provided accident, sickness  and unemployment cover  for Mr F only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I sent Mr and Mrs F and Bank of Scotland my provisional decision on 11 December 2018 
explaining why I wasnt intend to uphold  the complaint. I said that before I made my final 
decision Id consider anything further  the parties wanted to send me, so long as I received it 
before 11 January 2019.
Neither Mr and Mrs F nor Bank of Scotland have sent me any further points  for me to 
consider in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ive set out my reasons  again below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  because:
Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide paperwork  to show how the MPPI was 
presented to Mr and Mrs F at the time. I dont think this is surprising given how long ago 
the policy  was sold to Mr and Mrs F. For the same reason, I wouldnt necessarily  
expected Mr and Mrs Fs recollection  of the sale to be that detailed. Ive carefully 
considered what  Mr and Mrs F have said, including  that they felt pressured to take out the 
PPI, but I just dont  think theres enough evidence  to say this is what most  likely 
happened. Overall  I think  its most likely that Bank  of Scotland made Mr and Mrs F aware  
that they had a choice about  buying  the MPPI, and that they chose to take it.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI  to Mr F, and it seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time. Ive particularly  
considered what  Mr and Mrs F have said about Mr Fs sick pay entitlement  and their 
savings in this regard. However,  Im not convinced  Mr F wouldve been entitled to full sick 
pay for six months, and I can see that in the questionnaire  they completed for 
Bank of Scotland they said Mr Fs sick pay entitlement at the time was full pay for three 
months followed  by half pay for three months. And whilst I accept  its possible 
Mr and Mrs F held some savings, Im not persuaded they wouldve had as much savings 
at the time, in 1996, as theyve recently  recollected.  And the policy  couldve paid out for 
Ref: DRN52121162up to 12 months if Mr F lost his job or couldnt work   potentially for longer than Mr Fs 
sick pay, and irrespective of any sick pay and savings, and what couldve been quite a 
difficult time. So I dont think I can say it was wrong  of Bank of Scotland  to recommend 
the policy.
Its possible Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. 
But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs F would still have bought  it.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr F doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Fs comments,  including their question  about how this 
MPPI is different to other PPI they were  sold (complaints about which, I understand, they 
may be saying were upheld). But Ive assessed  this complaint on its own merits. And for the 
reasons explained above, these points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5212116