K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains Stephen Tabner Insurance Brokers  Limited  (Tabner Brokers) gave her 
incorrect advice regarding  referencing requirements  of her tenants when she was taking out 
and renewing  her legal  expenses  and rent guarantee insurance policy. She says as a result 
of the advice, her claim under the policy was declined and shes been paying for a policy  that 
didnt cover her.
background
Ms M took out the legal expenses and rent guarantee insurance policy  to start in May 2017  
via Tabner Brokers. It was renewed  in May 2018 for a further year.  The policy  is underwritten  
by a third party  insurer  and handled by the administrators.
Initially, when Ms M took out the policy,  she had one tenant in her property who she wanted 
cover for. In March 2017, Tabner Brokers  emailed Ms M explaining the referencing 
requirements for her tenant. The email said all tenants have to be fully referenced by the 
administrator or a referencing company approved by the administrator. But if the tenant is full 
time employed, a four point check could be carried out instead. It also set out details of 
what the four point  check was. 
Tabner Brokers says it suggested  Ms M arrange for the administrator to carry out the checks  
but as her agent  had already completed a check at a cost to her, she decided  not to carry 
out a further one. Ms M contacted Tabner Brokers  to ask for confirmation the four point 
check was satisfied and Tabner Brokers asked the administrators about it. The 
administrators said if the criteria for the four point check  had been  met, it was satisfied. 
Ms M got in touch a few times with Tabner Brokers  before the policy  started and during the 
first year of cover to ask whether the reference  checks that had been carried out were  
sufficient  and whether  changes in her tenants  circumstances  affected  the cover. 
Specifically, in January 2018, her tenant  was no longer  working in the same  job and was in 
the process of starting her own business.  Her partner  who had moved into the property 
around August  2017  was covering the rent. 
Tabner Brokers went back and forth with the administrator via email  and explained the 
tenant who originally  signed the agreement was relying on her partner who was living  in the 
property to cover the rent. It also said the tenant who was paying the rent hadnt  been 
referenced. The administrator replied  that as long as the tenancy type hadnt changed from 
let to working the policy was fine as it was. 
Around December  2018, Ms M made  a claim on the policy. It seems the tenants had started 
paying the rent late and she wanted  to start eviction  proceedings. The administrator has told 
me the claim was declined because the original  tenant didnt pass the full reference  checks 
in 2017  and they hadnt been carried out by an approved reference company; the 
documentation for the four point  check for the original tenant wasnt  provided by Ms M; and 
neither the guarantor nor the second  tenant had been referenced. 
Although the claim wasnt covered, the administrators  offered Ms M private legal 
representation which it estimated would  cost around £1,220  including court  fees. 
Ref: DRN54954082Ms M complained to our service as, if shed known the tenants didnt meet the requirements, 
she wouldnt  have renewed  their lease. And in May 2019 she didnt renew her policy.  Ms Ms 
also complained  shes been paying for a policy  that wouldnt cover her. And shes 
significantly lost out financially  due to the claim not being covered. Shes provided evidence  
to show shed instructed  her own solicitors who had written to the tenants at the end of 
May 2019 about access to the property   and were proceeding with legal action. Ms M 
explained the tenants stopped paying  rent around  March 2019. So she thought 
Tabner Brokers should cover the cost of her legal fees, missed  rent, agency fees, court fees 
and council tax fees. She estimated these costs to be around £6,000. In September  2019,  
the tenants left the property having missed six months rent. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he thought Tabner Brokers had given Ms M 
incorrect advice about the referencing requirements for the second tenant. And had it not, 
she wouldve carried out the necessary checks.  Tabner Brokers  didnt agree  as it initially  
said it was just passing on information  it got from the administrator. And it thought  Ms M 
shouldve been  aware of the referencing requirements when she renewed the policy  or from 
December 2018  when the claim was declined. So it thought she couldve carried out the 
necessary checks and avoided further  loss at either of those points. 
my provisional decision
As the complaint wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in October 2019.  I didnt think  Ms Ms complaint  should  be upheld  in summary 
because:
Whilst I could see she was trying  to get advice from Tabner  Brokers,  I was satisfied 
Tabner Brokers didnt recommend the policy or say it was suitable  for her needs. And I 
didnt think it gave  her the impression it was doing so. That means it needed  to give her 
clear information to help her decide  whether the policy was suitable for her at the time of 
the sale and renewal.  
I didnt think the reasons  the administrator had said Ms Ms claim was declined  were 
because of the information Tabner  Brokers gave her. 
I didnt think Tabner  Brokers made  Ms M think the reference check  the tenant didnt pass 
in 2017 could be relied on for a claim; I thought the documentation for the four point 
check was available  to Ms M and I couldnt  see why she didnt give this to the insurer;  
and I didnt think Ms M spoke to Tabner Brokers about referencing requirements for the 
guarantor  or it suggested  she didnt need  to do this.
When Ms M asked about  adding  a second  tenant in January 2018, I thought 
Tabner Brokers needed to take reasonable steps to ensure she was given clear and 
correct information   even if it was just passing information on from the administrator. 
But I didnt think the information it gave her was incorrect. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say customers  need  to advise the insurer of 
changes to the tenants circumstances  upon renewal. But Ms M asked about her tenants  
change in circumstances part way through the first term  and I didnt think it wouldve 
impacted her cover at that point.
Ref: DRN54954083I thought it was Ms Ms responsibility under the terms of the policy  to ensure referencing 
requirements for her tenants were met at the time of renewal. And that included re-
referencing the original tenant  and getting  a reference for the new tenant  at renewal. 
I accepted Tabner Brokers couldve pointed out to Ms M the information it gave her in 
January 2018  applied  to the existing term up to renewal. But I thought the documentation 
provided to Ms M gave clear enough information  about the requirements  at renewal. So I 
didnt think it misled  her. 
Had Ms M known she hadnt met the requirements of the policy,  I thought  she wouldve 
just not agreed  to add the second  tenant to the agreement. And if that was the case, I 
thought it was likely her claim wouldve still been unsuccessful as the reference  for the 
original tenant  didnt meet the policy terms and she didnt provide details of the four point 
check at the time of the claim. 
 I thought Ms M couldve  done  more to reduce her losses  by acting  sooner  and taking the 
administrators offer of private  legal assistance  to start eviction proceedings when the 
claim was declined.  Had she done so, I thought she wouldve paid less in legal fees and 
she couldve avoided losing out as much on her rental income. So even if 
Tabner Brokers had done  something  wrong,  I didnt think it would be fair for it to cover 
the amount Ms M expected. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Tabner 
Brokers explained  it didnt have further  comments to make.  Ms M said in summary:
She thought  Tabner  Brokers did give her advice and its service was recommended  to 
her by a third party as she needed  advice as a first time landlord. Ms M pointed out that 
its website says it offers advice  on insurance  products. 
She was told in March  2017  the checks carried out on the original tenant were  enough 
and she wasnt advised to carry out a check on the guarantor. She believes a four point 
check was carried out. 
She wasnt offered  legal representation  in December  2018 by the administrators. 
She is dyslexic and she made  Tabner  Brokers aware of this. 
She doesnt think Tabner Brokers  took responsibility when she had problems with her 
tenants. 
Ms M also gave us documentation  including correspondence between  her and Tabner 
Brokers; the declined  reference check for her original tenant from 2017; a rent guarantee 
form; and an email  from her bank confirming she is dyslexic. 
my findings
Ive carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments  including  what  Ms M 
has said to decide  whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. And 
whilst I understand its going  to be very disappointing for Ms M, I still dont  think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN54954084Ms M thinks Tabner Brokers gave  her advice. And shes  referred  to its website and 
information she was given by a third party to support this. I cant rely on the information  
Ms M was given by the third party to decide  how the policy  was sold.  And whilst I appreciate 
Tabner Brokers website  mentions advice, Im not persuaded in this case its referring to 
giving regulated advice rather than simply advertising its knowledge of insurance products. 
In any event, I can see Ms M took the policy out over the phone  and I havent  seen anything 
to make me think she relied  on the website or was led to believe by the website shed be 
getting advice  when she took out the policy. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between Ms M and Tabner Brokers and thought about 
what its said about not usually providing an advisory service.  And overall, whilst I think  Ms M 
wanted it to give her advice, I think it just answered  her questions on a number of occasions.  
I dont think this amounted to advice  but instead Tabner Brokers was giving  Ms M 
information. That means it was up to her to make sure the policy  was suitable for her needs 
and she met its terms. Overall, having thought  carefully  about  what  happened  in this case, I 
think its unlikely Tabner  Brokers gave Ms M a personal recommendation to take out or 
renew the policy  or she was given the impression it was doing  so.
Ms Ms said she was told by Tabner Brokers  that the check carried  out in March 2017 was 
sufficient and she wasnt told shed  need  to carry out a check  on her guarantor. Whilst I dont 
agree Tabner Brokers  led her to believe the check shed previously carried out with her 
agent was enough (which  the insurer later confirmed wasnt)  I can see it told her the four 
point check had been satisfied after speaking to the insurer. But, having spoken to the 
administrator, I understand Ms Ms claim was actually declined because  she didnt provide 
the four point  check documentation when she made her claim  not because the tenants 
didnt pass the four point check itself. It seems Ms M had this documentation as she made 
reference to it in her email  of 1 April 2017. So I think she couldve provided  it. And I dont 
think Tabner Brokers  was responsible for the claim being declined for this reason.
I think it was Ms Ms responsibility  to reference  check her tenants and to make sure she 
could show the checks met the requirements of the policy  upon  a claim. I can see the policy 
terms and summary outlining the referencing requirements were emailed to Ms M at the time 
of the sale. And I havent seen anything to suggest  referencing guarantors was discussed 
with Tabner Brokers or that it said anything to give her the impression she didnt need to 
reference the guarantor.  
Ms Ms said she wasnt offered  legal representation  in December 2018  so presumably she 
doesnt think she couldve reduced  her losses any further. Ive looked again  at the 
correspondence between  Ms M and the administrators. And I can see the offer of legal 
representation in December 2018  was made  by email  to the same email address shes given 
our service.  And it seems  it was in reply to an email from Ms M. So Im satisfied the offer 
was sent to her and I think its more likely it wouldve  reduced her losses  significantly if shed 
taken it. In any event as I dont think Tabner Brokers  did something wrong in this case, I 
dont think it would be responsible for any of her losses  even if they were reduced. 
I understand Ms M thinks Tabner Brokers didnt  do enough when her tenants stopped paying 
their rent. But Tabner  Brokers wasnt her representative or responsible for managing her 
claim for her  it only sold her the policy. So I dont think it needed to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN54954085I thank Ms M for giving  me further  information about being dyslexic  and how it affects her 
ability to manage her finances  online. Shes said she told Tabner Brokers about  this at the 
time  so presumably she thinks it shouldve done  more to make  sure she understood the 
policy terms and conditions, including the terms about guarantors. I cant be sure Ms M did 
tell Tabner Brokers this but in any event, having  considered her interactions with 
Tabner Brokers, I think she wouldve questioned anything she wasnt clear on  and Tabner 
Broker was open to this. So overall, I dont think Ms M was unhappy with the way the policy 
terms were explained  to her  or that they werent  made clear  enough  to her as I think  she 
wouldve queried it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5495408