K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) have offered 
to settle a claim for Mrs Gs damaged  engagement  ring under their contents insurance 
policy.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 October 2019  setting out the 
background and the findings I planned  to reach.
Mr and Mrs G have told us her engagement ring broke in December 2018.
Mr and Mrs G complained  in April 2019  about the way RSA wanted  to settle the claim.  They  
were unhappy  with the suggestion that the cash settlement would be £607.60, when the 
jeweller said itd cost £980  to repair the ring. They  were also unhappy  with RSAs appointed 
jeweller getting in touch  instead of RSA,  and with the suggestion of sending  the ring to 
someone theyd never heard of.
RSA replied, and said the decision rests  with them  on how they settle  Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
And said if they agree to send a cash settlement instead of doing a repair,  the cost wont  
exceed what theyd  pay their approved suppliers  RSA explained any discounts they 
receive would  be reflected  in the offer made to Mr and Mrs G. RSA added  that their 
approved suppliers were  confident they could repair the ring  so it was Mr and Mrs Gs 
choice whether to allow  this to happen,  or accept a cash  settlement. And added the jeweller 
who got in touch was authorised to do so by RSA.
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy with this, so asked us to look into things. Our investigator 
said the policy terms allowed RSA to apply this discount, so the cash  settlement of £607.60 
was fair. And insurers often use specified  companies so he didnt  think  RSA had acted 
incorrectly here either.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said the cash settlement  was actually £357.60 once  you 
deduct the £250 excess  they told us this when they first contacted  us, and in response to 
our investigator. They said theyre  happy to accept £980 minus  the excess  of £250,  as they 
dont see why they should be liable  for RSAs commercial discounts  nor do they want  to 
send the ring across  the country  to someone  theyve  never heard of. Because  of this, its 
been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs G purchased. The terms most relevant to 
this complaint all fall under the section  of How we settle your claim:
1. We will pay for the cost of reinstating,  repairing  or replacing your buildings and/or contents 
which are covered by this policy  (including  any re-decoration  that forms part of a valid claim). 
We will decide whether  to reinstate, repair, replace or pay you the cash value. All replaced 
items will be on a new for old basis. Where we have  offered to repair or replace and you 
instead request  for us to pay the cash value, we will not pay you more than the amount it 
would cost for us to repair or replace the item.
Ref: DRN516383827. We may appoint our approved supplier  to act on our behalf.  We may use our approved  
supplier to further validate your claim and provide a quotation, repair  or replacement.
9. Any amount we agree  to pay to settle  a claim will be reduced by the total amount of any 
applicable excesses  shown in your schedule.
Looking at these  Im satisfied RSA have acted in line with their policy terms. It has offered to 
repair the broken  ring, or to offer a cash settlement for it, based on what it would have cost 
to repair  or replace the item. So, Im satisfied it has acted reasonably  in noting these are the 
settlement options  Mr and Mrs G can choose from. The question now becomes whether 
theyve assessed  the settlement of the claim fairly.
RSA provided a report from their approved supplier which says they can remake the ring.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  this isnt true, so this is a reasonable way for RSA to offer to 
settle this claim. Mr and Mrs G have expressed  concern about sending an expensive ring to
a company theyve  never heard of. I can completely understand these concerns, particularly 
given this is Mrs Gs engagement  ring. But that doesnt mean RSA have acted unfairly by 
offering this as an option. I think its reasonable for them to rely on the opinion of their 
approved suppliers as the experts  in what they do.
As Mr and Mrs G have  declined the repair option, RSA have offered a cash settlement of 
£607.60 (minus the £250 excess,  which Ill come back to). Again I think this is fair. The terms 
of Mr and Mrs Gs policy do allow for RSA to provide a cash  settlement  if Mr and Mrs G 
dont want to accept  the suggested repair. And it does allow this cash  settlement to reflect 
the amount RSA would  actually pay to repair or replace the ring.
Mr and Mrs G have said theyd be prepared to accept  £730 as a cash  settlement. This is 
made up of £980  the approved supplier said itd cost to repair  the ring, minus  the excess of 
£250. But the amount of £980 isnt what RSA would pay their approved supplier, its £607.60 
 thats because they get a discount  by using certain  suppliers  and Ive seen a report to 
demonstrate this. This is a standard term in home insurance policies, so while  Mr and Mrs G 
dont agree they should be subject to this, Ive seen nothing to say its unfair or shouldnt
apply in this case. Mr and Mrs G would find this in most standard home insurance policies.
Mr and Mrs G have pointed out the cash settlement here is actually £357.60  once the
excess is deducted. This is true as the excess applicable to the policy  is £250. But excesses
are standard in insurance claims.  The excess is clear in Mr and Mrs Gs policy  and theyd
need to pay this part of the loss. So Im satisfied its fair to deduct  the excess from the
settlement offered.
I also note that RSA say in their policy terms theyll use their approved supplier to manage a
claim. Often  this can be an efficient  way to conduct  an insurance claim  as the approved
supplier is usually the expert in the subject  of the claim.  And insurers  delegating authority to 
another party to handle  the claim is fairly common, so I dont  think  RSA did anything wrong 
here.
Taking into account all of the above, I think RSA have acted fairly in the options theyve 
given to settle this claim and how theyve gone about it. If Mr and Mrs G now wish to accept 
the repair or cash settlement, before I finalise my decision, they can let us know and well tell 
RSA.
Ref: DRN51638383Responses to my provisional decision
RSA replied and said they had nothing  to add.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept it though, and in reply  said:
The value of the ring hasnt been taken into account
RSA have only provided one quote from their approved supplier
Theyve not been told their quote was insufficient  or why
Theyve never been asked to send any other quote and were  strongly advised to 
accept the approved  suppliers findings
And they still maintain they shouldnt  be subjected  to a commercial  discount.
Theyve also said their policy has now finished, and asked how this affects  the claim.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the value of the ring is clearly important to Mr and Mrs G, its not as important to 
determining whether RSA are allowed  to settle  the claim as theyve suggested. Ultimately 
Im satisfied RSA have acted fairly in how theyve offered to settle the claim. 
RSA have only provided one quote from their approved supplier, but Im satisfied RSA are 
entitled to rely on this, so I dont require them to produce another  one.
Mr and Mrs Gs quote or lack of other quotes  isnt the issue  here. The issue here is that RSA 
are allowed  to settle claims as they see fit  their approved supplier has said they can carry 
out the repair. Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen they can  so RSA arent 
required to engage  with Mr and Mrs G about the quote they obtained  independently, or ask 
them to get further quotes.  I think its worth reiterating to Mr and Mrs G they are still free to 
have the ring repaired by RSAs approved  supplier, and RSA would have  to ensure that any 
couriering would need to be done  securely.
And Ive addressed Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about the commercial discount previously.
If Mr and Mrs G now wish to have the ring repaired,  or wish to accept the cash settlement, 
they should get in touch with RSA.  RSA have already agreed to settle  the claim, and its just 
the final settlement  thats been  disputed. So I see no reason why Mr and Mrs Gs policy 
finishing would make a difference to what RSA have  already said theyd do.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
Ref: DRN51638384Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5163838