K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the advice  from Tilney Asset Management Services Limited to invest 
in Free-Standing  Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVCs)  to give him an enhanced 
pension at retirement.
The advice was given  by another firm which is now part of Tilney but for ease of reading Ill 
just refer to Tilney in my decision. 
background 
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
Mr M is a member  of the NHS pension scheme.  In September 1996  when he was in his early 
twenties he took advice from Tilney to begin making  FSAVCs with a company Ill call S 
rather than make additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) to his occupational scheme. The 
CMC says Mr M wasnt  told about the risks, implications or alternatives and so was badly 
advised. 
Tilney originally thought  Mr M had complained  too late, as hed been receiving annual 
statements. These showed the projected annual return on his FSAVCs had been 
consistently reducing since 2008,  which it said should have  put him on notice something was 
wrong. Our investigator disagreed as he didnt think the statements alone would have been 
enough to prompt  a complaint. And given  the lack of available  evidence, he was minded to 
accept Mr M had been badly advised.  He thought Mr M should have been told to contribute 
to in-house AVCs which would have probably  been better  for him as the charges tend to be 
lower. So he said Tilney  should put Mr M in the position as if hed done  that from the start, by 
performing a comparison using the regulators FSAVC  guidance,  on a charges-only basis.   
Tilney agreed to do this, as they have no information  relating to the sale by the predecessor  
business so couldnt be sure the advisor had explained the alternatives to Mr M. But Mr Ms 
representative said hed have been  better off if hed purchased Added Years in his 
employers pension and believed Tilney had agreed to carry out the redress on that basis.  It 
said the high level of contributions Mr M had been paying  meant Added  Years were 
affordable for him. But he couldnt  do so now as the scheme  withdrew this facility in 2008.  
This didnt  change our investigators mind as he didnt think Tilney had specified it would 
base its calculations on Added  Years. And in any case he didnt think  Mr M was making high 
contributions so thought it unlikely hed have been  prepared to pay the additional  costs  at 
the time.
As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it for 
broadly the same reasons  as our investigator. Let me explain why.
The predecessor business of Tilney was an independent financial advisor  (IFA), so wasnt  
tied to a particular  provider. And as the advice  took place after May 1996 the regulator had 
already clarified  the standards it expected IFAs to follow. The advisor was expected to have 
Ref: DRN58075502explained the difference in cost between FSAVCs and in-house  AVCs, discussed the choice 
of investments and the availability and cost of purchasing added  years in the occupational 
scheme. Tilney has said it doesnt  have  the predecessor businesss file for Mr M, so it cant  
say what was discussed when he started  his FSAVC. On this basis  they were  prepared to 
carry out a comparison  following  the regulators FSAVC redress  guidance. This is what  wed 
expect a firm to do, as generally speaking people are better  off making  in-house  AVCs as 
the charges tend to be lower. And the perceived  benefits of FSAVCs  (flexibility and 
portability) are less likely to be relevant for a medical professional like Mr M. Theyre likely to 
remain within that profession (and therefore the same superannuation pension scheme)  
rather than change employers throughout their working life. 
Mr Ms representative said in response  to the investigators view that hed have been  better  
off buying Added Years, which he cant now do. In support of this, the CMC  enclosed  an 
extract of the FCAs FSAVC review guidance (paragraph 2.5) referring to Other Subsidised  
AVC schemes.  But this guidance isnt relevant to Mr M as AVCs  to his occupational scheme 
(the NHS superannuation  scheme) like most public sector schemes wouldnt have been 
subsidised. Below  the extract  quoted by the CMC, paragraph 2.6 reads The review does not 
cover cases   where the full cost of benefits  is intended to be incurred by the scheme 
members and there is therefore no employer subsidy. And Annexe A contains a list of the 
occupational schemes covered by the guidance, which  are all private sector  companies 
rather than public sector bodies like the NHS. So while the CMC says Tilney  had offered  to 
redress the complaint  based on Mr M buying added  years  I dont  think they did, as the final 
response simply refers to a comparison in line with the FCAs FSAVC  review. 
With hindsight Mr M might  have been  better off if hed purchased Added Years  as 
investment returns have failed to live up to expectations. But I cant safely say he would 
have taken that option in 1996. 
The advisor wouldnt have  been  able to recommend  Added Years without first obtaining the 
relevant information  from Mr Ms occupational scheme, and we cant be sure that happened.  
But I think its likely Mr M had access to the relevant information as a matter  of course. Mr M 
started his FSAVC in 1996 when he was 23, so it seems hed only need to purchase  three  
Added Years to achieve the full 40 years contributions by his normal retirement age of 60. 
But Mr M would have  needed to commit to a fixed percentage contribution from his salary, 
so the amount hed pay would rise each time his salary went up. So while this might  lead to 
a better  outcome  at retirement, his contributions could rise significantly as his salary 
increased. It doesnt seem likely Mr M would have  been prepared  for his contributions to rise 
in line with his salary as he only increased  his FSAVC contribution once. His initial  monthly 
contribution in 1996 was £190. It increased by around 23% to £235 in 1998  but remained at 
that level until 2015 when they stopped,  and the plan became paid up. I dont have details 
of Mr Ms salary  apart  from a record it was £27,334 in 1998. But I think its likely it would 
have increased  over time in line with his professional experience and increased  seniority,  
and in 1996 Mr M would  have  anticipated  it would do so over the years. So even at the 
outset I think hed have  been reluctant to commit to contributing a fixed percentage of his 
salary. Particularly as the predicted benefits  of FSAVCs are likely to have been higher than 
Added Years, for the same level of contributions. This is because  the cost of Added Years 
was determined by the Government Actuary using conservative estimates of investment 
returns compared to the more optimistic  growth  predicted for FSAVCs. 
As theres  no documentation  from the point of sale, its not possible to be sure of Mr Ms 
attitude to risk at the time. But I think in 1996  retirement was sufficiently far away to mean he 
wouldnt have been completely risk averse. I say this because his FSAVC  is invested in 
Ref: DRN58075503provider Ss Balanced Lifestyle Fund which has a volatility rating of 4 (out of 7) which 
suggests Mr M was prepared to take some risk in order  to maximise returns  over the long 
term. And the closer  Mr M is to his retirement  date, a greater proportion of his fund will be 
moved into relatively safer investments. At age 23, retirement would have been many years  
in the future, so a balanced fund, and the forecasted returns  he could  make  are likely to 
have made  FSAVCs a more attractive  prospect than paying  for relatively expensive Added 
Years. And finally Mr M was single  in 1996,  so the spouses benefits which  automatically  
come with Added Years wouldnt  have been a priority for him. 
So I think even if Mr M and the advisor  had researched into Added Years at the time, hes 
still more likely to have  preferred in-house AVCs. And from what  I can see, that wouldnt 
have been an unsuitable recommendation. I say this as I think  most people  who were 
prepared to take some risk wouldnt choose an option which  looked  relatively  more  
expensive but was intended  to achieve the same outcome. We dont know Mr M would have 
been prepared  (or been able to) make that financial commitment at such  a young age, on a 
lower salary.  And while  Mr M might  have given age 60 as his nominal  retirement date, as far 
as Im aware theres  no mandated retirement  age in the medical profession,  and its not 
unusual for doctors  continue working.  So Mr M might have thought  hed achieve the required 
40 years contributions anyway. 
Having an FSAVC plan (or making  AVCs) wouldnt have  prevented  Mr M also purchasing 
Added Years at a later date if hed wanted to (and could afford to). And theres  no evidence 
he explored the possibility of doing so prior to 2008 when the NHS withdrew the option.  I 
think its likely a pension scheme would have advised its members  in advance of such  
proposed changes.
The investigator recommended  Tilney  carry out a comparison following the FCAs FSAVC 
review guidance  on a charges only basis  which means Mr M wont  be disadvantaged if it 
turns out hes paid more charges for his FSAVC than he would have incurred through in-
house AVCs.  I think  thats the right outcome in this case. In advance of issuing this decision I 
shared the methodology  wed expect  Tilney to follow when calculating  the redress  with both 
parties. For the avoidance of doubt Ive repeated  below what  Tilney  should do.
Tilney should undertake  a redress calculation in accordance  with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 1 January 
2005, Tilney should  use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January  2005  and the 
FTSE UK Private  Investor  Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN58075504If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%.  So making a notional deduction of 30% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this. I asked Mr Ms representative to confirm his correct  tax bracket, but 
as they havent done  so Ill assume  hes a higher rate taxpayer. 
But Im not going  to ask Tilney to carry out the comparison  with Added Years as Im not 
persuaded thats what Mr M would have done  in 1996, even if he knew  he could.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Tilney Asset Management  Limited should  settle the complaint using 
the FCAs FSAVC guidance as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5807550