K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mrs G have  complained about  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs handling of 
their caravan  insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes their agents.
background
Mr W and Mrs G own a static caravan that, I understand, has been  situated in a caravan 
park by the coast  for a few years.
Mr W and Mrs G have  said that while a relative  was staying at the caravan in the summer of 
2017, the toilet in the main bathroom had a leak. I understand the leak was fixed  at the time 
it was discovered. Mr W and Mrs G said the leak caused some  damage to the carpet in the 
hallway which they intended to replace at a later date. They said that when their carpet fitter 
attended sometime in January 2018, he discovered that damage  had been caused to the 
sub floor which had begun to rot. Mr W and Mrs G reported the damage to RSA and made  a 
claim on 12 January 2018.
RSA sent a loss adjuster (L) who assessed  the damage at the beginning of February 2018. 
They then instructed a contractor  (S) who attended to assess the damage  and to give an 
estimate of the costs  to put right the damage. During  Ss assessment, they discovered  
additional water  damage  that was unrelated to the toilet  leak.  S felt the additional damage 
was caused by water seepage from around  a door and window frames.  Mr W and Mrs G 
didnt agree with that assessment and said the likely cause of the additional water  damage 
was from storms,  particularly  one that happened in October 2017  that was reported on in the 
news. To resolve the dispute, RSA instructed an independent specialist caravan assessment 
company (C) to inspect the caravan.  
C said that it was possible  the toilet leak caused  damage to the main bathrooms  floor,  the 
hallway and the nearside of the master  bedroom  that adjoined the bathroom. But C said it is 
also possible  that some  or all of this damage is the result of water  ingress  through  external 
seams and seals, such as the bathroom  window seals. C said the water damage  in the 
kitchen and lounge  wasnt caused by the toilet leak but water ingress through  external 
seams and seals, namely the door frame seals  and possibly  the panel  joint seal above the 
door. C said they felt the damage had been ongoing for some considerable time. C said 
the damage in the rear en-suite bathroom and in the offside corner  of the master  bedroom 
wasnt caused by the toilet leak, but water ingress  through external seams  and seals, 
namely corner mould seals. C concluded that the water damage in the kitchen, lounge, en-
suite and the offside of the master bedroom wasnt caused by the toilet leak.  So RSA agreed 
to cover the damage  to the main bathroom,  hallway and the nearside of the master  bedroom 
as being caused by the toilet leak. Despite C saying the lounge wasnt damaged by the toilet  
leak, RSA also agreed to cover that as S had already included it in their estimate  of repairs.
Mr W and Mrs G didnt  agree  with RSA. They said the water  ingress  from the door was 
caused by storm, which  was covered by the policy. So any damage  caused by water 
penetration through the door, which C identified as being the kitchen and lounge floors, 
should be covered.  Mr W and Mrs G said they were  only claiming  for water damage caused 
to areas  by the toilet leak and the storm rain that entered through  the door.  And they were 
not claiming for other  areas which C identified as being caused by water  ingress  through  
external seams and seals, namely  corner mould seals, namely the en-suite bathroom and 
Ref: DRN55707082the offside corner  of the master bedroom. RSA offered Mr W and Mrs G a cash settlement at 
the beginning of April to settle  their claim.
Mr W and Mrs G complained, they said:
RSA wrongly refused  part of their claim on the basis that the water entering through  
the door wasnt storm related.
Because the caravan  was uninhabitable,  they wanted RSA to pay their claim for 
ground rent.
RSA didnt deal with their claim in a timely  manner.
RSA failed to provide  Ss estimate  of repairs with costings (RSA did provide  a copy  of 
the estimate without  the costings). Mr W and Mrs G feel this is also a breach of the 
Data Protection Act.
The cash  settlement  RSA offered them was around £3,000  lower  than the total 
estimate given by S.
RSAs service was poor.
RSA didnt uphold  Mr W and Mrs Gs complaint. Mr W and Mrs G didn't think  that was fair so 
they brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint.  She 
felt that RSA hadnt dealt with Mr W and Mrs G fairly. She suggested  that RSA should  cover 
all the water damage that was caused from the rain that entered  through the door and 
window. She also felt that RSA should cover  the claim for ground rent because it was 
uninhabitable. As RSA didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 27 March 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
In their complaint,  Mr W and Mrs G have made a number of detailed points and Ive 
considered all those  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I consider  to 
be the key issues.  My role is to decide if RSA have  dealt with Mr W and Mrs G in a 
fair and reasonable way. 
RSAs refusal of part of the claim because the water entering through the door wasnt  
storm related
The policy says RSA:  will pay for Damage to Your Structure, Contents and Personal 
Possessions by any insured cause It goes onto say Damage arising from 
seepage of water into the Structure through external seams or seals  isnt covered. 
The policy also says The property insured  must be maintained in a sound  condition 
and all precautions  taken to prevent and minimise any claims. The policy specifically 
excludes Any Damage  caused by or resulting from wear and tear  which 
happens gradually. 
Under Handy Tips the policy  says: Water Ingress  -Sensible precautions  should  be 
taken as follows: Regularly inspect the seams  and seals where panels join Keep 
the exterior panelling clean and check the general  condition of your structure on a 
regular basis.
Ref: DRN55707083In their report following  their assessment, C said:
the external  seams and seals are in a poor condition.  
Regarding the cause  of the failure of the external seals, we can confirm that 
the sealant along the panel  joints and the corner moulds are cracked and in 
areas missing. This is the result of general wear  and tear, and these  seals  
should be checked annually and maintained as necessary.  Over  time the 
sealant dries out and as the caravan is not of a rigid construction  it flexes and 
the aluminium panels expand and contract  due to changing temperatures,  this 
leads to the sealant failing as in this case.
The window and door frames are sealed with a rubber gasket and should  also 
be bedded in with sealant behind the gasket. You will note from [photo] 26 
that the gasket  does  not form a water  tight seal against the profile of the 
panel, and if as we suspect the sealant behind  the gasket has failed, then 
water will penetrate into the caravan. Water penetrating through  any failed 
window and door frame seal,  or panel joint and corner mould  seal will travel 
down the wall cavity,  and then spill onto the floor as in this case.
We note that the owner has stated that the damage is the result [of] driving  
rain. However, rain will not penetrate through seals if they are water tight, and 
the breakdown  of these seals occurs over time and is a gradual operating 
cause and not the result of a specific event.
Taking all of the above into account  in our opinion liability  should not be 
accepted for the damage in the kitchen, lounge,  en-suite or the offside of the 
master bedroom  as this is the result of water  ingress through  failed seams  
and seals.
C also noted that the nearside  windows  and door frame gaskets have been over-
sealed with clear sealant. Mr W and Mrs G said they had that done after the 
discovery of the damage and not before. They  also told our service that they 
replaced the seam around  [the] rubber seal around  the doors only 3 years ago. I 
understand that between the replacement of the seam around the doors  seal 
sometime in 2015  and the suspected storm in October  2017,  no precautionary or 
other work has been done to the caravan.
Mr W and Mrs G said that Cs reporting  on other parts of the caravan, in particular  
the poor condition  of the corner mould and panel  joint seals  (photos 27 to 32 in Cs 
report) was irrelevant, because they hadnt claimed  for any water  damage that may 
have been caused by water entering  through those  parts. But I disagree. RSA have 
said that the caravan was in parts poorly maintained and in poor condition. Mr W and 
Mrs G countered that by producing a number  of photographs to show how well 
maintained the caravan was. I have  seen those photos and they do indeed show  a 
very presentable, clean caravan internally. But the poor condition  of the outside as 
highlighted by C cant be ignored. I think they are relevant because  they show 
significant defects  to key parts of the caravan that should be properly maintained and 
sealed to keep water out. In relation to the corner moulds and panel  joint seals, C 
said they were: in a poor condition  with the sealant  being cracked and in areas 
completely missing, other than the over-sealing of the nearside  window and door 
frame seals there is a lack of any routine  maintenance  having  been carried  out. 
Ref: DRN55707084C said there was clear damage to the corner  moulds,  panel  joint seals,  the seal 
around the door and windows from wear and tear. The photos support that. C said 
these parts should  have been checked annually and maintenance done  as 
necessary. The policy  also recommends  that Mr W and Mrs G: Regularly inspect the 
seams and seals where panels  join  Keep  the exterior panelling  clean and check  
the general condition of your structure on a regular basis. 
Mr W has extensive insurance  industry knowledge, and both he and Mrs G have  had 
the caravan for a long time. Mr W in particular has demonstrated in-depth knowledge 
about caravans.  Like the expert  from C, he has mentioned that the body of the 
caravan can flex in certain circumstances which may cause seals to fail. I think he 
would have therefore known the importance of maintaining all areas that serve to 
keep the caravan watertight, but I dont think he did. For example, the damage to the 
corner mould was clearly visible as there are at places gaps of a few inches wide.  Mr 
W and Mrs G said that they were aware of the damage to the corner  mould as they 
suspected it was caused by a neighbour and they intended to repair  it. But it wasnt  
repaired. While Mr W and Mrs G feel the damage  to the corner mould and joint 
panels are irrelevant because they didnt claim for any damage resulting  from water 
seepage through those parts, I think they are relevant as they demonstrate a lack of 
maintenance of visibly obvious risks posed to the caravan from water. 
The seals  around  the door and windows on inspection also give clear signs of 
damage. The expert from C said that damage was due to wear and tear, whereas Mr 
W and Mrs G said the damage to the door was as a result of storm. C said We note 
that the owner has stated that the damage  is the result driving rain. However, rain will 
not penetrate  through seals  if they are water  tight,  and the breakdown of these seals 
occurs over time and is a gradual  operating cause and not the result  of a specific 
event. I find the evidence  of C persuasive that the seals around the door and 
windows had failed  due to wear and tear, and not due to storm.
Given the above, I think RSA were  reasonable to rely on the expert evidence  of C in 
not agreeing to pay for part of Mr W and Mrs Gs claim on the basis that some of the 
damage wasnt due to storm, but poor maintenance and wear  and tear, which is 
specifically excluded under the policy.
RSA have agreed to cover the damage to the main bathroom, hallway and nearside 
of the master bedroom on the basis of water  escape  from the toilet, which  is covered  
under the policy.  I also understand they have agreed to cover the lounge  floor, 
despite Cs opinion  that the damage  wasnt related to the toilet leak. I understand 
they have agreed  to cover that as a gesture of good  will because  it was included  in 
Ss estimate  of works. I think that is reasonable. I therefore dont intend to uphold  this 
part of the complaint.
the claim for ground rent because the caravan was uninhabitable
RSA have said the caravan was habitable as Mr W and Mrs G still had access  to 
cooking facilities, electricity, water and sanitation. Mr W and Mrs G said it wasnt 
habitable.
The policy covers ground rent if the Structure  is rendered uninhabitable as a result  
of Damage covered by this Policy.  While  there was water damage to various  parts of 
Ref: DRN55707085the caravan, the only damage  covered  by this policy was to the main bathroom, 
hallway and nearside of the master bedroom. All the other  damage, as detailed  in my 
preliminary findings above,  was damage not covered by the policy.  
So in claiming that the conditions of the caravan rendered it uninhabitable, I dont 
think Mr W and Mrs G can rely on the damage  not covered by the policy. And on the 
basis of the evidence I have seen, I dont  think the damage covered under the policy 
was enough to render the caravan  uninhabitable. So I dont intend  to uphold this part 
of the complaint.
RSA didnt deal with the claim in a timely manner?
Mr W and Mrs G claimed for the damage  on 12 January 2018. RSA made a cash  
settlement offer at the beginning  of April 2018,  around ten weeks after the claim. 
RSA investigated  the claim, which they were  entitled to do. The appointed a loss 
adjuster who inspected the caravan  and provided a report. A contractor (S) was then 
appointed to survey  the damage and give an estimate for the repairs.  RSA had 
discussions with Mr W and Mrs G that resulted in disagreement as to what was or 
wasnt covered under  the policy. As a result, RSA appointed an independent caravan 
specialist to inspect  the caravan who produced a report. Given all the above, I cant 
say there  was an unreasonable delay. Im therefore  not intending to uphold  this part 
of the complaint.
RSAs refusal to provide a copy of Ss estimate  of repairs  with the costings
When S surveyed  the damage  to the caravan they produced a written estimate which  
itemised the work that needed to be done  to make good the damage. The estimate 
was produced for RSA and it included the cost for the specific  items  of work to be 
done. RSA provided  Mr W and Mrs G a redacted copy of the estimate without the 
itemised costings. RSA said they had agreed  rates with S which were commercially  
sensitive, which is why they wouldnt provide them to Mr W and Mrs G. 
I dont think not having  the costed estimate  caused Mr W and Mrs G any 
disadvantage as they had the breakdown of the work that needed  to be done.  And 
RSA had given  Mr W and Mrs G three options: for RSA to have the repairs carried 
out by their own repairer; or for Mr W and Mrs G to get their own estimate  from their 
own repairer for approval by RSA; or for RSA to make a cash settlement. Mr W and 
Mrs G chose a cash  settlement. I think RSA have  been reasonable so I dont intend 
to uphold this part of the complaint.
I understand that Mr W and Mrs G feel that RSAs refusal to provide a copy  of the 
costed estimate is a breach of data protection  laws. Mr W and Mrs G would have to 
make any data protection complaint to the Information Commissioners Officer who 
considers complaints of that nature.
the cash settlement  RSA offered was lower than the gross estimate given by S
The gross estimate given by S included VAT and fees. Had the repair work been 
done by S, I understand RSA would have paid them the gross estimate. Thats 
because S are VAT registered  and they charge their customers VAT. They also 
charge fees. But because  Mr W and Mrs G opted for a cash  settlement rather  than 
allowing RSA to use S to carry out the repairs, I think it was right that RSA deducted 
Ref: DRN55707086the fees and the VAT. Not all businesses  charge  VAT so its possible that the 
company Mr W and Mrs G instruct to repair  the caravan wont charge them  VAT. But 
RSA told Mr W and Mrs G that if the company they use does charge them VAT, they 
should provide  them  with a VAT receipt  at which point RSA will pay them the VAT. I 
think thats reasonable. So Im not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
RSAs service 
Mr W and Mrs G said that RSAs service  was generally poor. But from the evidence  I 
have seen, I dont  agree. While there have been  a number of disagreements 
between the parties,  I think  RSA have dealt with things reasonably.  Im not intending 
to uphold this part of the complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. RSA didnt provide any comments. Mr 
W and Mrs G were given  an extension of time for them to provide their response.  But more  
than six weeks have  passed since they were  sent my provisional decision, however they 
havent provided any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5570708