K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the MPPI.  
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr C. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs C say that they didnt know they were paying for MPPI, and it mustve been  
added without their consent. But I think Santander  made it clear  that Mr and Mrs C didnt  
have to take out the MPPI and chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this as it was so long ago. 
Santander has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application. I can see that the 
MPPI is presented as optional, and has been selected. This section also states that a 
separate application needs to be completed  for the policy. Santander dont have a copy of 
this application  form, but this isnt surprising given how long ago the sale took place  and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But in order  for the policy  to be set 
up, its clear one would  need to be completed. Mr and Mrs C have  also signed the mortgage 
application form, agreeing to the information on it. 
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the MPPI  was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the MPPI  premium  - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN59094242Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C has said - including what they have said about 
Mr C being in secure employment  for 18 years, and that they couldve relied on relatives to 
help make their repayments if they needed  to.
But MPPI, like all insurance, is to protect  against  things that may happen in the future. And 
while I understand that relatives are often  keen to help out, their own circumstances can 
change. And ultimately the mortgage repayments  were Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5909424