K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly  gave  her 
loans she couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mrs H 5 loans between September 2015 and April 2018. There  was a break 
in the lending of about six months between repaying  loan 3 and taking out loan 4. 
A summary  of Mrs Hs lending  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 24/09/2015 31/03/2016 6 £200.00 £92.53
2 06/04/2016 27/09/2016 6 £250.00 £95.00
3 27/09/2016 31/05/2017 6 £350.00 £153.53
4 27/11/2017 12/04/2018 6 £300.00 £126.80
5 13/04/2018 31/08/2018 4 £300.00 £130.80
 
Mrs H says that proportionate checks werent carried  out before the loans were provided.  
She says if these had taken place Mr Lender  would have realised she was reliant on short 
term loans and that the loans werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified the information provided by Mrs H and on the basis of the 
information it gathered  the lending was affordable. 
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loans  1 to 3 shouldnt have 
been provided given the amounts  involved.  He thought  that by the time of loan four, given 
the gap in borrowing it was reasonable to conclude  any difficulty  may have passed  and so it 
wasnt wrong to have given Mrs H loans 4 and 5 either. 
Mrs H didnt accept our adjudicators view and said it was clear  that her borrowing pattern 
and credit report showed she was reliant  on other  payday lending  to repay the borrowing. 
She said other loans  from other lenders had been  upheld as irresponsible.  Mrs H said that 
although she could  see why loans 1 and 4 may have  been reasonable, the continuous  
sequential borrowing  should have alerted Mr Lender that she couldnt afford the loans.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ref: DRN53267102Mrs H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that loans one to three should 
not have been provided.  I have looked  at the information gathered,  including income  and 
expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender 
should not have provided these loans to Mrs H or that it should have done more  thorough  
checking of Mrs Hs finances. There was nothing in the information gathered to suggest that 
Mrs H was struggling to manage her money or that she couldnt  afford  to repay  what  she had 
borrowed. There was sequential borrowing for loans one to three but this on its own isnt 
enough for me to say that the loans  were unaffordable. Mrs H was borrowing relatively small 
amounts and there were no difficulties with her repayments. If Mrs H had continued to 
borrow in this way then I would have expected further checking but there  was then a 
significant break between loans 3 and 4.
I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to conclude any difficulties may have passed 
and to treat Mrs H as a new customer at the point  of loan 4. Again, I agree with the 
Ref: DRN53267103adjudicator that there was nothing in Mrs Hs borrowing and repayment pattern for these two 
loans that would have alerted Mr Lender  to do more robust checking.
I dont doubt that Mrs H was in financial  difficulty and was borrowing out of necessity. I 
sympathise with her situation. But on the basis of the evidence  I have seen I cant say that 
Mr Lender should  have been  alerted to her difficulties and not provided the loans.  I 
understand that loans Mrs H took out with other  lenders have been considered as 
irresponsible lending.  But I can only deal with the loans taken out with Mr Lender and what it 
was reasonable  and proportionate for it to do in these circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5326710