K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that he received inappropriate advice from Anthony Feeney Financial 
Services (AFFS)  to transfer his personal pension plans to a SIPP.
background
Mr C signed a fact find document  on 5 November 2013 recording his personal and financial 
circumstances. These  were:
He was 44 and married with two children.
He was employed earning around  £18,000 a year.
He was a member of his employers group personal pension  plan contributing  £27 a 
month. He aimed to retire at age 65.
He also had personal pension plans with Clerical Medical and Phoenix Life.
He had an Adventurous attitude to risk out of the options of Very  Cautious, Low, 
Balanced, Adventurous  and Speculative.
Adventurous attitude to risk was defined as: You prefer to invest  in more 
specialised stock-market linked investments, in return for the potential for increased  
capital growth. Again,  investment  values will fluctuate according to market  conditions, 
however, these fluctuations will be more pronounced.
Hand written against the heading Further Comments was I wouldnt class  myself as 
a high risk investor but do understand the need to take more risk to achieve growth.
Under the heading Investment knowledge and experience a cross was placed 
against the sentence  I have no  or very little experience or understanding of 
investment markets. Another  hand written comment said Own  own property and has 
workplace pension.  Wants a review of pension to make  that a major asset also.
In a Financial Planning  Report for Mr C a recommendation was made to switch  to a SIPP  
with Berkeley Burke. AFFS said they werent advising on the store pods investment Mr C 
intended to make.
AFFSs letter to Mr C dated 16 June  2014  said that his pension transfer to his SIPP  
completed on 21 May 2014.  However,  the investment in store  pods wasnt made.  The funds 
remained in cash.
A Financial Planning  Report signed  by Mr C on 27 November  2015 recommended  
transferring the SIPP into an LV SIPP. It recommended investing 25% of the proceeds in the 
Vanguard Life strategy 60% equity fund and 75% of the proceeds into the LV Balanced 
(Series 2) Fund. That transfer was made in 2016.
Mr C complained to AFFS about the advice he received.
AFFS rejected Mr Cs complaint because:
He was referred to AFFS seeking advice on setting up a SIPP in order  to invest  in 
commercial property  with Store  First. It provided advice on the suitability of the SIPP 
but it did not provide any advice to Mr C about  the underlying  investment.
Ref: DRN50580352Projections were obtained  from the existing contracts and for the proposed  
replacement contract.  These projections  although using slightly  different  growth  rates 
suggested that there was very little difference in the costs between the existing and 
new contracts. Based on the above factors and in order to meet  his needs and 
objectives a SIPP  was recommended.
However just after the transfer took place,  pension freedom reforms were  
announced. AFFS identified Mr C as one of its clients who may be affected by these 
changes. It recommended that the investment  did not take place. Mr C did not 
investment in Store First and the fund stayed  in the trustee  bank account.
It wrote to Mr C on three separate occasions requesting further details  in order to 
advise on an appropriate investment strategy.  It was not until September 2015 that 
Mr C responded. Once it was back in contact with Mr C it reviewed his circumstances 
and attitude to risk again.
After discussion with Mr C it agreed  on a balanced attitude  to risk.
AFFS recommended that he switch  from Berkeley Burke  to LV and invest In the 
Vanguard Life strategy 60% Equity  Fund and the LV Balanced Fund.
It agreed to reimburse Mr C any transfer fees incurred and to waive its initial  advice 
fee for the switch and not to take any ongoing advice fee for the next 3 years.  Its 
standard fee structure for this type of advice was 3% initial and 1% a year ongoing.
The value of the fund at its last review on 26 March 2018 was £47,110  which was 
higher that the transfer into Berkeley  Burke 2014.
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators investigated the 
complaint. He concluded that it should be upheld.  AFFS has not replied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
our jurisdiction
AFFS was giving advice  to start a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. We can therefore 
consider a complaint about the advice to start the SIPP. It does not matter whether the store 
pods are a UCIS or not. This is a complaint  that we can consider.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The advice had to 
take account of the relevant rules whether or not store pods were regulated. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that the firm had to obtain enough information 
about Mr Cs circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser was required to give suitable advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about the 
intended investment.  I cannot see how suitable  advice can be given without thinking about  
that investment.  Thats the key message from the regulators  alert issued in January 2013. 
Ref: DRN50580353AFFS knew that Mr C intended to invest in store pods. They should have considered 
whether that was suitable for him.
AFFS says that the adviser did set out some risks of investing in store pods in his suitability 
report. These were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that the investment  in store pods was a high risk investment. They  were not 
regulated whether or not they were  a UCIS. The investments were potentially  illiquid  and 
unsuitable for Mr C.
The charges  for the SIPP meant  that Mr C was likely to pay more than his existing pensions 
or a stakeholder pension. This alone meant the transfer was unlikely  to be suitable  for him.
In my view, suitable advice should have been not to invest  in store pods and not to transfer  
to the SIPP.  Im satisfied  that Mr C would not have  transferred his pensions but for the 
advice given by AFFS.
What loss has been caused by the unsuitable  advice?
The funds were not invested in store pods. Mr C did not respond  to AFFS about making 
investments. However, he was only in the SIPP as a result of the advice he received. AFFS 
then advised him to transfer to a different SIPP.  I think all of these losses were  caused by 
the unsuitable advice to transfer given by AFFS.
Ref: DRN50580354fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  its likely that Mr C would have kept 
his existing pensions  and continued  to pay contributions.
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mr Cs pension plans with Clerical Medical 
and Phoenix Life, if they had not been  transferred to the SIPP.  Any future  
contributions subsequently paid by Mr C to his SIPPs should be assumed to have 
been paid to Mr Cs personal pension plans  for the purposes of this notional 
calculation. These values should  be at the date of this decision.
2. Obtain the transfer value as at the date of this decision  of Mr Cs current SIPP.
3. Add both transfer  values found in 1. The notional value found  in 2. should  be 
subtracted from that amount  to determine the loss as at the date of this decision.
4. If there is a loss, AFFS should pay a sum into Mr Cs pension  plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
5. If AFFS  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Cs pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr C would  have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
6. Pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused  by the loss to his pension fund.
If it is not possible to obtain  the values of Mr Cs original plans, it should be assumed that 
they would  have achieved a return equivalent  to the change in the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index (formerly the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  
Return Index). That is a reasonable  proxy  for the type of return that could have been 
achieved if suitable  funds had been  chosen.
Ref: DRN50580355my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
AFFS should provide  details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5058035