K821x#15the complaint
Ms S says TSB Bank plcs IT problems meant  she wasnt able to increase the arranged 
overdraft on her bank account.  
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems, which impacted on a range of 
services it provides to its customers. Ms S says she tried to increase the arranged overdraft 
on her TSB account in November 2018  first online and then by phone  and by visiting  a 
TSB branch  but it didnt  work. She complained to us in February 2019 because TSB still 
hadnt been able to increase her overdraft limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. She noted that there didnt seem to be any 
financial impact on Ms S  apart  from some call costs TSB had already compensated her 
for. But the adjudicator felt Ms S had been  caused some inconvenience and frustration, so 
she recommended  TSB pay Ms S £150 to compensate her for this. And the adjudicator also 
asked TSB to now increase Ms Ss arranged overdraft limit. 
TSB agreed  with the compensation recommended. But it told us that, whilst Ms S does 
qualify for an increased overdraft, the IT issue means TSB still cant  apply it to her account. 
And TSB also cant say when it will be able to do so.
As Ms S wasnt  happy with this a second  adjudicator reviewed the complaint. Bearing in 
mind that TSB wasnt able to give a timescale  to fix the problem, the adjudicator felt £300  
would be fairer compensation. 
TSB agreed  with the second adjudicators recommendation. But Ms S said that she wont 
accept less than £500.  
As the case couldnt  be resolved informally, its been passed to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £300 compensation (plus call costs) the adjudicators  have already 
recommended is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. 
Overdraft lending  isnt an automatic right for any customer. But in this case  I understand 
TSB is willing to increase  the arranged overdraft  on Ms Ss account  it simply hasnt been 
able to put that increase  into practice, because of a known IT problem. 
I can understand why this is frustrating for Ms S. Shes spent time online and on the phone  
to TSB completing what she says was a time-consuming credit application. And at times  the 
departments she needed to speak  to werent  available  to help her. So this has clearly taken 
up a fair amount of her time and she currently has nothing to show  for it. 
As the adjudicators have already explained,  TSB is working to fix the problem but hasnt yet 
found a way to do so. If and when TSB does fix the problem Ms S should be able to increase 
her arranged overdraft   assuming she still meets TSBs lending  criteria at that time. 
Ref: DRN59464192Unfortunately TSB cant say when that will happen. But, until it does, Ms S is still able to 
make use of her existing arranged overdraft.  And I cant see that being unable  to increase 
her overdraft limit has caused Ms S any financial losses, or any unarranged overdraft 
charges. 
Taking the above into account, I accept that this has had an impact  on Ms S and will 
continue to do so  as its taken up her time and shell have to make sure she stays within 
her existing arranged  overdraft limit to avoid unarranged overdraft charges. But I also think 
the £300 that has already  been recommended is a fair amount to compensate Ms S for this 
level of impact. I dont  think TSB should  be required to pay her any more than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct TSB Bank plc to pay Ms S 
a total of £300 for frustration and inconvenience and £2 for call costs  but only where  it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5946419