K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited (AA) didnt  explain 
all his options when  he took out roadside assistance insurance.
background
Mr G took out cover  with the AA and selected three options including Relay cover. When  he 
renewed his policy a year later, he called AA to discuss the price and this was reduced.  Mr G 
later found  that there was a cheaper option called Local Driver which he thought would be 
more suitable  for his needs. He thought AA should have told him about this and he wanted it 
to refund the difference  in costs between the two options.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mr G 
had initially  selected  the options  that suited him. He thought Mr G had confirmed at renewal 
that he was happy with these options.  AA said it didnt actively  advertise Local Driver cover 
and only offered it at renewal if it was specifically needed. The investigator  thought  this was 
its business decision and we couldnt force it to tell Mr G about the option. 
Mr G replied that he wanted to know how you could specifically request something that you 
didnt know existed. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA has explained  to us that Local Driver provides cover limited  to a twenty  mile radius of the 
consumers home address. It said it was phasing out this product after a trial run. It said it 
was no longer promoting the product, but it was still available to existing customers at 
renewal if a specific need for the limited mileage  was expressed.  
Mr G thought that as the lower cost Local  Driver cover was available to drivers at renewal, it 
should be openly advertised. But I disagree.  I think  its for AA to decide which  products  it 
wants to promote and sell, so long as all customers are treated in the same way. I think  this 
was AAs business decision.  It isnt something that this service would normally interfere with 
as its a legitimate  exercise of its commercial  judgement. 
So Ive looked  to see whether AA disadvantaged Mr G by not offering him Local Driver cover 
at renewal. AA said that when Mr G called it prior to renewal there was no suggestion that he 
didnt require national  recovery  or wanted a limitation put on the recovery  distance.  
I can see that Mr G selected the option  for national  recovery when he first took out his policy. 
I cant see that he told AA that his needs  had changed or that he only drove locally.  When he 
called it at renewal,  he said he was happy  with his cover and asked if there were any 
limitations on the distance for recovery. I think AA reasonably  concluded from this that Mr G 
still required  national recovery. 
Ref: DRN56179402I can appreciate that Mr G wouldnt want to pay for something that he was unlikely to use. 
But I cant say that AA was required to provide him with all the possible options for cover. 
And I cant say that he made his need for only local recovery clear to AA when he called it. 
So I cant say AA has done anything wrong  here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5617940