K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them  a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1995 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P complained to this Service. Mr and Mrs P said they did not need PPI as they 
were both in secure  jobs. The said there was no conversation about PPI. They  said on their 
complaint form they were  complaining about BOS and so this Service investigated  the 
matter against  BOS.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  They  added  the following 
points:
BOS did not sell the PPI policy; 
the policy was sold by an independent  financial  adviser  (IFA) who had nothing  to do 
with BOS;
they had no documents  from around the time of the sale to show who sold the policy 
to them;
they recall the IFA came to their house to sell the mortgage  and PPI;
they think our adjudicator made  incorrect assumptions that BOS  sold the policy, so 
they are generally  challenging  our adjudicators view.
The policy only covered  Mr P so sometimes I will only refer to him alone where appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I first looked at whether BOS  is 
responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint.
who is responsible  for looking  at the PPI mis-sale complaint?
I note that Mr and Mrs P started  their complaint process by submitting a complaint form to 
this Service and naming  BOS as the business  they wished to complain  about.  We started  
the investigation with BOS and BOS accepted liability and sent us its file of documents. It 
had already sent its final response letter to Mr and Mrs Ps representatives.  So I think  this 
Service was correct to continue its investigation against BOS as requested  by Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P now say BOS was not responsible  for the PPI sale. They say an IFA attended 
their home to sell them the mortgage and PPI  but they cannot name him and they have no 
documents from around that time to identify the IFA.
I have seen screenshots from BOSs internal systems about Mr and Mrs Ps account  
holdings; and I cannot see any evidence on them which would  confirm  the mortgage and PPI 
were sold by an IFA, or by any other type of intermediary. We do not have the IFAs name 
and we have not seen  any evidence  which might identify the IFA. So I think this Service can 
only proceed on the basis that BOS is responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint.
the merits of the complaint
Ref: DRN58938592Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I know this will be a disappointment for 
them so Ill set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs P said they did not have  any conversations  about PPI. BOS  said it wouldve 
followed its general sales procedures. It hasnt been  able to produce any documents from 
the time of the sale. However, this policy was sold over twenty years ago, and Im not 
surprised the original documents arent now available.  Taking  all of the above into account,  
whilst I do accept that BOS has presented a limited argument to this part of the complaint, I 
dont think I can agree that Mr and Mrs Ps account  is more  likely to have happened than 
BOSs account. So it seems more likely to me that rather than not being  told about the 
optional PPI, Mr and Mrs P probably  spoke  to a representative who probably told them it was 
optional and so they consented to buy it.
Mr and Mrs P and BOS agree the sale was advised  so I too will continue  on that basis. For 
such sales, BOS to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs. I dont think 
this policy  was unsuitable for them  at the time of the sale and I base  this on the following 
reasons:
Mr P was eligible  for the policy cover. 
It looked affordable  for them and 
it doesnt look like he was affected by the main things not covered by the policy (the 
exclusions).
So I dont  think any of these things made  the policy unsuitable for them.
Mr P told us he wouldve  received good  benefits from his employer if he was off work  
through accident or sickness - but I think the PPI cover couldve paid out in addition to and 
possibly for longer than his sick pay. So I think Mr and Mrs P might still have thought  the PPI 
gave them a useful  benefit.  
For advised sales, BOS  also had to give them enough information which was clear, fair and 
not misleading. I havent seen all the paperwork from this sale,  so I dont know  how BOS  
pointed out all of the exclusions - either  in the documents or in a meeting.  But even if BOS 
had made  all the information clearer, I think its likely they still wouldve bought  the PPI. I say 
this because Mr P was in full time employment and didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions; so he wouldnt have  been  affected  by the main exclusions.
The cost and benefits information  about  the policy may not have been clear, but having 
decided they chose to have PPI, and that it provided  a useful benefit for them  I think they 
wouldve bought  it even if the cost and benefit information had been clearer.  
Taking everything into consideration, Ive decided  not to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN58938593my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc is responsible  for looking at this complaint and 
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5893859