K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2009. Mrs K says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs K applied for her loan and PPI over the internet, and paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs K says that she didnt  know that she could opt out of the PPI policy.  But I think Lloyds 
made it clear  that Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this as it was ten years ago. I say this 
because Lloyds has provided a copy of the paperwork that wouldve been sent to Mrs K after 
she made her application for her to sign  on this the PPI is presented as an optional 
product.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN52496932The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5249693