K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy at the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  has settled a travel  
insurance claim.
Mr W complains on behalf  of them  both.
background 
Mr and Mrs W have  a travel insurance  policy through their bank account which is 
underwritten by UKI. In April 2018,  while  on holiday in Europe, one of their suitcases didnt 
reach their final destination  airport.
They submitted a property  irregularity  report (PIR)  for the missing  case, and the airline paid 
them £1,181, (its obligation under the Montreal  Convention). They  also submitted a claim 
to UKI. They  provided a list of 22 items (including the case),  which they estimated to have 
cost £3,053. They were aware the policy excess was £75 per person (so £150 as its a joint 
policy). So they hoped to receive £1,722 from UKI, being the total claim, less the excess and 
what the airline had paid.  
UKI initially settled the claim  at £400.50,  although it actually sent Mr W £475.50 in error. And 
it paid £50 to reflect the poor customer service. It subsequently made a revised offer of 
£590.50 which Mr W rejected, as he feels hes entitled to the balance.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February in which I considered UKIs 
revised offer to be fair. But I wanted to explain how the figure  had been  calculated as UKIs  
letter had led to some  confusion.
In summary  I said:
Mr and Mrs W provided no proof of purchase for the case or any of the contents;
UKI accepted the PIR as proof  for the suitcase itself (£250), as the airline admitted it 
was lost;
UKI accepted photographs as proof for one pair of shoes, one shirt and one sweater  
(totalling £560)
So the no proof  amount  was £1,312
UKI is entitled to make a 50% deduction from the no proof  amount = £656
Settlement therefore £560 + £656  = £1,216
Deduct excess of £150 and the amount already  paid £475.50  
Additional amount  to be paid to Mr and Mrs W £590.50
Both parties  replied to the provisional  decision. UKI accepted my findings.  Mr W didnt as he 
thinks UKI has erroneously made  a wear  and tear deduction from the with proof  amount. 
He thinks the £560  should be £1,030,  so the additional settlement should  be £1,060.50 
(£1,030 + £656 - £150 - £475.50).
So Im now in a position  to issue my final decision.  
Ref: DRN53641642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed everything again, I dont 
agree with Mr Ws calculation. Let me explain why. 
The starting point  for any insurance claim is the wording of the policy,  including any 
exclusions.
Part 3, section H of Mr and Mrs Ws policy  relates to Baggage claims and says the following:
Special conditions:
You must provide us with proof  of ownership and value for the items for which you 
are claiming to substantiate your claim. If you do not, it may affect  your claim. 
We will make a deduction  for wear and tear for claims for clothing including  sports 
clothing.
The policy document doesnt explain how the claim settlement will be calculated.  Nor does it 
specify the wear and tear deduction, or when it will be applied.  It doesnt provide new for 
old replacement, so a cash settlement based  on the estimated value of the items at the time 
of the loss is fair, and takes  depreciation into account. And it doesnt cover the policy-
holders inconvenience  of being without  their own items, or for the effort  involved in replacing 
them. 
Mr and Mrs W werent able to provide  proof of purchase (receipts or credit card and bank 
statements) for any of the lost items. As well as showing how much  items originally cost, 
proof of purchase also indicates age, enabling the insurer to apply a fair deduction for wear 
and tear. But realistically receipts are unlikely to be available for every single item,  
particularly those which are older,  or of lower  value. So in the absence of anything else,  I 
think it was fair for UKI to consider photographs  of the couple  wearing  some  of the missing 
items to support their claim. So UKI accepted photographs as proof for a pair of shoes and 
two clothing items. 
Where the proportion of the claim which has proof  significantly exceeds  the un-evidenced 
proportion, its industry  practice to accept the claim in full (subject  to other  deductions in line 
with the policy terms). UKIs guidance  says where  a consumer can provide proof for at least 
60% of a claim they will accept it in full. But Mr and Mrs W could only provide proof of 
ownership (the PIR and photographs) for four items  (the suitcase, one pair of shoes, one 
sweater and one shirt) totalling £560, which is only 18% of their claim,  (4 out of 22 items  is 
also 18%). UKI applied  a 50% deduction  to the remaining items to reflect it had no way of 
verifying them or assessing  their value, age or condition.  
I see how the clumsy explanation in UKIs letter of 1 October 2018 has led Mr W to think  a 
wear and tear deduction was made in error. This is because fractions  showing  how many 
items had been  accepted as with proof were expressed as percentages. And as the wear 
and tear deduction is also expressed as a percentage Mr W believes a deduction has been 
applied when it shouldnt  have. I did address this point in the provisional decision, but as Mr 
W is still unconvinced Ill do so again.
The claim included three jumpers, three  short sleeved shirts and two pairs of shoes. UKI 
accepted photos as proof for one of each of these items. So two out of three  (2/3) jumpers  or 
shirts and one of the two (1/2) pairs  of shoes are un-proven. So the percentage of 66% or 
Ref: DRN5364164350% reflects the comparison of proven and unproven items, and doesnt mean any 
deduction has been made.
For example, Mr W claimed for three  £95 jumpers totalling £285. UKI accepted a photo as 
proof for one jumper (evidenced = £95, un-evidenced = £190). So the evidenced item total of 
£560 is made up of the suitcase £250,  one shirt £65, one jumper £95 and one pair of shoes 
£150. Im satisfied this was simply a poorly worded  letter,  and Mr W hasnt  been  
disadvantaged by this.
So I think UKIs revised offer of £590.50  is the fair way to resolve this complaint. Theres no 
provision in the policy to cover the inconvenience  of having to shop for replacement  items or 
for submitting the claim so I make  no award for that. And I think  the £50 already paid fairly 
reflects the trouble and upset experienced by Mr W throughout the claim process.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W £590.50 in line with 
its revised offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5364164