K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  about five short term loans that she took out with Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which  she said were  unaffordable.
background 
This complaint is about five short term loans EFL provided to Ms B between  March 2018 and 
July 2018. The loans were repayable by two to six instalments. Loans 1 to 4 have  been  
repaid. Ms Bs borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan 
numberDate of loanRepayment 
dateLoan  
amountHighest repayment  
amount
1. 26/3/18 24/4/18 £400 Around £119
2. 26/4/18 21/5/18 £250 Around £161
3. 22/5/18 1/6/18 £600 Around £181
4. 20/6/18 20/7/18 £200 Around £135
5. 23/7/18 Outstanding £1,000 Around £386
EFL in its final response letter said that the results of its credit checks left it satisfied that Ms B 
would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments due. It assessed  the affordability  of 
each loan by requesting  income and expenditure details from Ms B. It said that she had 
sufficient disposable  income to repay the loan instalments. On each  application it increased 
the amount of Ms Bs declared credit  expenditure where its credit  check  highlighted different 
expenditure and to bring Ms B in line with statistical average expenditure. But as Ms B was 
experiencing financial hardship,  it offered as a gesture of goodwill  to remove  the interest 
outstanding on Loan 5 which would  reduce  the loan balance to £1,000.
Ms B rejected this offer. 
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Bs complaint  about  all the loans. She said that the information 
gathered by EFL showed that Ms B was having wider money management problems. She 
said that before Loan 1, EFL would  have seen that Ms B had opened  28 credit accounts in 
the previous six months which was a significant amount. This should  have  alerted  EFL to the 
fact that Ms Bs financial  situation  displayed some  difficulty  and looked into this further.  She 
thought that EFL ought to have realised it was unlikely Ms B wouldve been  able to 
sustainably repay  Loan  1 and any subsequent  loans.
EFL disagreed and said that its checks were proportionate especially at the infancy of its 
relationship with Ms B. It was unrealistic  for its underwriter to review every line of a credit 
file prior to lending. This assertion was supported by previous assessments received from 
this service. It had agreed Ms Bs early  loans on the basis that she met its credit  score 
requirements. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms B 
and to EFL on 9 January 2020. I summarise  my findings:
Ref: DRN58231302Id noted that EFL had referred  to previous  assessments received from this service.  But I 
explained that we assessed each case on its own merits.  And it wasnt  always  appropriate to 
compare the outcomes  of complaints without a detailed understanding  of the specific  facts of 
each complaint.
I noted that when  EFL lent to Ms B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that EFL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Ms B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that EFL should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that EFL was required to establish  whether Ms B could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Ms Bs complaint.
EFL had made a number  of checks before it lent to Ms B. It had asked her for details of her 
income and expenditure. Ms B had declared  her monthly income  as between £2,400 and 
Ref: DRN58231303£2,500 and her expenditure had ranged from £889 to ££1,068.  Her declared expenditure 
included credit commitments of between £100 and £180. But EFL had increased Ms Bs 
expenditure to reflect  the additional  outstanding credit it had seen on its credit  check.  So it 
had calculated Ms Bs disposable income as between  £853 and £1,401.
Id also noted  that EFL had checked  Ms Bs credit  file before agreeing to the loans. EFL said 
that it was unrealistic for its underwriter to review  every line of a credit  file prior to lending.  
But Id thought that simply performing  checks wasnt enough. A lender also needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. 
EFL had provided this service with a copy of its credit checks. 
Wed also received a copy of Ms Bs own credit report. 
But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit check,  the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report  would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday  and short  
term lenders reported to the same credit  reference  agencies. So, Ms B might  have taken  
other payday or short term loans shortly before EFLs loan, which might not have been 
identified by EFLs  credit checks.
Loan 1
I could see that the loan was repayable by six repayments to be made every 28 days with a 
highest repayment of £119.09.  I could also see that EFL had calculated Ms Bs disposable 
income as £1,128. Id noted  that EFL had added  an additional amount to Ms Bs declared  
expenses to reflect the additional outstanding credit it had seen on its credit checks. So it 
was aware that Ms B wasnt  declaring  all her credit commitments. 
I could see on EFLs  credit check that Ms B had 15 active credit accounts and that 
28 accounts had been opened  in the previous six months. Ms B had a total outstanding loan 
balance of £10,794. The check showed no county court judgements,  no bankruptcy,  no 
defaults and no delinquent accounts in the previous  twelve months.  But the credit check did 
show an outstanding  loan balance of £646 (described as an unsecured loan but likely to be 
a short  term loan)  with repayments  of £73 and another loan balance (described as an 
advance against  income (or a payday loan)  with a balance of £859  and a regular payment of 
£854.
The credit checks also showed that Ms B had taken  out (and repaid) one payday loan in 
around the past two months with a repayment of £823 and shed taken out (and repaid) a 
further four loans  (described as unsecured loans but likely to be short  term loans) in the 
previous ten weeks  ranging from £50 to £300.  
I thought EFLs credit checks showed that Ms B was facing financial problems. EFL should  
have been aware  from its credit checks that Ms B had an apparent  reliance on other  short 
term loans and had a large current  outstanding total short term loan balance of £1,469 as 
well as long term loans,  mail order and credit card balances which  would have been 
repayable around  the same time that Ms B needed  to make repayments  to EFL. So, I 
thought that EFL should have been concerned about whether it knew  enough  about  Ms Bs 
financial situation before  lending to her, especially  as Ms B was committing to making the 
loan repayments  over six months. So I thought  it would have been proportionate  for EFL to 
have asked some questions about what the credit checks showed. I cant  see that it did this.
Ref: DRN58231304So Id tried to find out more about  this by looking  at Ms Bs credit report  and bank statements 
for the month prior to Loan  1, to see what better  checks would have suggested to EFL.  Id 
noted from Ms Bs bank  statements  that shed appeared to have another  two short  term loans 
from another lender totalling around £1,793. I thought it was clear that Ms B was having 
serious difficulties managing her money  and I didnt think it was reasonable for EFL to lend her 
Loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was taken out just two days after Loan  1 was repaid.  I could see that the loan was 
repayable by two repayments to be made after 25 days and then 31 days later with a highest 
repayment of £161.25.  I could also see that EFL had calculated  Ms Bs disposable  income as 
£1,377. 
I could see on EFLs  credit check that Ms B now had 17 active  credit  accounts and her total 
outstanding loans balance had increased  to £11,559. So EFL would have  been  aware  that 
Ms Bs overall financial situation wasnt improving. Again the check  showed no county  court 
judgements, no bankruptcy, no defaults  and no delinquent accounts in the previous twelve  
months. But the credit check did show an outstanding loan balance  of £739 (described  as an 
unsecured loan but likely to be a short term loan) with monthly repayments of £209 and 
another loan balance  described as an advance against income  (or a payday loan) with a 
balance of £779. And there was another outstanding  loan of £500 (described as an 
unsecured loan but likely to be a short term loan) with monthly repayments of £158.
I thought EFLs credit checks showed that Ms Bs indebtedness was increasing  and that 
Ms B had an apparent reliance on other short term borrowing. She had a large  current 
outstanding total short term loan balance of £2,018 which would have been repayable 
around the same time that Ms B needed to make  repayments to EFL.  So, again I thought 
that EFL should  have  been concerned about  whether  it knew enough about Ms Bs financial 
situation before lending  to her. So I thought  it would  have  been proportionate for EFL to 
have asked some questions about what the credit checks showed. 
Id again tried to find out more about what proportionate checks would have suggested to 
EFL by looking at Ms Bs credit report and bank statements for the month  prior to Loan 2. Id 
noted from Ms Bs bank  statements  that she appeared  to have another  three payday loans 
from other lenders  totalling £700  as well as the short term loans EFL had seen in its credit 
report. So I thought it was clear  that Ms B was having serious problems managing  her 
money and I didnt think it was reasonable for EFL to lend her Loan  2.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was taken out just one day after Loan 2 was repaid and the loan amount had 
increased significantly to £600. I thought the increase in loan amount and the fact that Ms B 
had taken out a new loan so soon after repaying  Loan 2 should have caused some  concerns 
to EFL. I could see that the loan was repayable by six repayments to be made every 28 to 
30 days with a highest repayment  of £180.73.  I could also see that EFL had calculated
Ms Bs disposable income to be £853  which was lower than for her previous loans. 
I could see on EFLs  credit check that Ms B now had 20 active  credit  accounts although her 
total outstanding loan balance had decreased slightly to £11,455.  Again the check showed 
no county court judgements, no bankruptcy, no defaults and no delinquent accounts in the 
Ref: DRN58231305previous twelve months. But the credit check now showed five outstanding loan balances 
(which were all likely to be short term loans). These  included two new short term loans 
totalling £400 as well as the three  shown above in the check  for Loan 2.
I could see that EFLs credit checks showed  that Ms Bs short term loan borrowing was 
increasing and EFL should have  been aware  from its credit checks  that Ms B had an 
apparent reliance on short term borrowing. So, again I thought that EFL should have been  
concerned about  whether it knew enough about  Ms Bs financial  situation before lending to 
her. So I thought it would  have been proportionate for EFL to have asked some questions 
about what the credit checks  showed.  
Again Id looked at Ms Bs credit report and bank  statements for the month  prior to Loan 3 to 
see what better checks would have suggested to EFL.  Id noted that Ms B had another  
outstanding payday loan from another lender for £300 and that the two loans totalling £400 
shown on EFLs credit checks had been repaid by the time Loan 3 was taken out. 
Nevertheless I could see that Ms B still had serious problems managing  her money  and I 
didnt think it was reasonable for EFL to lend her Loan 3.
Loan 4
I could see on EFLs  credit check that Ms B now had 18 active  credit  accounts and her total 
outstanding loan balance had again  decreased slightly to £11,187. Again the check  showed 
no county court judgements, no bankruptcy, no defaults and no delinquent accounts in the 
previous twelve months. But the credit check still showed two of the outstanding loan 
balances shown on earlier checks (which  were both likely to be short term loans) with 
outstanding balances totalling £1,419.  
Again I thought that EFL should have been concerned about whether it knew  enough  about  
Ms Bs financial situation before lending to her. So I thought it would have been 
proportionate for EFL to have asked some  questions about what  the credit checks showed.
Id looked at Ms Bs bank statements for the month prior to Loan 4, to see what  better 
checks would have  suggested to EFL. Id noted  that Ms B appeared to have four outstanding 
payday loans  from other  lenders which would have been repayable  around the same time as 
Loan 4 and which EFL wouldnt have seen  on its credit checks. So I could see that Ms B was 
still reliant on short term borrowing and still had serious problems managing her money. So I 
didnt think it was reasonable for EFL to lend her Loan 4.
Loan 5
Ms B took out Loan 5 three  days after repaying Loan 4. The loan amount had increased 
significantly to £1,000 and the highest monthly  loan repayment had increased substantially 
to £385.61. As Loan 5 was Ms Bs fifth loan in around four months,  I thought that EFL should 
have been concerned that Ms B might have  been reliant on its lending.  And I didnt think  it 
was reasonable  for EFL to base  its assessment before Loan  5 on the information provided  
by Ms B without taking  steps to independently check what  shed declared. So I thought  it 
might have been proportionate  at this time for EFL to have independently reviewed the true 
state of Ms Bs finances. As far as I could see EFL didnt do this. So I needed to think about 
what EFL wouldve seen  if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Again Id looked at Ms Bs bank statements for the month prior to Loan 5, to see what  better 
checks would have  suggested to EFL. Id noted  that Ms B appeared to have seven 
Ref: DRN58231306outstanding short term loans from other  lenders which would have been repayable around 
the same  time as Loan  5. I thought  if EFL had made  proportionate checks, it would have  
been clear to it that Ms B was facing significant problems managing her money and unlikely 
to be able to repay Loan 5 in a sustainable manner. So I didnt think EFL should have given 
Ms B Loan 5.
Subject to any further representations by Ms B or EFL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint and say that EFL should  put things right as follows.
putting things right  what EFL needs  to do
Refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on Loans 1 to 4 and pay interest  of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges  from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
Refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on Loan 5 and pay interest of 8% simple  a 
year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 5;
Apply the refunds referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5 and 
pay any balance  to Ms B; 
Remove all adverse  entries about  Loans  1 to 5 from Ms Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give Ms B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If EFL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Ms B responded to say that she accepted the outcome  in my provisional decision and had 
nothing to add.
Weve not received a response from EFL to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Ms B and EFL have  given me nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  this 
complaint and require EFL to pay Ms B some compensation  as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Evergreen Finance  London Limited,  trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to:
Ref: DRN582313071.Refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on Loans 1 to 4 and pay interest  of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges  from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2.Refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on Loan 5 and pay interest of 8% simple  a 
year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
3. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 5;
4. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5 and    
pay any balance  to Ms B; 
5. Remove all adverse  entries about  Loans  1 to 5 from Ms Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give Ms B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If EFL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5823130