K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
when he attended  a branch to carry out some transactions. 
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr W and RBS so I wont  repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr W went into an RBS branch  in February  2019  intending to pay into his account some  
cheques, and cash some dividends.  He thought  the service he received from two members 
of RBS staff was disgusting, and that they had been  rude and unhelpful. When he left the 
branch he forgot his phone and so returned.  When he did, he saw the cashier  whom  he had 
dealt with, had the phone  on her lap. He asked for it back  and although she gave it to him, 
he said she wasnt initially willing to.
RBS investigated  his complaint and found there had been  a failure in the level of service, 
and so they paid £50 into Mr Ws account to reflect that. However, during the course of this 
services investigation,  RBS changed  their position to say that they didnt think  they acted 
unfairly at all, implying that they ought not to have upheld his complaint in the first instance.
Mr W was unhappy with RBSs response  and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint  
and thought RBS had dealt with his complaint fairly and that they didnt need to do anything 
further. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  appropriate so to do. 
What I need to decide is whether RBS acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr W. I 
take into account both RBSs view and that of Mr W. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single  point  raised, rather to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I am 
bound to reach a decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what  is 
more likely to have  happened in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the 
case. Looking  at the available  evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation  here.  
Sadly there is no CCTV available for me to view as that might  have corroborated  Mr Ws 
account of what  was said and the tone in which it was said. So I must look to the evidence I 
do have, which includes Mr Ws account  and that of RBS. RBS have provided a statement 
from the cashier on duty on the day Mr W went into the branch.  The statement was made  
close to the day of the incident and so the events were fresh  in the cashiers mind.
What appears to have  happened is that when Mr W reached the front of the queue and was 
about to be served  the cashier  asked  him to wait whilst she completed an earlier task she 
had been given for another  earlier customer. That is a reasonable, logical approach  to take.
Ref: DRN51231462It is clear the cashier took a letter with a cheque attached at the bottom of it from Mr W. This 
must be the dividend cheque  Mr W referred to. Mr W gave the cashier his phone which  was 
displaying his account details. The cashier tore the cheque off and paid it into his account 
returning to Mr W the top half of the letter. Mr W asked  for help with putting information  onto 
the top half of the letter,  which needed returning to the company. The cashier said that 
because a queue was building she asked Mr W to take a seat and complete it himself as she 
was unable to do so, the reason being it was not an RBS document and she didnt know how 
to complete it. Although Mr W has said the staff were rude to him, the cashier  has also said 
Mr W was aggressive  and refused  to take a seat. Without listening to an audio recording I 
cant say who is right. 
Mr W left the branch but then returned  to get his phone.  RBS accept that the cashier had the 
phone on her lap together with other  paperwork.  It seems to me that the most likely 
explanation for this is because she still had it from the time Mr W gave it to her, and as the 
branch was busy she hadnt yet managed to get to the point of putting it somewhere safer. I 
appreciate that Mr W views her holding the phone on her lap as somewhat unusual  but I 
cant say that what  she did was wrong, and therefore I cant  say she or RBS acted unfairly. 
Mr W says that the cashier refused to give him the phone back  initially  but her version of 
events is that she simply gave it back to him. Again as there is no evidence to corroborate  
either view  but of course I do note that Mr W did in fact have his phone returned.
This is a complaint  where  there are two very different versions of the events in the branch. It 
is quite common for people to have different  perceptions of what actually happened and from 
their different perspectives, and that is what is likely to be leading to the difference  of opinion  
here. RBS initially accepted some degree of service failure, but other than Mr Ws 
uncorroborated account,  there is no evidence to suggest either  of the RBS staff acted in the 
manner Mr W describes.  But, even  if they had been  rude, then beyond  an apology which Mr 
W has already received,  all that RBS could do was make an offer of compensation. RBS 
have paid £50 to Mr W, and whilst  I acknowledge  Mr W has not asked for this, nor indeed  
sought an increase  in it, I do have to consider whether there is anything RBS should do 
beyond that which they have already done  in order to put matters right. 
Having made the findings I have, I cant say that RBS have acted unfairly here. They  have 
investigated his complaint  and they have apologised  and paid him £50 in compensation. I 
appreciate RBS have  changed their view but nevertheless  they have already paid him the 
money. So, I think RBS have been  more  than reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN51231463my final decision
RBS has already paid £50 to settle the complaint and I think that is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, for the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against  RBS 
and do not require them to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5123146