K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that a new car she acquired with finance provided by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Mrs N got this car in September  2017 with a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) from BMWFS. 
It cost over £40,000 and she agreed to repay the finance at around  £500 a month over four 
years. Mrs N found the brakes were  squeaky  on delivery but she was told this noise would 
settle as they wore in. After several months the squeaking had not reduced and the brakes 
began to make a clunking sound. Mrs N took the car back to the dealer in May 2018,  by 
which time it had been driven just over 7,000  miles. 
The dealer  couldnt hear the squeaking. It agreed  a clunking sound was present but said this 
was normal for this particular car. Mrs N didnt think that was right - given the nature  of the 
sound, as well the volume and frequency. She had cars from the same manufacturer in the 
past and never experienced  this. She took the car back  for further  checks but the issue  
wasnt resolved and she complained to BMWFS. 
BMWFS said the noises  are normal and not a fault and suggested Mrs N could take the car 
back for further investigation if she had ongoing  concerns.  Mrs N didnt think  that was fair - 
as shed already  taken  the car back several  times - and she referred  the matter  to our 
service.
Our investigator was satisfied that the brakes are noisy  which  shouldnt  reasonably  be 
expected in a new vehicle  after this amount  of time and use. He looked  at videos Mrs N 
supplied and thought the noise might be getting  worse. He wasnt  persuaded its likely that 
this is a normal operational  sound  - as it seems to have developed over several  months. 
Hes satisfied theres probably a fault present and BMWFS had the chance  to repair  that. He 
thinks further repair attempts are unlikely to fix things and would just cause undue  delay and 
inconvenience. He recommends Mrs N should  be allowed to reject the car with nothing  more 
owed under the finance.  
BMWFS doesnt agree.  It says Mrs N covered 16,000 miles in twenty months  so she 
exceeded the mileage allowed under the HPA and it would  need  to charge her for over 2,000 
additional miles (pro rata) if the car is returned.  Mrs N says her usage increased  temporarily 
while a second  family  car was off the road but the mileage would have levelled out if shed 
kept the car for the full contractual period - as she would have used it less after the other 
vehicle was repaired.
Our investigator doesnt think Mrs Ns explanation is unreasonable and hes not persuaded 
it is fair for BMWFS to charge for additional  mileage  in the circumstances overall. Hes 
satisfied a courtesy car was provided while  investigations were carried  out so Mrs N wasnt 
left without transport.  He acknowledges Mrs N experienced some upset and inconvenience 
and he thinks it fair that BMWFS should  refund  a percentage of some  monthly payments  and 
pay £150 compensation to reflect this. He recommends  BMWFS should 
end the agreement with nothing further  owing (including in respect of additional 
mileage) and collect the car at no cost to Mrs N;
refund  the deposit and 15% of monthly  payments made from 21 May 2018 onwards;
Ref: DRN55522152pay interest on those refunds at 8% simple  a year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;  
pay Mrs N £150 compensation for trouble and upset; and 
remove any adverse information  from her credit file
Mrs N remained  unhappy. She feels BMWFS  should  have  done  more to investigate  her 
complaint and the car should have gone  back months ago. She would like BMWFS to refund 
the cost of a recent service, amongst other things. 
BMWFS doesnt dispute  the presence of the knocking noise - but says no physical defect 
has been found. It accepts there is an implied term under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
(CRA) in respect of durability but thinks it fair to consider the intended purpose of the 
vehicle. It considers this car is fulfilling that purpose  unhindered - as Mrs N is able to drive it - 
and it is disproportionate  to allow her to reject  the car when theres no performance issue.  
BMWFS asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2019.  My provisional  findings are set out 
below in italics.  
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  available so far to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In considering whats fair and reasonable 
I must take into account relevant law and regulations,  guidance and standards,  regulators 
rules, codes of practice and what I think was good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
BMWFS supplied the car under a HPA so it was required  (under  the CRA) to ensure that the 
vehicle was of satisfactory  quality  when Mrs N got it. The CRA says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account  any description and the price paid, as well as other things. This means 
the level of quality that is satisfactory will vary,  according to individual  circumstances. In the 
case of a vehicle,  its generally reasonable to look at the age, cost and mileage at the point 
of supply. 
The car Mrs N got here was new and cost over £40,000. I think  most people would expect a 
car like this to be fault free at the point of delivery and consider parts  should  last for a 
reasonable amount of time before they need  to be repaired or replaced. There appears to be 
no dispute that the brakes on this car make a noise. Mrs N says this is unacceptable and a 
fault but BMWFS says the noise is normal or characteristic  of this particular model. 
The dealer  seemed to have no difficulty replicating the clunking sound but not the squeaking 
in May 2018.  Ive seen videos Mrs N supplied after that which show  the car in operation.  I 
could hear both clunking and squeaking sounds.  Im not sure if that means the noise has 
increased over time - which our investigator  thinks may be the case.  If it has, I agree this 
would seem inconsistent  with an expected ongoing operational sound. 
I accept cars will make  noises during the course  of normal  operation - and different models 
and makes have different  characteristics. But, I think most people  expect the brakes on even  
an averagely priced used  car to operate without  any significant noise. And I dont  think theyd 
expect a new car like this one to make squeaking and clunking sounds on braking.
Ref: DRN55522153I am satisfied the brake noise here doesnt  sound  right but I have somewhat limited 
information about whats causing  the noise. Like our investigator,  I think it might well have 
been useful to obtain the view of an independent expert. I can see he suggested that to 
BMWFS, but it decided not to do so. 
Mrs N seems to have  been told different things by different  dealers at various times when 
she took this car in for checks. It looks as if she was told the noise was normal at first, but 
then - around the time of the 12 months service - she was told that a strip and clean  should  
resolve the issue and asked  to pay for that. 
Its difficult to see why a dealer would suggest  such remedial work if the sounds are normal  
for this car. And BMWFS hasnt supplied much  evidence to show that the noise made by the 
brakes here is characteristic. Ive seen  nothing,  for example, to illustrate that the same 
sounds are made by brakes in other  cars like Mrs Ns - at similar  mileage. I would have 
thought it shouldnt be too difficult to obtain  that from the manufacturer, if such evidence 
exists. 
Even if it could be shown however that these  sounds are present in other  cars in the same 
range as Mrs Ns vehicle, Id expect  it to be pointed out to her pre-sale - to ensure that this 
specific characteristic was one that a she was happy with. I am aware that the 
manufacturer has highlighted unusual brake noise in information  available  online in respect 
of other  models - so I think it must recognise thats  a sufficiently unusual characteristic to 
require some advance  explanation. Ive seen nothing to show that brake noise is mentioned  
in any relevant literature  provided to Mrs N pre-sale - or to indicate  that it would have been 
apparent on a normal test drive.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not there is something wrong with this car. I cant  be 
certain what that is exactly.  But, I dont need  to diagnose  a specific defect to reasonably  
conclude that the car is faulty. I am not persuaded this issue is likely to have been caused  by 
wear and tear or anything that Mrs N did - given her use and mileage. And Im satisfied it 
was probably present  from the outset.  
Based on the current evidence, I am minded to find this car was of unsatisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied.  The CRA  sets out a number of remedies in this situation. One of those 
is the right to have  one attempt at repair - but, thats  only so long as it doesnt  take too long 
and/or isnt unduly inconvenient for the consumer.  I am satisfied that Mrs N took this car 
back to the dealer a number of times and provided  several opportunities for this issue to be 
investigated and fixed. And it was open  to BMWFS to arrange for the car to be checked  
independently, if it wanted to. 
I am not persuaded it is fair or reasonable for Mrs N to have to wait any longer for this matter  
to be resolved. I am minded to agree with our investigator that she should be allowed to 
reject the car now and receive her deposit back.  Mrs N appears  to have maintained  her 
monthly payments  throughout.  But, if any adverse information has been recorded on her 
credit file, that should be removed and the finance marked as settled. 
I can see that Mrs N has been able to use the car but I find it understandable that she was 
concerned and frustrated  by the noise the brakes make.  And I think she probably 
Ref: DRN55522154experienced a good deal of upset and inconvenience as a result of having  to take the car 
back to the dealer several times to see if this could  be fixed. Our investigator says BMWFS  
should waive additional mileage charges, refund 15% of each monthly  payment made and 
pay Mrs N £150 compensation to reflect  her impaired  use and distress and inconvenience. 
Taking everything thats happened into account,  I dont  think  that sounds unreasonable.     
I can see that Mrs N would  like to have  more compensation for all shes been through.  And I 
understand she would also like to have the cost of the most  recent  service  and some 
insurance and road tax refunded. I am satisfied Mrs N would have had to pay for road tax 
and insurance  in order to be able to drive any car during the relevant period - thats part of 
the cost of motoring.  And, in light of the use that Mrs N had of this car, I am not persuaded 
that it would  be would  be fair or reasonable to require BMWFS to refund insurance or road 
tax or servicing costs.  
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or information by 23 December 2019. I explained that I would  review  all of the 
available evidence after that date and make  my final decision.  
responses received from the parties
BMWFS has accepted  my provisional decision. Mrs N agreed with my provisional 
conclusions in principle  but she asked me to re-consider the amount of redress. In summary, 
she said 
she intended to pay off the finance  and keep this car in the long term - as it is fitted 
with many extras. She calculates that she has spent approximately  £12,000 on the 
vehicle and feels it is unfair that shes  been  deprived of the opportunity  to keep the 
car because of the brake noise;
the car was faulty for longer than it was sound and a refund of 15% a month  is not 
enough compensation as shell receive  less than three  full monthly  payments back; 
and
BMWFS took far too long to sort things out meaning she lost out financially as she 
paid to have the brakes  stripped and cleaned and also had to pay for servicing and 
road tax for a faulty car. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs N feels  really unhappy about  what happened. I appreciate she considers 
BMWFS should have  to pay more by way of a refund and additional compensation. And I 
want to assure Mrs N that I have thought carefully about what  she has said. 
Mrs N told us that she always  planned (from the outset of the HPA) to buy this car when the 
agreement ended. And I understand  she feels now that shes  wasted a good deal of the 
money she spent on the car as she wont be keeping it if BMWFS  takes it back pursuant to 
this decision. I realise this is disappointing for Mrs N but I cant  be certain  what  would have 
happened if the HPA had run its course.  And I am not persuaded that I can reasonably 
require BMWFS to pay additional compensation solely on the basis that she wont have the 
opportunity to exercise the option  to purchase  the car if she decides to accept my decision. 
Ref: DRN55522155I am satisfied that Mrs N was able to drive this car for most of the time she had it, albeit with 
noisy brakes. I remain of the view that its fair Mrs N should pay for that usage. Its not in 
dispute that Mrs N was able to cover more than the distance anticipated (annually) when she 
first took out the HPA. As Ive explained  already,  I understand why that happened and I 
consider it fair that BMWFS should not apply the associated  charges (of 11.24p a mile). But, 
I think it is reasonable to take the fact that those charges  have been  waived into account - 
when looking at whats fair and reasonable overall  here. 
Working out what amounts to fair and reasonable outcome in this sort of situation  is not an 
exact science.  Having considered all of circumstances carefully,  I remain  of the view that the 
redress set out in my provisional decision is fair and I cant  reasonably  require BMWFS to 
pay more compensation  or do anything further.  I realise this decision may come as a 
disappointment to Mrs N but shes not obliged to accept what  I have said - in which  case  it 
remains open to her to pursue this matter  by other means, should  she wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my decision is I uphold this complaint. I require BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) to 
1.take the car back at no cost to Mrs N and cancel  the HPA with nothing further owing;
2.waive any additional mileage charges,  as referred to above;
3.refund  the deposit paid by Mrs N of  £3,000; 
4.refund  15% of each monthly  payment  made from May 2018;
5.pay interest on any refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
6.remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ns credit file and mark the finance 
as settled; and 
7.pay Mrs N £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from the interest payment referred to above, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs N a tax deduction  certificate if she requests one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5552215