K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the service British Gas Insurance Limited has provided  when dealing 
with claims on her home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mrs S has a home  emergency  policy with British Gas. She made a claim on her policy  
following a flood from her bathroom into her kitchen. British Gas arranged  for engineers to 
come round and deal with the problem.  In dealing with the leak they damaged a panel  in the 
bathroom. 
Mrs S complained about damage to the bathroom  and said a plinth in the kitchen had also 
been damaged.  She also complained that some patio  slabs had been removed and when 
they were replaced,  the work was done poorly,  leaving  a trip hazard. British  Gas arranged 
for the bath to be repaired and for the kitchen plinth to be put back. But Mrs S was unhappy 
as she said the plinth fell off a few days later and she had to get this put right.  She was also 
unhappy with the condition of the patio slabs. And she made a further claim relating to her 
doorbell, which she said was left unresolved.
British Gas accepted there had been some issues with the claims and offered compensation 
of £100. But Mrs S remained dissatisfied  and brought  the complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator said it wasnt clear  the condition of the patio slabs  was due to poor work 
and, although  there  was unevenness, they were in a reasonably  level condition. Taking this 
into account, she thought the compensation of £100 was fair.
With regard to the doorbell, the adjudicator noted that British Gas had offered £50 in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused.  And British Gas said it wasnt  aware  there was still 
a problem with the doorbell,  but had offered  to return and deal with this, which  she 
considered to be reasonable. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said British Gas was well aware there  were  still 
problems with her doorbell. And she wasnt happy that shed  had to fix the kitchen plinth 
herself. British Gas said the plinths were simply unclipped, so they could be put back in 
place. 
The adjudicator didnt change her view of the complaint. She said British  Gas records  
showed it had offered  to arrange an appointment to fix the doorbell  but Mrs S hadnt 
confirmed a time for this.
Mrs S has requested an ombudsmans decision. She says British  Gas hadnt offered an 
appointment to fix the doorbell;  the clips on the plinth were  broken when they were  taken 
down; and there was no reference to the shoddy work done to the paving stones.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes  cover for repairs to the plumbing  and mains  electrical  system.  This 
includes cover  for parts and labour. Where something cant be repaired it will be replaced.
Ref: DRN53067092An insurer  should  handle  claims  promptly  and fairly.  
Mrs S is unhappy about repairs  to her bathroom  and kitchen after some flooding. There  were 
some issues  with the work carried out, including damage to a bath panel and kitchen plinth. 
There was a dispute about whether the plinth could simply  be put back  in place  British Gas 
said it could be clipped back,  but Mrs S said the clips were broken. However, the bath was 
repaired and Mrs S arranged for the kitchen plinth to be put right. So these  issues have been 
resolved. 
I appreciate that Mrs S was put to some trouble getting these things dealt with, and that 
would have been frustrating for her. But British Gas paid £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. Taking into account  the nature  of the issues  and the time to resolve them  
my judgment is that £100 is a fair sum to put this right for her.
The other issues concern  the paving slabs in Mrs Ss garden and her doorbell. Mrs S says 
the slabs were lifted when repairs were done to the drain. British Gas says the slabs  werent 
lifted  a CCTV camera was put down the drain, and it was also flushed through,  but this 
was done without lifting the slabs. Ive considered  the notes made at the time and the photos  
Mrs S has provided. I can see some unevenness but its not clear this is due to slabs being 
lifted. I cant be sure but on balance,  I dont think the evidence shows the slabs were 
damaged. 
There were some issues with the doorbell and there were at least  three visits by contractors 
to deal with this. Again, I appreciate that would have  been frustrating for Mrs S and caused 
some inconvenience.  But I think the £50 paid previously is fair compensation for this. British 
Gas says when  Mrs S raised this again, it was left with her to arrange an appointment. This 
is recorded in its notes and was confirmed  to us by Mrs S.
Mrs S says she believes the job was left with the engineers.  At that time her non-working  
day was a Thursday  and so she would have  booked the nearest available  Thursday after 17 
August 2018,  so the work  should have been carried out on Thursday 23rd August but that 
didnt happen.  This isnt recorded in British Gas notes   theres a note dated 14 August that 
it was waiting to hear from Mrs S, who didnt want the available slots that week.  That is 
consistent with what she says about  wanting  to wait until the following week.  But theres  no 
record that she did call to arrange that.
Where the evidence is unclear I need to make a judgment about what I think is most  likely. 
Based on what Ive seen  it seems  more likely to me that British  Gas was waiting for Mrs S to 
confirm an appointment  and this wasnt done. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5306709