K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  mis-sold her pet 
insurance.
background
Miss S bought  insurance in 2016  for her pet. About  six months  after buying the policy her pet 
developed a condition which Red Sands dealt with as a claim. At this point no issue arose  
about any wrongdoing on Red Sands part.
A short while later Red Sands advised  Miss S that her pets  condition was covered for a 
period of 365 days from when it was first noticed. After  this period the policy  would no longer 
cover the condition.
Miss S was unhappy  at learning about the time limited nature of her policy.  She says she 
thought shed bought  a lifetime policy and expected her pets  conditions to be covered for its 
life. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and was of the view that the policy had 
not been mis-sold.  She explained that the comparison website process (also known as an 
aggregator) returned  quotes for policies  and clearly outlined the type of cover including  
accident only, lifetime  and time limited. And the policy documentation Red Sands sent 
Miss S was clear on the type of cover, how long it was valid for and the policy  limitations. In 
particular, the policy schedule clearly set out it was a Prime Plus policy and no lifetime 
condition limit was applicable.  
Miss S says the policy  wording wasnt clear and thinks  the words  time limited should  have 
been used. She says she interpreted the wording  as an annual policy and it was misleading 
that the words  lifetime  limit were used.  Miss S says she read the wording  from cover  to 
cover and was satisfied the policy wasnt time limited. Shed like Red Sands to change her 
policy to a lifetime one and has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. She 
doesnt think screenshots of the sale process  sent by Red Sands should  be considered as 
evidence as they dont relate to her specific sale journey.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Relevant considerations for this complaint include;
Red Sands must communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading 
Red Sands should take reasonable steps  to ensure that a customer  only buys  a 
policy under which  they are eligible  to claim benefits
For non-advised sales,  as this was, Red Sands should provide a key features 
document
Ref: DRN57274522Red Sands must take reasonable steps to ensure a customer is given  appropriate 
information about a policy in good time so that the customer can make an informed 
decision about the arrangements proposed
oThis includes  the policy terms, including its main  benefits, exclusions,  
limitations, conditions  and its duration.
The starting point  for Miss S purchase  was a comparison website and while Miss S 
understandably thinks the screenshots of what was presented to her should be ignored I 
disagree. The comparison website  involved  has a standard format of presenting  pet 
insurance policies  on quote request and its usual for the options to have policy descriptors 
such as accident  only, lifetime and time limited. But this is the first part of the journey and 
Miss S will have  clicked through  to various  other  pages before she could actually buy the 
policy. The aggregator  introduced Miss S to a number of options.
Miss S says she read the policy from cover  to cover and was satisfied that the insurance  she 
was buying wasnt  time limited. So Ive thought carefully about the documentation. The 
policy schedule sets out a table of information about the summary of cover, and of relevance  
it includes this;
Lifetime condition  limit N/A
Claims limited  to 12 months Yes
While lifetime is mentioned I disagree  that its misleading in so far as the policy providing 
lifetime cover. N/A is widely recognised as meaning not applicable or not available and Im 
not persuaded that its presented in a way that suggests, let alone  confirms, the policy  
offered lifetime cover. And Im satisfied that as presented the schedule makes  it clear that 
claims are limited  to 12 months duration.
The policy booklet  front cover  says Your Complete Guide to Your  Basic,  Basic  Plus,
Prime & Prime Plus Pet Policy and so Im satisfied this doesnt represent its a lifetime policy 
and there  is no mention  of lifetime in the booklet  itself.  In the key facts section at the start of 
the booklet, under what is covered, it says Cover is provided  for up to 365 days  only from 
the date of occurrence, up to the amount specified in your policy  limit. Im satisfied this isnt 
misleading in such  a way to imply that the policy is a lifetime one.
Im satisfied that the documentation clearly set out the type of policy  and that it wasnt  
misleading regarding  having lifetime cover. Red Sands  gave sufficiently appropriate 
information, including a key facts document,  to Miss S so that she could decide whether the 
policy was suitable  for her. That document set out a main benefit and limitation regarding the 
365 days duration.  She was clearly eligible to benefit from the policy  given the claim that 
Red Sands  dealt with. Im not persuaded that the policy  was mis-sold.
While weve been looking into Miss S complaint issues have arisen with the exclusions Red 
Sands placed  on her policy.  These  are now subject to a separate complaint that Red Sands 
is aware of and dealing with. 
Ref: DRN57274523my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5727452