K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G took out a store card in 2001. PPI was added on the phone  shortly after. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs G to take out the policy. But, it did have to give her enough clear 
information to decide for herself if the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it. 
Mrs G had a pre-existing medical  condition (PEMC) at the time PPI was added. This was 
diagnosed around five years earlier and she was taking medication  for it. She said shed not 
had to take time off work because of it. I think it unlikely that her PEMC wouldve been 
covered under the policy.
She said she was eligible  to get up to 12 months  worth of sick pay through  work (six 
months worth at full pay and six months worth  at half). I think she probably wouldve still 
been covered  through her public sector employers work benefits if she was off work 
because of her PEMC.  She said shed been  working  for her employer for 26 years  and also 
had savings. She also said her husband  wouldve helped meet her repayments. So, she 
didnt need or want PPI.
I think had she been given clearer information about the limitations on cover and understood 
she wouldnt  have been fully covered under  the PPI policy, I dont think  she wouldve thought  
it worth  it to her, given  her circumstances and other  resources. I say this because likely she 
wouldnt have been able to benefit  from everything the policy  offered.  I think it unlikely that 
she wouldve taken out PPI, so, I think that shes lost out as a result  of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs G would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN53513312So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs G paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest 
on the extra Mrs G paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs G wouldve owed FICL something on her credit  card. The interest rate should  be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and order Financial Insurance Company Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5351331