K820x#14complaint
Mrs W and Mr B are Trustees who have been  appointed to look after a large  sum of 
inheritance money  for a Trust. Ill refer to them as the Trustees from now on. 
The Trustees complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) opened the wrong  
type of account  delaying  the investment of the inheritance money. The Trustees  also 
complain about  the service they received from NatWest throughout. 
background
The Trustees approached NatWest in February 2018 to open  a Trust account into which  the 
inheritance money  could  be transferred.  The Trustees say they planned to invest  the money  
once it had been transferred into the Trust account.  They say they started to explore 
investment options  around the same  time they approached NatWest. In June 2018  the 
solicitors who had received the inheritance money tried to transfer  the inheritance money  to 
the Trustees but the transfer  didnt go through because NatWest had opened an Executor 
account instead of a Trust account.  
NatWest opened  the correct Trust account  in July 2018  and the solicitor successfully 
transferred the inheritance money in. The Trustees moved  funds out the account to 
investment products in September 2018. 
The Trustees complained to NatWest  about the delay  in opening the correct  account and the 
service they had received in branch. NatWest apologised and offered £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused. However,  the Trustees werent happy and complained  
about having to take time off work  to go to the branch  and spending a lot of time trying  to 
resolve NatWests error. NatWest apologised and offered a further £200 (£400 in total) 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  and £10 for every hour they spent trying  to 
resolve this problem.  
The Trustees brought their complaint to us because they didnt accept NatWests offer. Our 
investigator agreed that NatWest had made several errors but felt its offer for compensation 
was fair. The Trustees disagreed with the level of compensation and said the delay  in 
opening the correct account had also caused a financial loss  they said that the money  
would have been invested earlier and the Trust has lost out on investment returns  as a 
result. They  have asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Trustees have  asked me to look into a number of service  issues,  including the delay in 
opening the correct Trust account and the inconvenience caused by staff errors. Its clear  
from NatWests  responses that it accepts  the service was poor and has offered 
compensation on that basis.  So the main issue I have to decide is whether or not the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Both parties  accept that the Trustees  had to go into the branch  several  times after NatWest 
opened the wrong account. Due to errors in branch, the Trustees  spent a lot of time 
Ref: DRN53477282providing documents (some more than once) causing further inconvenience and delays. 
They also had to take time off work  to go to the branch.
I appreciate there were a number of other  service issues, which  resulted in increasing 
dissatisfaction. However,  after carefully  considering the impact all service  issues  had on the 
Trustees, I think the compensation offered by NatWest reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking 
NatWest to do anything  more regarding this aspect  of the complaint. 
With regards to delays  in investing the inheritance money, the Trustees  have provided me 
with a timeline of events  leading up to the investment. I have reviewed this timeline and have  
considered whether NatWests errors  meant  there was a delay in the Trustees investing and, 
if so, whether this caused a financial loss. 
The Trustees started looking at investment options  in January 2018 and met with an 
investment company in May 2018. However,  the Trustees didnt have an investment  product 
lined up in June  2018, when the solicitor originally tried to transfer the inheritance money  to 
NatWest. The Trustees also didnt have anything arranged for July 2018,  when  the solicitor  
successfully transferred the inheritance  money to NatWest. In other words, the Trustees 
werent in a position to invest the money before NatWest opened the correct Trust account  
and the inheritance money was available to invest or, for that matter, when the account was 
actually opened.
The Trustees first met with the investment company they would later invest with in July 2018 
 around the same  time NatWest opened the Trust account. The Trustees  didnt invest  the 
inheritance money  for another two months  in September 2018. Whilst I appreciate that the 
delay in opening the Trust account would have been a distraction  for the Trustees, I dont 
think it prevented them  from making  arrangements to invest  the money  in anticipation  of its 
transfer. So, I dont  think the delay in investing the inheritance money was down to the delay 
in opening the Trust account. Nor do I think the Trust has suffered a financial loss as a result 
of the delay in opening  the Trust account. So it wouldnt be fair to say NatWest  should 
compensate the Trust for a financial loss.
my final decision
I am aware  that National  Westminster Bank Plc has made an offer to pay £400 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  and pay £10 for every hour the Trustees spent 
trying to resolve this problem. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and my decision is that National Westminster Bank  Plc should pay what it has 
offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347728