K820x#14complaint
A limited company, which  Ill call DPC, is unhappy  with how long it took National 
Westminster Bank Plc to open a bank account  for it. DPCs director, Mr P, brings the 
complaint on its behalf. 
background
DPC wanted to open a bank account.  It made  an online application to NatWest. But when it 
didnt hear anything, Mr P called the bank. He was told further information was needed. The 
bank took these details from Mr P. The following  day NatWest  sent Mr P an email with the 
remaining forms that needed to be signed  and returned. 
When the bank  received  the forms back,  it told Mr P the application was being fast tracked  
and he should  hear something  in two to three  working days. Mr P called NatWest again two 
days later.  The bank then told him it could be five to seven working days  before any account 
details were available.  It also said it couldnt see that this application  was being fast tracked. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with this. So he complained, on behalf of DPC, about  the delay. He said 
because he didnt have  a business  account,  the agency he was working for was paying him 
on a Pay As You Earn (PAYE) basis. This was less then he would get as a limited  company.
NatWest upheld the complaint about the service it gave to DPC. It paid £270 into Mr Ps 
bank account.  Shortly afterwards, DPCs bank account was opened. 
DPC wasnt happy with the amount of compensation NatWest  had paid. So, Mr P brought 
the complaint,  on DPCs behalf, to our service. One of our investigators looked into this 
issue. In short, she thought the compensation NatWest had paid to DPC was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with this. In brief, he said:  the further information that was needed was 
due to being given incorrect information by NatWest; the bank was at fault for the long 
delays; DPC  wouldnt  have received anything if Mr P hadnt  repeatedly  called the bank; it 
failed to fast track the application;  in earlier conversations, the bank  failed to tell Mr P that a 
second signature was needed; and, he expected a far better service from NatWest.  
As Mr P, on behalf of DPC,  didnt  accept our investigators view, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did NatWest act fairly and reasonably when dealing with DPCs bank  account  application? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
Ref: DRN53077442it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I want to make it clear that its DPC  which is NatWests customer  here, not Mr P. The 
complaint is about  DPCs account application.  DPC is a totally  separate entity to Mr P, who 
is its representative. As a standalone entity, DPC  cant suffer  distress  or upset in the way an 
individual person, such as Mr P, can. While I accept hes been  frustrated by this issue,  as 
Ive just said, he isnt the banks  customer here, DPC is. 
But DPC can be inconvenienced. I dont need  to decide if this was the case here. Thats  
because NatWest accepts  that DPC was inconvenienced by the service the bank provided. 
So, what  I need to decide is if the amount of compensation its already paid is fair and 
reasonable. 
I can see that DPC applied online to open the account on 5 February 2019. The account  was 
opened 17 working days later. On the face of it, that doesnt seem  excessive  to me. So Ive 
looked at if there were  any avoidable delays that would  have inconvenienced DPC. 
Once the application was made, there was no contact till Mr P called NatWest on 
14 February. This was only seven  working days since the application.  On this call, the bank 
discussed the ownership of DPC.  It seems  that at that time, DPC was jointly  owned by Mr P 
and another person. But only Mr Ps details  were on the application. 
Ive listened to this call. Mr P tells the bank that its his mistake that the other persons details 
werent included.  NatWest also talked to Mr P about  two other  discrepancies with the 
application. Hed said he had an existing  NatWest business account;  and, that cash  would 
be paid into the account. Neither  was correct. Mr P again told the bank these  errors  were 
down to him. 
Mr P has since said the application was completed  on the advice of a bank representative. 
But Im not satisfied that this was the case. The available evidence shows  the application  
was made  online  not face to face in branch, nor on the phone  with the help of NatWest. 
Having listened  to this phone call, I can see that NatWest clarified all the details with Mr P in 
order to get the correct  information for the application to be assessed. 
This initial hold up of seven working days was due to incorrect and incomplete information 
being provided to NatWest by DPC.  So I dont  think this was the fault of the bank, or that this 
delay was excessive.  
Mr P told our investigator  that the bank  failed to inform him on an earlier call that the second 
directors signature was needed. But I dont agree this was the case. The available  evidence 
shows this call was the first one made to NatWest, and it clearly told Mr P that both directors  
would need to sign the application. 
On that call, the bank agreed  that it would email the relevant forms to Mr P. But he called 
back the following  day  a Friday  as he hadnt  received anything.  The bank then emailed 
the forms to him while he was on the phone. I would point out that this was less than 
24 hours from the previous days call. So while I accept there was a very slight hold up, I 
dont agree with Mr P that there was a long delay. 
Mr P completed the forms over the weekend  and returned them to NatWest.  When  he called 
the bank on the Monday afternoon, it confirmed  it had the forms and these would be 
Ref: DRN53077443processed over the next two to three working days. When  Mr P asked if this could be fast 
tracked, NatWest told him that two to three  days was a fast as it could be looked  at. 
Mr P called back two days later. I accept he would have been frustrated to be told that it 
would be another  five to seven working days before  DPCs account would be opened. I think  
the bank could have given  clearer information here.  
I can see from the banks  records, once the forms were returned to NatWest, it then 
considered whether or not it would approve  the application. It seems  that the application 
wasnt approved  straight away.  The bank needed  to carry out further  investigations before 
making that decision. These investigations didnt require it to get any further  information  from 
DPC. 
I would point out here that its entirely  down to NatWest to decide if, and on what terms, it 
wants to give a bank  account to a particular business. This is a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement. There was no automatic obligation for it to provide DPC with banking  
facilities. 
We wont usually interfere  with a banks commercial judgement, as long as its been 
exercised fairly and reasonably. Here,  the account was opened 8 working  days after DPC  
had returned the completed forms. I can see the bank was making legitimate underwriting  
enquiries during  this time. So, while it could have  been a bit clearer  in its communications  
with DPC  while  this was going on, I dont  think this timescale was excessive, unacceptable 
or unreasonable. 
I can fully appreciate that Mr P would have felt frustrated while waiting  for the account  to be 
opened. But there would always have needed to be a transition period  between Mr P being 
paid through his agency on a PAYE  basis, and the agency then being able to pay DPC 
without deducting  Mr Ps tax. Im satisfied NatWest wasnt responsible for how long this took.
For example, I can see that DPC was incorporated on 28 January 2019.  But it was still six 
working days before it applied to NatWest. In any event, even after Mr P stopped being 
taxed by the agency, it seems to me there  would  still have been a tax liability to be paid by 
DPC once  this transition had completed. 
After taking everything into account, if NatWest hadnt already paid anything to DPC, I would 
have been minded to make an award of between £50 and £100. This would have been for 
the very slight delay  of less than 24 hours in emailing the relevant forms to Mr P, and for the 
banks unclear communications while it considered DPCs application.  
Given that the bank  has already paid DPC in excess of this, Im satisfied its dealt with this 
complaint fairly and reasonably. Theres no basis for me to direct NatWest  to do, or pay, 
more than its already  done. 
Ref: DRN53077444my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf  of 
DPC, to accept or reject  my decision  before 30 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5307744