K820x#14complaint
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance plc (St 
Andrews) has accepted responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews Insurance 
plc has also agreed  it is responsible for the complaint. To make  things easier  Ive referred  to 
St Andrews  throughout my assessment.
Mr and Mrs V say St Andrews  mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V had a mortgage with their lender since 1999. In 2009 they took out a PPI 
policy and paid a monthly amount for the policy, which  provided  cover if Mr V couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs V disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Vs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs V have given us their best recollections  of the events of 2009. 
Ive thought carefully about what they have said, including that they dont  think  they agreed 
to the PPI. St Andrews has denied this. I think St Andrews made it clear that Mr and Mrs V 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out. In saying this Ive thought about 
how Mr and Mrs V had held the mortgage  for many  years before  the policy started. So it 
seems unlikely they would have felt they had to take it out to keep a mortgage they already 
had. And we have  seen  telephone scripts for sales  made  that way at this time. They suggest 
that St Andrews would,  most likely, have had to get the agreement of Mr and Mrs V before 
they would  have set up their cover.  
So, I think it more likely  that Mr and Mrs V agreed to the PPI and knew this was something  
they didnt have to take out, even  if they cant remember that now.  
St Andrews  said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs V. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for them.  I dont know  how that was 
achieved at the time, but looking at Mr Vs circumstances  in 2009 I think such a 
recommendation wouldve been  reasonable. I say this because:
Mr V was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a claim. 
Mr V said he wouldve got sick pay indefinitely from his employer. But his employers 
letter said that this would be reviewed. It was, therefore, not guaranteed. The PPI 
provided cover for up to 12 months in the event that Mr V was too ill to work for an 
extended period,  or if he lost his job. So, considering all of this, and the potentially  
Ref: DRN59711972serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on their home, I think  Mr and 
Mrs V couldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been  comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable. 
I dont know what information Mr and Mrs V were given about the policy  during the phone 
call, so its possible they didnt get everything  they needed. But for the same  reasons given 
above that made me think the policy was suitable  for them, I dont think more  or better 
information wouldve  made a difference to their decision  to buy it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. And I make no 
award against St Andrews Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5971197