K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund debit card transactions  that she 
says she didnt make or authorise.  It has also recorded fraud related markers against her 
record.
background
Miss K had an account with Barclays since early 2014. At the end of July 2014 she was 
arrested and remanded  in custody. She was later convicted and her sentence lasted until the 
end of January  2018.
Between October 2014 and March  2015 a number  of transactions  (both credit and debit) 
took place on Miss Ks account. She says they werent authorised by her. A credit amounting 
to just over £3,200  was paid into Miss Ks account  towards the end of February 2015. It was 
all removed within a few days. Barclays was then told that the credit was fraudulent  and it 
decided to close the account  immediately.  It recorded a CIFAS and Hunter fraud  marker 
against her name. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud  alert services. The Hunter  marker applies 
only to Barclays Group.
Miss K says that she didnt have her card on her at the time of arrest and she wasnt  able to 
return to her home where  the card was. She thinks  that a friend, who had a key to her flat, 
might have used her card and logged on to her account, without  Miss Ks consent.  Her PIN 
was on a piece  of paper in her purse and her online  banking log in details  kept at her home. 
Barclays has refused to refund the disputed  payments.
Miss Ks complaint was looked  at by an investigator who didnt think  that Miss K had 
authorised someone  else to use her account or card during the time she was in prison.  He 
didnt think she was grossly negligent  or failed with intent to keep her PIN or online banking 
details safe as she had these in her own home. He noted that Barclays  had already removed 
the CIFAS marker and downgraded its Hunter marker. It had offered £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill but he thought Barclays should  refund  the disputed transactions and pay a total of 
£300 for the inconvenience these markers  caused Miss K because she was without a bank 
account for about  seven months.
Barclays disagreed.  It said that it thought Miss K had been negligent because she allowed 
others to use her home.  Miss K also disagreed. In summary, she didnt think that a total of 
£300 was enough compensation for the inconvenience the markers  had caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
The basic  position  is that Barclays can hold Miss K liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that she made them  or authorised  them. Its clear 
that she couldnt have carried out the transactions personally given the dates of her prison 
sentence. Barclays  also accepts that Miss K didnt  carry out the disputed transactions 
herself. It has offered,  as a gesture of goodwill, to refund £200, which was the credit balance  
on the account at the time the first disputed  transaction took place.
Ref: DRN58451252So I need to come to a view about  whether the evidence suggests its more likely  than not 
Miss K authorised or consented to the payments. But for me to be satisfied that these 
payments were authorised, I first need to determine  whether they were  authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features.
Due to the passage of time, Barclays hasnt been able to provide  evidence of how the 
payments were authenticated. But given the types of transactions,  I think  it likely that both 
the genuine card and PIN were required.  But this, on its own,  isnt enough for Barclays  to 
hold Miss K liable. 
I dont believe that Miss K authorised or consented to the payments. And Barclays has said 
that it believes the activity on Miss Ks account  was carried out fraudulently. But it considers  
that Miss K should be held liable because  she failed to protect her card details. Generally 
account holders  must take all reasonable steps to keep their cards and security details safe 
and must  tell their bank,  without undue delay, if their card is lost or stolen, or used without 
their consent. So Barclays can hold Miss K liable if she failed with intent  or was grossly 
negligent with her card and bank details.
Miss K has said that a friend  had access to her flat where her card and bank  details were  
kept. She thinks that this friend may have been behind the account activity.  Although  they 
cant say exactly when,  Miss Ks solicitors  have confirmed that they entered  her flat to collect  
all her personal possessions. I think Miss K was entitled to believe that her bank card was 
amongst the items collected  by her solicitors. But they have  now said that Miss Ks purse, 
containing the bank card, wasnt part of the items  they collected. Given this, it seems  that the 
purse, with her card and PIN, was taken from her flat by someone else.  
I think the same person  also used Miss Ks online banking  log on details.  Miss K only used 
on line banking once,  shortly after she opened  the account. The next time it was used was 
when Miss K was in custody. So I think it likely that someone close to Miss K carried  out the 
withdrawals and was responsible for the fraudulent  credit.
I dont think it was grossly negligent for Miss K to keep her banking details at her own home. 
I accept that she knew  that third parties  did have access  to her flat, but the only person that 
had a key was a friend that she trusted.  Im not persuaded that this amounted  to gross 
negligence, such  that it was a serious and significant degree of carelessness. I dont think  
Miss Ks bank details  would have been uppermost in her mind when she was arrested.
After very careful consideration, and on balance, Im satisfied that Miss K didnt authorise  or 
consent to the transactions and I dont consider she was grossly negligent or failed with 
intent to keep  her PIN and online banking details safe. So I find Barclays  should refund  the 
full credit of £217.28.  Barclays  has already written off the overdrawn position  on the account 
following the fraudulent credit  to the account. It should not pursue her for this and remove  
any adverse information  on her credit file relating to it.
CIFAS
Barclays recorded fraud related markers against Miss K when it closed her account in 2015. 
Miss K tried to raise a complaint about  the disputed activity on her account in June 2017 but 
Ref: DRN58451253Barclays told her she couldnt. In September 2018, after she complained again, it agreed to 
remove the marker. 
If Barclays had investigated when Miss K first complained  in 2017, I think  it is reasonable to 
assume that it would  have  removed the marker then. Barclays  has suggested that it 
shouldnt have removed  the marker in 2018 because Miss K was negligent.  But CIFASs 
standards for recording  a marker are very high. Barclays must show there are reasonable 
grounds to believe  that Miss K committed or attempted  a fraud or financial crime. Overall I 
dont think it has. Theres enough evidence to suggest Miss K didnt receive the funds.
As a result of the marker, Miss K had problems opening a bank account after she left prison  
in January 2018. So I consider she suffered difficulties because of the marker  for about 
some seven months or so, for which Barclays should pay some  compensation. It has already 
offered a goodwill payment of £200, but I dont think this is enough.  I think a further £100 is 
fair.
Barclays has also recorded a Hunter marker. This only relates  to the Barclays group and, as 
banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether or not to do business  and if so on what 
terms, I cant ask it to remove  this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1.Refund the disputed transactions totalling £217.28
2.Add interest at 8% simple to this amount from 31 January 2018 (the date Miss K was 
released from prison) to the date of the refund
3. Pay a total of £300 for the trouble  and upset it has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.  
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5845125