K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Ms K complain about the poor service they received from Aviva  Insurance  Limited 
when they contacted its medical assistance team  whilst abroad.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 29 November 2019. A copy of this is 
attached below and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this 
complaint and I explained why I thought  Aviva needed to do more to put things right for Mr P 
and Ms K. I said I thought it would be reasonable for it to pay them a total of £300  
compensation, in addition  to the £50 excess  waiver  it had agreed. And I asked it to settle this 
claim, and apply 8% simple interest  to the settlement amount, to be calculated  from 23 June 
2018.
Neither party has responded with any comments about my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any further  comments or evidence  from the parties, 
Ive reached the same  conclusions that I did in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  should;
Pay Mr P and Ms K £300 compensation
Waive the applicable £50 policy excess
Pay this claim in line with the remaining policy terms  and conditions  and apply 8% 
simple interest to the claim settlement, calculated  from 23 June 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P and Ms K complain about the poor service  they received  from Aviva  Insurance Limited when 
they contacted its medical assistance team whilst abroad.
background
Mr P and Ms K have travel insurance  through their bank account. This insurance is underwritten by 
Aviva. 
In May 2018  they travelled abroad. Whilst they were there Ms K required  medical treatment.  
Ref: DRN50338592Mr P and Ms K complain that they were directed to three different hospitals by Avivas medical  
assistance team before  they found one that could suitably  treat Ms K. Theyre also unhappy that they 
werent made aware of the £50 policy  excess when  they contacted  Aviva to advise of their potential 
claim. And theyre  frustrated that there have  been  delays in this claim being paid.
Aviva explained that it had no way of knowing that the first two hospitals  wouldnt be able to treat Ms 
K. It said it was sorry for not making them aware of the policy excess, but that it was Mr P and Ms Ks 
responsibility to check the terms  and conditions  of their policy prior to departing the UK. It also 
accepted that there had been a delay in processing their claim,  and offered them  £100 compensation  
to apologise.
Mr P and Ms K werent happy with this response, so they brought  their complaint to our service.  They 
want Aviva  pay their claim and give them a written apology and £500 compensation  for its mistakes.  
Our investigator agreed that Aviva should do more to put things right. They thought  it ought to have 
reasonably paid Mr P and Ms Ks claim by 23 June 2018. So asked it to make this settlement, plus 
8% interest  calculated  from this date. They also asked Aviva to waive the £50 policy excess  in 
addition to the £100 compensation it had already  offered.
Aviva agreed  to our investigators recommendations. But Mr P and Ms K didnt. They  dont feel the 
investigators award sufficiently took into account the distress and inconvenience they experienced 
here. And theyre upset  that Aviva werent  able to offer better  information  about  the hospitals they 
visited. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr P has put forward  a number  of arguments as to why he feels  it would be fair for Aviva to pay £500 
compensation to resolve this complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  what  hes said. And overall  I think  Aviva should  increase its offer of 
compensation. But I think  a total of £300 compensation,  in addition to the policy excess waiver and 
interest payment Aviva  has already agreed to, would  be reasonable put things right here. Ill explain  
why.
Mr P has referred to the pain and distress Ms K suffered during this medical emergency. Im very 
sorry to hear what happened, and appreciate  the difficult experience she had. But to be clear, I cant 
take the impact  of the medical emergency itself into account when  considering what  Aviva should do 
to resolve this complaint.  I can only look at the actions Aviva took (or ought to have taken), and 
consider whether these were  reasonable  in the circumstances. And if they werent, then I have  to 
think about the impact  these actions had on Mr P and 
Ms K.
 
Mr P and Ms K visited three hospitals before they found  one that was able to assess Ms Ks condition. 
I understand the inconvenience this must have entailed, and why this would have  caused them  
considerable concern in the circumstances.   
Ive listened to the initial  call Mr P and Ms K made to Aviva. They explained  their concerns, and Ms K 
told the advisor that she wasnt familiar  with the Italian healthcare system,  and was unsure  whether  
local hospitals  would  have the necessary facilities  to help.  The advisor asked where she was thinking 
of going, and Ms K told her the name of the nearest hospital and gave her the details so that she 
could look at it. Aviva  confirmed it was a public facility and that there was no indication from its 
records that it wasnt medically sound. 
Ref: DRN50338593I understand this hospital did have an A&E department,  but not a gynaecology department.  And so it 
didnt have the relevant  expertise to help Ms K. I can see why the advisor might  not have  realised this. 
But Aviva  has told us that it should always check whether a hospital is equipped to deal with the 
particular medical condition. And I note the policy  terms and conditions  state that it will contact 
hospitals where  necessary. I can hear that Mr P and Ms K had described Ms Ks medical condition  in 
detail. And in these particular  circumstances  I think its clear  she was likely to need access to 
specialists and / or scanning equipment.  So I think  it would have been reasonable for Aviva to have 
made further checks here. 
Aviva has suggested Mr P and Ms K had already decided they were visiting this hospital  before they 
contacted it. But this isnt the impression  I got from the call. I think  they simply relayed  the name of 
hospital they were staying  nearest too, and asked Aviva to check  if it would be able help them.
Aviva did make contact  with the third hospital prior to Mr P and Ms Ks arrival to confirm  that it would 
be able to assist them. But for the reasons Ive outlined above  I feel it wouldve  been appropriate for it 
to have acted more  proactively and taken these  steps  at an earlier  stage. And I think  it would be fair 
for it to pay Mr P and Ms K an additional  £200  compensation to apologise for distress and 
inconvenience caused  by the poor service they received  here.
Mr P feels that Aviva should have had better information about the services provided by different 
hospitals. Hes also told us he wants Aviva  to outline  what actions it will take to avoid these issues 
happening again in the future. 
I appreciate he feels very strongly  that Aviva could improve its service. But its not my role to make  a 
general assessment of Avivas processes and procedures. This service  looks at individual complaints. 
So whilst Im sure Aviva likely reviews complaints and considers feedback it gets from its customers, 
Im afraid Im not in a position  to ask it to make changes to the level of information it holds about  
medical facilities, or its processes for helping  policyholders find medical assistance.
 
Aviva has already agreed to waive the £50 policy  excess. And accepted that it should  have settled  
this claim sooner. So I dont think there is any need for me to repeat the details of this aspect  of the 
complaint here. I agree  Aviva should compensate Mr P and Ms K for this delay and pay interest on 
the claim settlement amount. And I think its offer of £100 was fair to resolve this point.
So, overall,  for the reasons  Ive outline above, I think Aviva should pay Mr P and Ms K a total of £300 
compensation to reflect the poor service it provided to them  and resolve this complaint. This should 
be paid in addition to the policy excess waiver  Aviva  has already agreed.  And if it hasnt done so 
already, Aviva should settle this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
And apply  8% interest to the claim payment,  calculated  from 23 June 2018.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Aviva Insurance Limited should;
Pay Mr P and Ms K £300 compensation
Waive the applicable £50 policy excess
Pay this claim in line with the remaining  policy terms and conditions and apply 8% interest to 
the claim settlement, calculated  from 23 June 2018.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033859