K820x#14Complaint
Miss T complains through her representative that her motor insurer,  UK Insurance  Limited
(UKI) valued  her vehicle  below market value. When I refer to UKI that includes any 
contractors or firms  they appointed to handle or process any stage of Miss Ts claim, unless 
otherwise stated.
Background
Miss T has a car insurance policy through one of the trading names of UKI. As UKI is the 
underwriter of the policy and is therefore  responsible  for this complaint, Ill refer to it 
throughout.
Miss T was involved in a car accident in April 2019, which resulted in her car being deemed 
to be beyond economic repair. The third party accepted liability in full. Whilst pursuing
settlement on behalf of Miss T, UKI provided her with a hire car.
As the car was beyond economic repair, UKI advised Miss T that her claim would  be a total
loss claim and as such she would be paid the market value for her vehicle. The value they
placed on Miss Ts car was £2,700. UKI transferred this sum into Miss Ts bank  account.
Having conducted  her own search online  for a similar car, Miss T found  cars retailing for
between £4,000 and £5,000. With this knowledge,  she made contact with UKI in an attempt
to have the valuation increased.  In their response  they explained that they use a market
leading motor vehicle  valuation guide  and take into account any relevant factors (for
example the mileage). After reviewing their valuation, UKI were satisfied that it was a fair
and accurate reflection of the market value of Miss Ts car and did not increase the
valuation.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and her complaint was two-fold:
1.Miss T was unhappy with the valuation UKI assigned to her car. She believed  that as 
the accident was not her fault, she should be put back  in the position she would have  
been in had the accident not occurred.  And due to the retail value of a similar car 
being an average of around £4,500, UKI should  pay something similar to her; to 
enable her to purchase a similar  car.
2.Miss T was also unhappy  that once UKI transferred the settlement figure into her 
account, she had to return the hire car within seven days. This was in line with the 
terms in the policy.  As she was contesting  the valuation, she felt that it was not 
acceptable for them to have done this. This was particularly inconvenient for Miss T 
as her family are a one car family.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and concluded that UKI did not make a
fair offer. They stated  that the valuation should  take in to consideration more than one
reputable guide and explained that £2819  would have been  a more  reasonable calculation
based on the four reputable guides available to us. Following this, an additional payment for
the shortfall (£119)  should be raised, plus simple  interest at 8%, from the date of the original
settlement.
UKI did not agree with this outcome as we also took into consideration the franchised dealer
figures.
Ref: DRN57249832With regards to the second  complaint  point,  our investigator concluded that UKI followed  the
terms of their policy and although sympathetic to Miss Ts situation, concluded that UKI did
not act in an unreasonable manner.
Miss T was unhappy with both conclusions and has maintained  the valuation  figure  is too 
low. This complaint  was therefore  passed  to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
An insurer  is free to decide  what it will and wont cover under an insurance policy and the
terms and conditions will define  what those things are. They form the basis  of the contract
between the policyholder and the insurer. Ill look at them  to consider whether the insurer
has acted in line with whats defined whilst  keeping  in mind what I consider to be fair and
reasonable.
The policy defines  Market  Value  as the cost of replacing your car with another  of the same
make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. As the
policy doesnt set out how the market value is to be determined under such  circumstances, I
need to consider if the valuation figure UKI has provided is fair and reasonable.
In their final response letter to Miss T, UKI provided  a breakdown  of how they arrived  at the
valuation figure  of £2,700. As we would expect, they have taken into consideration the
mileage and general condition of the vehicle. Having reviewed the guides available  to us, I
do not think UKI need to take any further  action.
The guides  we used regarding the value of Miss Ts car at the time,  show four valuation
figures ranging from £2700 to £2911.  UKI have questioned why we have included  a
franchised dealer  figure in our consideration. If our guides give a franchised and non-
franchised dealer  valuation figure,  we use the franchised dealer figure. As these guides are 
based on extensive nationwide research,  we believe this is the fairest approach.
In this instance, the range itself is not a big one and my consideration here, is to whether
UKIs offer is in line with the range  of valuations contained in the guides  we have, and it is.
Whilst it is at the lower end of the range, it is still within, what  is a small range.
I understand that Miss T is of the view that her car should be valued more highly, due to the
searches she had conducted  online.  As such I appreciate, this decision will be disappointing.
But the figures she saw do not reflect the value of her type of vehicle, but the retail  figure.
Retail figures differ from valuations for a number of reasons, profit and room for negotiation
being two of them. They represent  the figure  the car is being sold for, not what is actually
paid when the sale takes place. As part of this process my role is to put Miss T back in the
position she would have been in; and that means  the value of her car is to be given to her,
not the retail cost of a similar  car.
My second  consideration is with regards to the hire car being returned seven days after the
settlement was received. Having reviewed the policy terms, I can see this is clearly stated.
Whilst Miss T may have  disagreed with the valuation, the claim had been  settled and UKI 
were not unreasonable in requesting the hire car be returned.
Ref: DRN57249833In deciding this I have also taken into account the fact that UKIs valuation  was within the
range of the four valuations we have. Therefore, it wouldnt  be fair for me to say they should
have extended  the length of time the hire car was with Miss T.
Miss T has described  her household as a one car family and has explained that having  to
return the car when  she did was an inconvenience.  I therefore understand that this will also
be a disappointing  outcome for Miss T. But I do need to be fair to both parties  in my 
consideration, and I do not think UKI acted  in an unreasonable or unfair manner in this
instance.
The response  to my provisional  decision
UKI had no further  comments.
Miss T doesnt agree with my provisional  decision.  She has explained that she doesnt feel I 
have taken into consideration  the excellent  condition  of the car and the value  added  by 
having a full-service  history.  
Miss T has asked that consideration  be given as to where she could buy a similar car for the 
valuation price. She is of the view that it doesnt  exist. Miss T has also explained  that there 
are thousands of cars similar to hers on the market.  But priced higher than the valuation 
given. She feels that if my decision remains the same,  she will be financially out of pocket 
and the system would have failed her.
So, it is clear Miss T thinks the valuation of her car should be increased to match the retail 
value of similar cars she has seen  available for sale.  
No comment has been made by either  party, regarding my provisional decision  that UKI 
didnt act unfairly; when  they requested the hire car be returned within seven days  of the 
settlement money  being given to Miss T.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Miss Ts response  to it. 
Miss T has attempted to explain why the valuation is too low, in that it doesnt match the 
retail value of cars similar to hers. And I appreciate  she has found it difficult to find a similar 
car for the valuation price. UKI have already taken into consideration additional factors  such  
as the condition of Miss Ts car, so this doesnt  need to be considered  any further. 
The industry guides we use, show valuation figures  ranging from £2700 to £2911. The 
valuation provided  by UKI, is in line with the range  of valuations contained in the guides we 
use. And as explained in my provisional decision,  putting Miss T back in the position she 
would have been in, means the value of her car is to be given  to her  not the retail cost of a 
similar car. 
Therefore, I still dont think it would be fair to ask UKI to increase the valuation  they have 
given.  
Ref: DRN57249834With regards to the hire car needing  to be returned  within seven days of the settlement  
money being given to Miss T, I have  not been  provided with any further information to 
consider and so my decision remains unchanged.   
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5724983