K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains about her mortgage,  which is administered by Link Mortgage Services  
Limited. She says that Link have threatened her with repossession  and shes  unhappy  with 
how they have  been chasing  her for the debt.
background
Ms F took out a secured loan in 2008. The loan was later sold on to another  lender. Link 
administers the loan on behalf  of the lender. Link have said that Ms F is in significant 
arrears. They said shes only managed to contribute payments of no more than £10.00 since 
her loan was transferred  to them in 2015.
Ms F is unhappy that Link are threatening her with repossession. She feels  that this should 
only be done as a last resort, and that this isnt the case  here. She says that Link have been  
harassing her and chasing  her for the debt, which is having an effect on her health and 
wellbeing. Ms F says she has been  making  some  payments to the loan and that she can 
continue to do so  but Link wont accept  the amount  that shes  offering and are now 
threatening to take her to court.
Ms F is also very unhappy with a telephone call that she had with someone at Link. She 
says she disclosed some of her medical  information to the adviser and she felt that he 
placed pressure  on her about  her ability to repay the loan. She said they wanted bank 
statements from her which she couldnt  afford  to obtain.  
Link doesnt think theyve  done anything wrong.  Theyve said they have  demonstrated a 
considerable amount of forbearance in managing Ms Fs account. They said they listened to 
the telephone call that Ms F had with the adviser and they didnt agree that the adviser put 
undue pressure on Ms F. They thought the call was dealt with in a professional  way.
Link have said that they have attempted  to maintain regular contact with Ms F since they 
began administering  the loan in 2015. They said the debt is accumulating  rapidly each 
month because Ms F is not able to pay enough to bring the debt down. Theyve  also said  
that they have  held out with litigation as long as they could, which  has included putting a 
hold on the account for 12 months  during which  time they didnt charge interest  or apply  
any arrears management  fees (AMFs), and suspended all contact with Ms F to give her 
some space.
Link said they conducted some income  and expenditure assessments  with Ms F to try and 
understand her situation but these  have shown that the loan that she has, is currently 
unaffordable. They  have  also said they need some  more  information from Ms F to be able to 
do a new income and expenditure to see what arrangement if any, they could come  to.
As Ms F was unhappy, she brought her complaint  to our service and it was looked at by one 
of our investigators, who didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think that 
Link had been  unreasonable in their dealings with Ms F and he thought  that they were 
entitled to ask for more information to conduct  another income and expenditure assessment.  
Ms F didnt agree with what the investigator  had said and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman  so it has come  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN50548092my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2019.  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account everything 
Ms F and Link have said. And while I understand that Ms F has strong feelings about  
this complaint, I am not intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The loan was originally  taken out for £15,000  and has since  gone into significant 
arrears, which  Ms F has been unable to clear. She has been dealing with Link to try 
and come to a solution to repay  her outstanding  balance - but shes  unhappy with 
how they have  been treating her.
I understand that Ms F has some  medical conditions which make things difficult  for 
her and I appreciate  that shes had quite a difficult time. I would expect Link to deal 
with her sympathetically and show that they have  considered her individual 
circumstances when  dealing with her. 
Link have told us they have a small team  of case handlers who are aware  of Ms Fs 
circumstances. Theyve  also said her account is flagged  to show  she has medical  
conditions and may not want  to repeat certain information to them  again. They said 
she would  only ever speak to one of these  case handlers who know about  her 
situation. This sounds sensible as it would have made it easier  on Ms F, as she 
wouldnt have found herself dealing with someone that wasnt aware of her personal 
situation.
Having reviewed all of the information  that I have, I dont think that Link have  treated 
Ms F unfairly or unreasonably.  I can see that they have tried to contact her on some  
occasions to discuss the arrears  and try and come  to a solution with her. It doesnt 
look like they have  done anything to make  Ms F feel uncomfortable, although  I do 
appreciate that Ms F may have felt like that. Im also satisfied  with the calls that Ive 
listened to in how they have treated her. So I dont  think they could have done any 
more to help Ms F.
As far as Link were concerned, theyd made  a number of attempts to contact Ms F to 
try and come to a solution for her to pay back the arrears. And a number of income 
and expenditure  assessments were carried out by Link in order  to understand the 
situation that Ms F was in. From  what I can see, Ms F didnt  have enough disposable 
income to be able to pay enough each month,  to this loan, in order  to clear the 
arrears. 
Ref: DRN50548093It is also my understanding that Ms Fs mortgage  with another lender is also now in 
arrears. I can appreciate that her main priority may have been to pay more  money  off 
that mortgage. But ultimately, she is finding it difficult  to keep up to date with the loan 
that she has with Link.
Ive seen the system  notes that Link has provided. I can see that during a 
conversation with Ms F, it was acknowledged  that Ms F may not be able to sell her 
property to repay debts  because she said it was in a poor state of repair.  Link looked 
at similar  properties in the area and said that the mortgage may also be in negative 
equity. So where  we might suggest that Ms F could sell property to help pay off some  
of her loans,  this isnt necessarily looking like a viable option. If Ms F feels this has 
changed, she should let Link know.
Having looked  at the statements that Link have provided, I can see that Ms F has 
only been able to pay small amounts towards  the loan. It appears that she hasnt 
been able to come to an agreement with Link that would mean  that the arrears would 
be paid off fully, without putting  more  pressure on her.
Ive listened to the telephone call that Ms F had with one of the advisers  at Link 
where she said she felt pressured. I cant agree that the adviser put undue  pressure 
on her and while I appreciate that Ms F was upset after this call, I cant  say that the 
adviser dealt with the call unprofessionally. The purpose of the call was to try and 
understand what Ms F could afford each month  towards the loan and the adviser was 
trying to determine how they could move forward. He also asked Ms F for recent  
bank statements to try and understand if things had changed.  But Ms F said she 
couldnt obtain these from her bank without a charge.
Im satisfied that Link considered proposals that Ms F put forward but they also 
wanted to check  bank statements to show more recently, what Ms Fs monthly 
expenditure was. They  had already carried out previous income and expenditure 
assessments and they knew that Ms F didnt have enough disposable income, to pay 
enough off the arrears.  I dont think that its unfair for Link to ask for this information, 
so that they can agree  a realistic repayment  plan under  their duty to act as a 
responsible lender. And I can see that they also contacted Ms Fs bank for the 
statements and agreed with them that she wouldnt be charged. 
Link have confirmed that that Ms F did send in further statements in September 2017 
and a further income and expenditure assessment was carried out. But after they 
completed their review, they agreed that there  was a deficit against her income and 
that the loan was no longer affordable.
Im also aware that Link agreed to park  the loan for 12 months  in 2016 to give Ms F 
some space. They didnt  add any interest to the loan and agreed not to charge any 
AMFs. Due to a system  error, these fees were added, but have since  been refunded 
for Ms F  in line with what Link said theyd do.
I think it was fair and reasonable for Link to take these  actions,  as it shows  theyve 
tried to help Ms F when she was going  through a difficult time. But, unfortunately, it 
does look like this loan is now unaffordable  to Ms F. And no other viable  options  
appear to be available to her. So I dont think that Link have done anything wrong in 
starting litigation to recover this debt. I also dont think they have  pursued  her unfairly 
for the debt.
Ref: DRN50548094Overall, I sympathise with the financial situation that Ms F has found herself in. But 
from what Ive seen  so far I dont  think theres  anything more I could reasonably 
expect Link to have  done to help her. Ms F may find it useful to seek  advice from a 
debt charity to help her manage her debt commitments.  We can share the details of 
such organisations if Ms F feels this may be of help to her.
developments
Link and Ms F both responded to my provisional  decision. Link accepted what  I had said and 
didnt have any further comments to make.
Ms F didnt agree but she had some new information for me to consider. She said that she 
has managed to get her small NHS pension a year early on health grounds.  So she was 
going to be able to make an offer to Link for an amount  around  £2,000  - £3,000 because it 
was going to be backdated.  But she has since said that she isnt allowed to take out a larger  
lump sum due to regulation which she is appealing. She said that her benefits and her 
Personal Independence Payment (PIP) have been  removed.
Link have said that if Ms F puts forward a suitable proposal which would clear the balance 
within an acceptable timeframe,  they would be happy to consider it. But they couldnt say the 
exact amounts  of what they would be prepared to consider so they encouraged Ms F or the 
Citizens Advice Bureau (as Ms F has a contact there to help her) to contact them  to discuss.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms F is in a difficult situation  but she hasnt really been able to give us 
information that changes anything. Its still not clear  if Ms F is able to make an offer to Link 
because she said her benefits and PIP have  been  removed. But even if she was able to 
make an offer of around £2000 - £3000,  thered still be significant  arrears and no sustainable 
way forward for her to be able to clear the amount remaining.
I understand that Ms F has been dealing with someone from the Citizens Advice Bureau who 
has been contacting Link on her behalf. It may be useful  for Ms F to continue with this 
support moving  forwards. But we can still provide  information on any debt charities to help 
Ms F manage  her debt commitments  if she feels this may still help her.
I dont underestimate  how difficult a time this has been for Ms F and her strength of feeling. 
However, all things considered, I dont  see any reason to depart from my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN50548095my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5054809