K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) shouldnt  have agreed 
to lend to her.
background
Miss R out seven loans  with QuickQuid between August 2015 and September 2017. A 
summary of her lending  is below:
No. Date of Loan Loan amount  Instalments Highest instalment Date Repaid
1 04/08/2015 £100 3 £122 13/11/2015
2 28/12/2015 £100 3 £122 01/04/2016
3 04/04/2016 £100 3 £122 24/06/2016
4 02/09/2016 £50 2 £61 14/10/2016
5 07/12/2016 £150 3 £184 03/03/2017
6 14/03/2017 £100 3 £122 23/06/2017
7 11/09/2017 £300 3 £367 outstanding
Miss R wants  QuickQuid  to refund the amounts that she has paid including  interest.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Rs complaint  should  be upheld.  He asked 
QuickQuid to remove any negative information about loans one and two from Miss Rs credit 
file. He recommended that QuickQuid remove loans three to seven entirely from Miss Rs 
credit file. 
The adjudicator also recommended  that QuickQuid refund the interest  and charges that  
Miss R had paid on all of the loans and pay interest  on the refund.
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
QuickQuid should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN57559992the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Miss R could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Source Book defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
QuickQuid recorded  Miss Rs net monthly  income to be £659 for all the loans apart from loan 
seven when it had increased to £1,067. Miss R declared a monthly expenditure of £577  for 
loans one to six and £325 for loan seven.
Based on the information QuickQuid held about  Miss R when she applied for loan one, she 
was left with a monthly disposable income  of £82 each month. Although  the first two 
instalments on loan one might  have been affordable on a strict pounds  and pence  
calculation, I dont  think this means that they were  sustainable. The second instalment of 
£22.40 left Miss R with less than a £60 margin for any unexpected expenses. I dont think  
this was enough to say that she could repay the loan without undue difficulty. 
Miss R didnt have enough  disposable income to afford the final repayment of £122.40. And 
given what Ive said about the earlier instalments, I dont think it was realistic for QuickQuid 
to expect Miss R to afford  the final repayment  by saving money in the previous two months. I 
think the fact that Miss R wasnt  able to repay loan one on time and had to enter in to a 
repayment plan,  demonstrated that loan one and any subsequent loans were unsustainable.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Miss R to see if 
there was a point  at which QuickQuid shouldve reasonably seen Miss R was persistently 
reliant on short term loans. So that further  lending was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Rs case, I think  this point was reached by loan 
three. I say this because:
Ref: DRN57559993loan three was the third loan that Miss R had taken out in about  eight  months and 
shed already had difficulties  repaying an earlier loan. 
the amount  Miss R was borrowing remained broadly the same and subsequently 
increased. In my view,  Miss Rs pattern of borrowing was in itself a demonstration  of 
her inability  to settle her loans  over the life of her credit  agreement. 
although there were  some gaps in lending, I dont think  that they were significant 
enough to mean that QuickQuid could safely assume that Miss Rs financial situation 
had improved.
Although Miss R reported  a higher income and lower expenditure at the time of loan 
seven, I consider the fact that she needed to roll over loan six showed that Miss R 
was struggling with her finances.  And the final instalment that QuickQuid expected 
Miss R to repay  represented  a fairly significant  proportion of her declared monthly 
income, indicating  that she might  struggle  to sustainably  afford  loan seven.
I think that Miss R lost out because QuickQuid provided loans three  to seven because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed QuickQuid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
Id like to make it clear that I have considered  all the points  that QuickQuid raised in 
response to the adjudicators recommendation and subsequent email. This includes  the 
document QuickQuid  gave about  the changes that it made to its lending  processes in 2015.  
QuickQuid will be aware of what this service has previously said about  that document  so I 
wont comment on it here  although  I did take it into account.
I appreciate that QuickQuid thinks the mere number  of loans isnt enough for me to say that 
the lending was unsustainable. However,  QuickQuid will know (or should know) from 
pervious decisions  that there are cases where this service considers the overall  lending  
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.
Overall, I consider it fair to uphold Miss Rs complaint about  loans  one to seven.
Its not clear whether  Miss R still owes money on the final loan. If she does, then as Miss R 
has had the benefit of the money lent I consider  its fair to allow QuickQuid to apply the 
refund against  the outstanding principal balance. 
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss R paid on loans one to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
Ref: DRN57559994write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan seven;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  any outstanding principal balance  on loan seven 
before paying  the remaining balance (if there is any) to Miss R;
remove any negative information  about loans one and two from Miss Rs credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan three means that any information about 
loans three to seven  is negative. So all entries about loans three to seven should be 
removed from Miss Rs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss R a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
If after carrying out the above steps  there is still an outstanding balance, I remind  QuickQuid 
of its obligation  to treat Miss R sympathetically and reasonably in any repayment  
discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct  CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5755999