K821x#15complaint
Mr R1 has complained  that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited unfairly rejected a 
claim and cancelled his car insurance policy. Mr Rs father Mr R2 is representing him in his 
complaint. 
background
Mr R1 bought  a car insurance policy with the insurer, Southern  Rock  in January 2018. He 
asked for cover for social and domestic  use  but not for commuting. 
In April 2018 Mr R1 was involved in an incident  with another car and he reported it to 
Southern Rock. He explained that he was driving  back to work  when  the incident happened. 
Southern Rock told Mr R1 that hed breached  his contract as he wasnt  insured to use his 
car for commuting. So it said it would  deal with the other drivers claim as it was obliged to 
under the terms  of the Road Traffic Act. But it would look to recover the costs of their claim 
from Mr R1. Mr R1 had paid a deposit  and was repaying the rest of the yearly premium  in 
monthly instalments.  Southern Rock said Mr R1 owed the balance of the yearly  premium as 
it had met the claim and looked to recover its costs  from Mr R1. 
Mr R2 asked us to look at his sons complaint. The third party claim costs came  to over 
£8,500. He said it was a genuine error. He believed Southern Rock should apply a 
proportionate approach  and charge his son the difference in cost for cover including 
commuting  and then deal with the claim. Mr R2 didnt think Southern  Rock  should have 
cancelled Mr R1s policy  and he said it took Southern Rock  three  months to make this 
decision while continuing  to collect  the premium. 
In the meantime Southern  Rock passed  the premium balance  it said Mr R1 owed for the 
remainder of the year to a debt collection agency. 
Our investigator thought Southern Rock had handled the claim and cancellation of the policy 
reasonably. Mr R2 believed it was fairer to say that his son had misrepresented the 
information and that it wasnt deliberate. But our investigator said that this was a change  of 
use which Southern  Rock had clearly explained Mr R1 would need to tell it about during the 
contract  but he didnt.  So this wasnt a case of misrepresentation and therefore the Act 
which provides guidance  and remedies  when misrepresentation happens didnt apply in this 
case. 
However, the investigator thought Southern Rock shouldve stopped  charging  Mr R1 the 
premium when it became  apparent his policy was being cancelled,  or from when they 
informed him of this. From the final response letter this appeared to have been  on 25 April 
2018.
Given Southern  Rock intended  to recover a substantial amount of money from Mr R1, she 
thought it reasonable (and usual  practice in these  situations) that it deduct any refund of 
premium due to him from the outstanding amount due to them, including any amounts  now 
paid to the debt collection  agency appointed  by Southern Rock  to recover  the premium.  The 
investigator also recommended  Southern Rock waive any remaining premium  due.
Once the amounts had been  reconciled, Southern Rock should let Mr R1 know  the 
outstanding amount due for recovery and arrange contact to organise a repayment plan.
Ref: DRN57846392Additionally, given the premium shouldnt have continued to be charged following the 
cancellation, Southern Rock should remove any trace on his credit file of the arrangement 
with the debt collection agency.
So, she summarised that Southern Rock should:
calculate (and offset against the settlement  figure) the premiums paid since  25 
April 2018, and; 
 waive any premium considered as outstanding, and;
correct any record placed  on Mr R1s credit file in relation to the premium  being 
unpaid.
Southern Rock accepted  the investigators  view. 
Mr R2 didnt agree. He says his son has gone  to the same  website and ticked  the box to 
include commuting. The difference in premium  is about £30. Mr R2 believes the outcome is 
disproportionately harsh for the error his son made. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators recommendations. I understand Mr R2 will be disappointed.  But Ill explain why 
I think Southern  Rocks  decision  to reject the claim  and cancel the policy was reasonable. 
Misrepresentation usually occurs  at application  stage or renewal.  If a customer  
misrepresents the facts  we look at what the Consumer  (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) says. The spirit of the Act is  where  the misrepresentation wasnt  deliberate  
or reckless but was material  the insurers remedy should be proportionate. 
However, I dont think CIDRA  applies in this case. When Mr R1 bought the policy  in January 
2018, he didnt  misrepresent the information then.  But after he bought the policy, he 
changed the use for his car which was clearly excluded as set out on his certificate  of 
insurance. 
The investigator clearly  detailed the exclusions,  terms  and conditions  highlighted in the 
policy documents Southern Rock sent to Mr R1 when he bought the policy  in her view. So I 
dont intend to repeat them in the same detail here. But Im satisfied  that Southern Rock 
drew Mr R1s attention  to the type of use he was covered  for on his certificate. It says that 
cover for travelling to and from a place of work  was excluded. And Mr R1 was warned of the 
importance of telling  Southern Rock if the use changed - and the consequences if he didnt. 
It was a significant change to the risk Southern Rock insured Mr R1 for in January 2018  
and it was for Mr R1 to tell it about  the change before he used his car for commuting. 
So I think that Southern Rocks decision not to meet  the claim was reasonable. And as 
Mr R1 breached the terms and conditions of his policy, it was also entitled to cancel his 
policy.
Ref: DRN57846393But I think a fairer outcome is for Southern Rock to have cancelled  Mr R1s policy sooner 
than it did. Southern Rock has agreed to backdate the cancellation date to 25 April 2018. 
This is the date it discovered that Mr R1 was in breach of his contract. I think  this is fair.
This means  that Southern  Rock owes Mr R1 a partial refund  but as Mr R1 owes  Southern 
Rock a significant sum for the costs of the third party claim,  I think its reasonable for 
Southern Rock to deduct  the refund due from the claim costs Mr R1 owes it. And I think its 
fair and reasonable for Southern Rock  to agree a repayment plan with Mr R1 due to the 
amount involved.  
I understand the sum Southern Rock passed to a debt recovery  agent  included the 
remainder of the yearly  premium. I dont think Southern Rock should charge Mr R1 for the 
remainder of the year. So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things  right.
I understand Mr R2 will be very disappointed with my decision. But our role is to consider 
whether the insurer  has acted reasonably  and in line with the policy. In this case, I think  it 
has. I think Southern  Rock clearly set out what changes  Mr R1 needed  to tell it about and 
the consequences if he didnt. So I cant say that Southern Rocks decision not to meet  the 
claim  and to subsequently cancel Mr R1s policy  was unreasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
calculate (and offset against the settlement  figure) the premiums paid since  the 
cancellation date of 25 April 2018, 
 waive any premium due under the policy considered as outstanding, and;
correct any record placed  on Mr Rs credit  file in relation to the premium being  
unpaid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5784639