K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the way Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) has 
compensated him for the level of commission and profit share it got on the sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a loan.
background
In 2001, Mr M took out a loan for £5,000 with Nationwide. At the same  time he was sold a 
single premium PPI policy  costing £994.41.
In 2018, Nationwide wrote  to Mr M to say it would compensate  him for the high level of 
commission and profit share it received  on his PPI policy.  It offered  Mr M £652.70 (net of tax) 
in compensation.  But Nationwide said that, because Mr M still owed more  than this on his 
loan, it would deduct this compensation from the amount he still owed rather  than paying it 
directly to him.
Mr M wasnt happy with how the compensation Nationwide  had offered him had been  
calculated, or that all of this compensation had been  offset against the amount Nationwide  
said he still owed on his loan.
Our adjudicator thought that the amount of compensation offered by Nationwide  had been 
calculated in the way this service would have expected and was fair. And he also thought it 
was fair for Nationwide to deduct this compensation amount from the higher amount he still 
owed on the loan which this policy protected. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint isnt about whether the Mr M was mis-sold his PPI policy.  So Im not looking 
into the circumstances of the sale itself.  Im looking at whether the amount Nationwide has 
offered to compensate him for the high level of commission and profit share it earned on his 
policy is fair. Im also looking at whether it was fair for Nationwide  to use this compensation 
amount to reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. The 
FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  on the sale of a 
PPI policy  (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  and didn't tell the consumer, then it created 
an unfair relationship  between the two parties. 
To put this right, the FCA said businesses have to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share earned that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As in this case  the PPI 
premium was added to Mr Ms loan and therefore attracted interest, Nationwide  also has to 
refund the interest he paid on this excess commission and profit  share. It also has to 
compensate him for the time hes been  out of pocket  because of these extra amounts he 
paid by adding  8% simple  interest to the extra he paid.
Ref: DRN57637682Ive looked at the way Nationwide has calculated the compensation figure of £652.70 (net of 
tax) that its offered to Mr M. And having  done so, Im satisfied that its been done in the way 
that I would expect and that its fair.
Ive next looked at whether it was fair for Nationwide to set-off this compensation offer 
against the amount it says he still owed on his loan.
There is in law what is called the equitable right of set-off which  allows people (and 
businesses) to set-off  closely  connected debts. This means that one person  (A) can 
deduct from a debt they owe another  person  (B),  money which that person (B) owes  to 
them.
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection  between  
the PPI compensation offered to Mr M and his outstanding debt to Nationwide. I must also 
be satisfied that it would be fair for Nationwide to use set-off in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that Nationwide has an equitable right to set-off  the PPI compensation 
in the way it has.
The PPI sold to Mr M was directly connected  to his loan account.  Using  the right of set-off  I 
have outlined above, Im satisfied  the PPI compensation  and the outstanding loan debt are 
closely connected. They are both related to the same  account Mr M had with Nationwide. 
And I havent seen  any compelling evidence to show that Mr M had more pressing needs  for 
the compensation than reducing the arrears on this debt. So I think  its fair for Nationwide to 
use the compensation its offered to reduce his outstanding loan debt.
Finally, Ive looked at whether the amount still outstanding on Mr Ms loan account at the 
time the compensation offer was made was higher than the amount offered and so could be 
fully set-off  against  it. 
Nationwide says that before the offer of compensation was deducted  from Mr Ms loan 
account, there was an amount outstanding on it of £665.77. It has provided me with a full 
transaction history  for this account.  And having  reviewed this, Im satisfied  that this was the 
amount Mr M still owed on his loan at that time. So this means that Nationwides 
compensation offer of £652.70  (net of tax) could be fully offset  against  this balance, leaving 
an amount still outstanding  of £13.07. 
I can see that Mr M made two further repayments on his loan totalling £25.34 in June 2018 
and July 2018, after the set-off had been  applied. This meant that after these payments he 
had a credit  balance outstanding on his loan account of £12.27.  And I can see that a refund 
of this amount  was sent to Mr M in August 2018  to bring  his account balance  to zero.  As a 
result, Mr M doesnt now owe Nationwide  anything in relation to this loan.
So Im satisfied from what Ive seen that it was fair for Nationwide to set-off the 
compensation it owed  Mr M fully against the amount  which  was still outstanding at that time 
on his loan account.
Ref: DRN57637683my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think that the way that Nationwide Building Society has 
compensated Mr M is fair. I dont require it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5763768