K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC only offered to refund 50% of his holiday costs under 
a Section 75 claim.
background
Mr B booked a package holiday for himself and his family with a tour operator  and paid with 
his Lloyds credit card.
Mr B was unhappy about a number of aspects  of his holiday  and the flights. He complained 
initially to the tour operator and then to Lloyds under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 seeking a refund of the entire  cost of the holiday.
The issues  about  which Mr B was unhappy included;
Water  park not fully open
Hotel staff hiding  alcohol for other  guests
Didnt get a room with garden  view as requested
Insufficient food and cutlery on the flight
Return flight to London  delayed due to being  diverted  causing  him to miss his 
connecting flight 
Lloyds looked  into Mr Bs claim and agreed  that there were some  issues  with the quality of 
the service and the facilities offered  at the hotel. It offered to refund 50% of the amount 
which Mr B had paid to the tour operator and 50% of the amount paid to the flight  operator  
as Mr B had been unable  to use the return journey part of his connecting flights. Lloyds also 
offered to refund £770.83 for extra costs incurred by Mr B and £22.70 for the exchange 
rate fees relating to those transactions. In addition, Lloyds offered to pay £300 for the poor 
handling of Mr Bs Section 75 claim.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the offer. He wants the entire cost of the holiday refunded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that Lloyds had treated Mr B fairly and 
that the offer to refund  50% of the costs was reasonable. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the main  reason  for choosing the hotel was the water chutes and 
these hadnt been open at all during  the holiday,  despite the tour operator having advertised  
them as being  available. Mr B also said that the plane was diverted because of a drunken 
passenger who should  not have been  allowed to board.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B didnt have the holiday experience he was hoping  for and I understand 
that hes dissatisfied with the offer made  by Lloyds. However, that said, I dont agree that 
Lloyds should  do more than it has already done. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ref: DRN51763122Firstly, Id like to set out what my role is here.  In considering a complaint about  a financial 
services provider (in this case  Lloyds) Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a 
party (Mr B) might have  under Section 75. Nor am I determining whether Lloyds has 
breached its legal obligations  to Mr M. Rather, in deciding  whats  a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve Mr Bs complaint, Ive taken  Section  75 into account.  But this doesnt  mean  Im 
obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court  might reach if Mr B pursued a 
claim for breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says that goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and as described,  and 
that services should be performed with reasonable care and skill. If this isnt the case, then a 
breach of contract can be said to have occurred. A misrepresentation is an untrue  statement 
of fact which causes  the consumer  to go ahead with the contract.
Ive considered all of the issues complained  about  by Mr B. I wont comment  on all of them  
but will focus on a couple. In relation to the location of Mr Bs hotel room,  I appreciate  that he 
requested a garden view. I understand the view wasnt what  he expected. I havent seen any 
information to suggest that a garden view was a term of the contract between Mr B and the 
tour operator. The essence of the contract  obliges the tour operator to provide Mr B with a 
room for the duration of the holiday. Whilst I appreciate  that the room fell short  of Mr Bs 
expectations, theres nothing to suggest  that theres been a breach of contract.
In relation to the water  park, I can see that the tour operator has acknowledged  that this was 
being promoted as fully operational  when  in fact it was partially closed for building  work.  Mr 
B says that the water chutes were one of the main reasons he chose the hotel. I understand 
Mr Bs disappointment but based on the available information it appears that other parts  of 
the water  park were  open and there were also other water based  activities  and leisure 
facilities which Mr B was able to enjoy. So Im not persuaded  that it would be fair to ask 
Lloyds to refund Mr B for 100% of the costs of the holiday.
In relation to the connecting  flights, I understand how frustrating  it can be to experience  flight 
delays. The delay  affected Mr Bs ability to use the return part of his connecting flight. 
Because of this, I think the offer to refund 50% of the flight is reasonable.
Im also satisfied that the banks offer to reimburse Mr B for the additional costs he incurred  
as a result  of the flight delay is reasonable.
I agree  that initially, Lloyds didnt provide the service that Mr B was entitled to expect. It 
shouldve been  clearer about the information  Mr B needed to provide  and it could have dealt 
with the claim more quickly. I think Lloyds are right to acknowledge that there were some 
customer service  failings  and I think the offer of £300 is fair.
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to uphold the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Ref: DRN51763123Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5176312