K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  didnt tell him about a potential default  when  
a repayment plan was set up on his account. He is also unhappy about the delays  hes 
experienced while on the phone to the bank.
background
Mr S has two bank accounts with Lloyds both of which had authorised  overdraft limits. 
In February 2018  Mr S agreed a repayment plan on one of his accounts after it exceeded the 
overdraft limit on 29 January 2018. This was a three month  repayment  plan of £40 per 
month which was to be reviewed after the three  months had passed. A similar repayment 
plan was set up on his second  account  to pay £10 per month.  Mr S says he wasnt made  
aware at any time in the call that the accounts could  be defaulted at the end of the three 
month plan.
When he called Lloyds  at the end of the three months he was told the accounts  would be 
passed to recoveries where they would be defaulted and recovery action  taken. He was very 
upset that he hadnt  been given any warning the balances needed to be cleared by the end 
of the three month period. Mr S felt it would have been fair for Lloyds to have made him 
aware of this much sooner so he could have taken action to clear the accounts. He made a 
complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds said it wasnt an automatic process to discuss the accounts could be defaulted and 
so it wouldnt have  been discussed when  the three month payment plans were set up. And it 
said, to have discussed this, might  have put Mr S under further pressure to pay more than 
he could afford. Lloyds  said it didnt do anything wrong.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr S referred  his complaint to us. Our investigator looked  
into it and said she didnt  think Lloyds  had acted unfairly. She said Lloyds werent 
considering a default at the start of the repayment plan and if it was going to potentially 
consider a default, it wouldnt have to give more than 28 days notice so it didnt do anything  
wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me. He said he feels  hes been  treated unfairly  by 
Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can see Mr S has been in touch with Lloyds at varying times during the history  of the 
accounts as he has periodically been in financial difficulty. In February  2018,  repayment 
Ref: DRN53064362plans were set up on the accounts. I can also see he hadnt always  been  able to meet the 
repayments. 
Lloyds sent Mr S a letter on 22 May 2018 asking  him to pay the balance on his account. 
Mr S was unhappy at this point and on 25 May, he called Lloyds because he says he was 
never told that he could  have a default registered against him if hed failed to keep to the 
plan. 
While I cant see that he was told on the phone (and Lloyds has said it wasnt obliged  to 
inform Mr S at this point),  I can see that Lloyds  did send Mr S a letter  in March 2018. The 
letter included a payment  arrangements  help sheet  which states:
What happens if I dont keep to my arrangement?
We may be able to agree  a new arrangement with you. However, if youre  unable to maintain 
payments on an ongoing  basis, you may be passed to our Recoveries team. If this happens 
then youll no longer be able to use this account and well register a default against you on 
your credit file.
I think the above information is clear  enough and does in fact inform  Mr S what  would 
happen if he didnt  maintain the payments on the plan. He accepts  that he did receive the 
letter in March 2018 and Im therefore  satisfied that Lloyds did inform him of the 
consequences of not meeting the payments.
Essentially, Lloyds has a duty to treat customers who are in financial hardship  in a positive 
and sympathetic manner.  I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong when the repayment 
plans were set up and it took Mr Ss circumstances into account. It followed the correct 
collections process in requesting  the debt to be paid and ensured it arranged  a plan that met 
his financial circumstances at the time. I cant see that Lloyds actions were unfair or that it 
deviated away from its obligations.  Ultimately, the accounts never entered recoveries and 
didnt default.  And while  I acknowledge  that when Mr S was told he could go into default and 
was very upset in hearing this, Im not persuaded that Lloyds did act unfairly in not 
explaining this to him on the phone in February  2018. The purpose  of that call was to agree  
a repayment plan so that he could get back on track in maintaining his accounts.  But 
regardless of that, the letter Mr S received  did inform what  would happen  if he didnt keep to 
the arrangement.
Mr S has said he experienced  long delays on the phone calls he made to Lloyds.  But I dont 
think its unusual to have  a longer call when  Mr S was providing a lot of information to Lloyds 
about his financial  circumstances.  This was required in order to assess his situation  and to 
come to an agreement on the repayment plan. 
Overall, I dont  think Lloyds has acted inappropriately in the circumstances of this case and 
so follows that it doesnt  need to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint against  Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53064363
Ref: DRN5306436