K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy Markerstudy  Insurance Company  Limited has kept his claim on his car 
insurance open following an accident.  He thinks its delay in seeking  recovery of its outlay 
from a third party insurer means his claim may be recorded as a fault claim and he doesnt 
think this is right.
background
On 24 May 2018 Mr W was involved in an accident that wasnt  his fault.  He notified his 
insurer, Markerstudy, of the accident  shortly afterwards but didnt  start a claim. 
On 26 June 2018 Mr W started a claim because  hed been notified the third partys  insurer 
had gone into liquidation. The Financial Services Compensation  Scheme website says the 
insurer, an overseas company, was declared bankrupt  on 8 May 2018.
Markerstudy settled Mr Ws claim on 10 July 2018.  At the beginning of August 2018 it gave 
the third partys insurer details of its outlay in settling Mr Ws claim, asking for 
reimbursement. In October 2018  it sent the insurer a letter before  action  for the outstanding  
debt.
Mr W says Markerstudys  delay in chasing payment for its outlay means it will be harder for it 
to recover that outlay  because  the third partys  insurer is in liquidation.  He understands his 
claim will be recorded as a fault claim if Markerstudy  doesnt recover  its outlay. He says he 
wouldnt have bought a new car if hed known this, because his insurance premiums will be 
higher with a fault claim recorded against him.
Markerstudy agrees  there was a lack of communication  with Mr W during the claim and has 
paid him £100  as compensation.  Mr W doesnt think this is enough and so brought his 
complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ws complaint  didnt uphold  it. She didnt think  any delays 
by Markerstudy had made it harder for it to recover its outlay  than it shouldve  been, because 
the third partys insurer had gone into liquidation before  Mr W claimed  on his policy. She 
thought Markerstudys  offer of £100  for its poor communication was fair and reasonable. And 
she didnt think shed  seen enough  evidence to say Mr W wouldnt have bought  the car he 
did if hed known the claim was still open.
In June 2019 Markerstudy told us it had been advised  by a third party  company that 
Markerstudys outlay for Mr Ws claim would be reimbursed. But this company couldnt  say 
when this would happen because it was awaiting  funding from an overseas guarantee 
scheme.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its fair and reasonable of Markerstudy  to keep Mr Ws claim open until it recovers its 
outlay from the third partys insurer (or from someone acting in place of the insurer).  I say 
Ref: DRN57007752this because I dont  think it delayed unnecessarily in seeking reimbursement of its outlay 
from the insurer initially. I can see there was a three  month gap between the initial  request 
for reimbursement and its letter before action. But I dont think  this prejudiced Mr Ws 
position. Thats because  the insurer was already in liquidation at the time Mr W started  his 
claim  and, indeed,  before he was involved in the accident. So I think  recovery  was never 
going to be straightforward, no matter how quickly and diligently Markerstudy chased for 
reimbursement. 
If Markerstudy is unable to recover its outlay, I also think its fair and reasonable and in line 
with insurance market practice  for it to record the claim  as a fault claim against Mr W  even 
though (as Markerstudy accepts) he didnt cause the accident.  From  what  Ive seen, though, 
it seems Markerstudy may be able to recover its outlay. If it does, Id expect  Mr Ws claim to 
be closed as a non-fault  claim.
Mr W says Markerstudy  didnt tell him his claim was still open and, if it had, he wouldnt have 
bought a new car because the insurance premiums were high. But, once it had settled his 
claim, I wouldnt  have expected  Markerstudy  to tell Mr W it would stay open until it had 
recovered its outlay.  And even if Mr W had been aware of the position, I think  its likely hed 
have gone ahead and bought another car, because it seems (not unsurprisingly) he needed 
one. I say especially  bearing in mind  that, in a phone call to Markerstudy  in June 2018 Mr W 
said he was waiting for the settlement  cheque, didnt have a hire car and was stuffed  
without a car. 
So, for these reasons,  I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. But I do think  that, because there 
was some poor communication from Markerstudy  during the claim process, its right that it 
offered (and I understand has paid) Mr W £100  as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5700775