K820x#14complaint
Miss V has complained  that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  didnt pay a fair settlement 
when she made a claim under her car insurance  policy. 
background
Miss V made a claim to her insurer, Admiral in September 2018.  Admiral said that the cost to 
repair the damage to Miss Vs car made it uneconomical to repair.  So in September 2018, it 
settled Miss Vs claim  by paying her the market value for her car. This was £13,050.
Miss V didnt think the valuation was enough.  But Admiral  said it had relied on the main 
motor trade  guides  and used the highest valuation to settle Miss Vs claim. 
Miss V asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Miss V didnt agree. She said shes obtained  valuations from the trade  guides  and they 
provided a higher valuation than the amount  Admiral  paid for her car. 
So shed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we can look at whether Admiral  reached its decision in a 
fair and reasonable way  and in line with the policy.
Miss Vs policy with Admiral says that the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of her car at the time of loss. It defines market value as the cost of replacing your car, 
with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition  based on market prices
at the time of the loss.
Admiral looked at the motor trade  guides which provided valuations ranging from £11,530 to 
£13,050. We find the motor trade guides  are more reliable than adverts as they are based on 
national research of likely  selling  prices. Adverts tend to range widely and are generally a 
starting point to negotiate the price down.  
I know Miss V believes Admiral hasnt taken  into account all of the specifications for her car. 
But weve carried out our own checks using the same guides. We found that the market 
value Admiral paid Miss V is within the range of reasonable  taking into account the make,  
model, condition, specification and mileage.
Ive also looked  at the two consumer guide valuations Miss V had provided. One gave a 
valuation ranging  from £13,520 to £14,590.  So the range is quite wide.  The other provided a 
valuation of £13,905 based on average  mileage. As Miss Vs car had higher than average 
mileage for its age, the adjusted valuation came to £14,185. Usually  a valuation will reduce if 
the mileage is higher.  So I appreciate  that this may be because the guide gave a second  
hand value for the extras  Miss Vs car had  although the valuation doesnt specify. 
Ref: DRN50051152But overall I dont  think the valuations Miss V has provided are enough to persuade me that 
Admiral has been  unfair to Miss V. 
I think Admiral  reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. It paid the highest 
of the main motor trade guide valuations  for Miss Vs car at the time of loss. I understand 
Miss V will be disappointed with my decision. But this means I dont think  Admiral needs  to 
do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5005115