K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  that TFS Loans Limited  (TFS or the lender) should not have  
agreed a guarantor loan for her in July 2015.  
background
TFS agreed a loan of £3,000 for Mrs L on the 2 July 2015. The monthly repayment was 
£127 over a term of four years, and the total amount to be repaid came to about  £6,100  
(figures rounded). This was a guarantor loan,  in other words  it was granted on the basis  
that Mrs L had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loan if she failed to 
meet her repayments.
Mrs L says that she was struggling with her finances at the time and had to take out loans to 
meet her living costs,  so TFS shouldnt have  agreed  to lend to her. Shes  also complained  
about TFSs  customer service regarding incorrect payments being added  and then deducted 
from her loan account. Mrs L says that she has repaid the loan.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that TFS should have gone further in its 
assessment of Mrs Ls ability to meet the loan repayments. However,  they concluded that 
they didnt have enough information available to determine whether TFS would  have 
declined the loan, had it carried out proportionate  checks. So they didnt recommend that 
Mrs Ls complaint be upheld.
Mrs L disagreed with this recommendation  and asked for her complaint to come to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve.  I issued my provisional decision on 22 September  2020 
explaining why I was thinking of coming to a different view of Mrs Ls complaint and 
upholding it. I gave  both parties a month to respond and let me have any further comments 
or information they would  like me to consider. 
Mrs L agreed with my provisional  decision but I have had no response from TFS. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I understand that TFS gave Mrs L an amount of £140 to 
compensate her for its handling of her loan account.  I understand that Mrs L has accepted 
this and our adjudicator thought that it was fair compensation. So I do not plan to look into 
this part of Mrs Ls complaint. My final decision deals  solely  with the matter  of irresponsible  
lending. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. Neither party  
has provided anything  new for me to consider and so, altogether,  I see no need  to depart 
from my provisional conclusion which is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ive attached  an 
extract from my provisional decision to this document and it forms part of this final decision.  
what TFS needs to do to put things right
In order to put Mrs L back in the position she would have been in, had it not agreed  to lend 
to her, TFS should: 
-refund all interest,  fees and charges Mrs L paid for this loan;
Ref: DRN50856732-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ls credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give Mrs L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint about TFS Loans Limited and require  it to 
put things right for her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50856733EXTRACT FROM THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mrs Ls complaint  that TFS was irresponsible to agree to lend to her. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for TFS and I hope my explanation below makes it clear 
why I have  come  to this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when TFS lent to Mrs L. Its rules and 
guidance obliged  TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
TFS needed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly and it would not 
be doing so if it targeted customers with regulated  credit agreements which  are unsuitable for them,  
by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability  or any other reason. (CONC  
2.2.2G).
When agreeing credit, TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess  whether  or 
not a borrower could  afford to meet  its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of 
the agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1G stated  that
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm should take 
into account more  than assessing  the customer's  ability to repay  the credit.
2.The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should  include the firm 
taking reasonable  steps to assess  the customer's ability to meet repayments under a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant being able to meet  repayments out of normal income 
while meeting other reasonable  commitments;   without having to borrow further to meet  these 
repayments; without having to realise security  or assets (CONC  5.3.1G - 6) or in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness  (ILG 4.31).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such  an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level 
of detail  would depend  on the type of product,  the amount  of credit being considered,  the associated 
cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation,  amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the borrower.  In other words  the assessment  needs to be borrower-focussed. It is 
not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, but of the risk to the borrower of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences as a result of the 
decision to lend. So even in this case where  Mrs L had a guarantor who agreed to step in and meet 
repayments in the event that she couldnt, this doesnt absolve TFS of its obligation to assess  whether 
in the first instance  Mrs L could meet her repayments without undue difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mrs Ls case, I have considered the following  
questions:
1 ILG refers to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance produced by the previous regulator - the Office of 
Fair Trading - which this part of CONC  specifically  references.
Ref: DRN50856734-did TFS complete  reasonable and proportionate checks when  assessing Mrs Ls loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable way? 
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?  
-did TFS make a fair lending decision?
TFS says that it gathered  information from Mrs L about her income and expenditure. It recorded that 
she had an income of £1,350 comprising her wages (£450) and pensions  (£900). Her monthly living 
costs came to approximately £234 and her repayments for existing credit commitments  came to £500. 
TFS estimated that this left Mrs L with a disposable monthly income of over £600. Mrs L said she 
owned her house outright, and that her daughter  now lived with her and would  pay rent of £200.
It would seem, on the face of it, that Mrs L had enough disposable income  to meet her loan 
repayments each month. Mrs L told TFS on a call that she was working part-time on a zero hours 
contract and was in receipt of two pensions. Given the nature of her employment and considering the 
size of the loan and that Mrs L would need to meet her repayments for four years, I think TFS ought  to 
have verified  the figures she gave in order to reasonably  check  she would be able to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable  manner over the full term. TFS provided  a copy of the land registry  
details of Mrs Ls property  and a copy of the results from a check on her credit file. But I dont know if 
it verified her income or her outgoings. 
Mrs L said her loan was for debt consolidation  shed mentioned on her application  form that she had 
some short term loans  she wanted to repay and, on a call with TFS,  that she had some credit card 
debts shed also like to consolidate. As mentioned, TFS noted  on its affordability assessment that Mrs 
L was repaying £500  a month on existing debt  almost  40% of her declared income. The credit file 
report TFS provided shows  that Mrs L had over £15,000 of unsecured  debts across seven  credit 
cards and mail order accounts, and a recent home credit loan. She had exceeded her limit on one 
credit card and was running at an average of about 95% on her other credit accounts. TFS also knew 
that Mrs L had a history  of taking out short term loans and had at least two outstanding at that time. 
Furthermore, had the lender looked into Mrs Ls existing debts in more  detail, I think its likely it would 
have seen shed taken out another high cost loan just the month before,  which added a further £4,000 
to her debt. 
Mrs L hasnt  provided  her bank statements from the time and I dont know enough about her 
circumstances to say that this loan was unaffordable on a strict pounds  and pence basis. However, 
taking all the above into account, I think its unlikely that Mrs L would have been able to afford her 
repayments in a sustainable  manner. TFS knew the extent of her debt and had established on a call 
with her that she was paying the minimum on her running  account  credit each  month.  I think  it should 
have been clear to TFS that its loan of £3,000 wasnt going to help Mrs L to consolidate her lending 
and was more likely than not going to prolong her indebtedness. I understand Mrs L struggled to meet 
her repayments, incurring  returned direct debit fees almost immediately, and that shes only recently 
managed to clear  this debt. I think her difficulties were  foreseeable, and so I think  TFS treated Mrs L 
unfairly when it agree to lend to her on this occasion. 
what TFS needs to do to put things  right
In order  to put Mrs L back in the position she would  have  been in, had it not agreed to lend to her, 
TFS should: 
-refund all interest,  fees and charges Mrs L paid for this loan;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ls credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give Mrs L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN50856735my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint for the reasons set out above and require TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Ill wait a month to see if either party has anything  further  to add before considering my decision on 
this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN5085673