K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE gave  misleading information regarding the 
instruction of a firm of solicitors, causing  legal costs  to be incurred  that he is now liable to 
pay. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
Mr A made a claim on his legal expenses insurance  policy for representation to pursue  a 
dispute with his neighbour. Great Lakes sent its claim form to Mr As solicitor  on the 
assumption that they were acting for him. Mr A says this led him and his solicitor to believe  
that Great Lakes  would  be covering the legal fees. So his solicitor completed  the forms on 
the basis Great Lakes  would meet their costs of doing this. 
Great Lakes says at that stage there was no cover  under the policy for a solicitor that is not 
on its panel. And that it never said it would cover  the legal fees being incurred. So Great  
Lakes has refused to pay them. 
Our investigator thought it was wrong for Great Lakes to send the claim form to the solicitors 
directly but ultimately,  it was made  clear  that costs incurred at that stage would not be met 
by the policy.  So he didnt uphold the complaint.  
As Mr A doesnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Great Lakes was first notified  of this claim  on 13 November 2018  via an email  
from Mr As broker. The email explained that Mr A had a policy  in place with Great Lakes  
and he was in dispute with his neighbours over the boundary of his property.  The broker  
confirmed that Mr A has sent a solicitors  letter  to the neighbour stating where  his boundary  
lies.  And this letter was attached. 
Great Lakes responded to this new claim submission by sending an incident report  form to 
the solicitors directly. It says this is its internal process where a customer has already 
instructed a solicitor  to act for them. And as Mr A had clearly used the solicitor to write to his 
neighbours, it seemed that he had instructed  them  to represent him. Ive seen the covering 
letter sent to the solicitor  which says please arrange for this to be completed  and signed by 
your client . It then goes on to say please note that at this stage no indemnity  has been 
granted in respect of your costs.  
This is in line with the policy  terms. As with any insurance policy, in the first instance  its for 
the policyholder  to show they have a valid claim. Cover is only provided if the claim has a 
reasonable chance of success and legal costs may only be incurred with Great  Lakes 
consent. So Great Lakes  would need  to assess the claim and confirm that costs are 
authorised before these can be claimed.  
Ref: DRN57638872I think its clear  from this letter that the incident  report form had to be completed and signed. 
And that Great Lakes  was not, at that stage, on cover for any legal costs  being incurred by 
the solicitor. Whilst Great Lakes could have sent this to Mr A directly, I think it was 
reasonable to assume the solicitor  was acting for Mr A. It hadnt  received any 
correspondence from Mr A directly, only from the broker who had merely forwarded a copy 
of the solicitors letter. 
Mr A says he didnt have any intention of using his solicitor for this claim but the 
correspondence from Great Lakes  to his solicitor directly led him to believe that he was 
covered to use them. But this doesnt  seem consistent with the correspondence  between 
Mr A and his solicitor. 
In particular, a letter  from the solicitor to Mr A in December 2018 says further  to our 
discussion on 10 December 2018, my specific instructions are to complete the paperwork for 
Family Plus.  This has now been carried out and I should be grateful if you would  come  into 
the office to sign this. This indicates that Mr A provided instructions to his solicitor in a 
conversation on 10 December 2018 to complete the form. 
The letter goes on to say that once  we have received confirmation from [Great Lakes] that 
this is an insurance covered matter  This indicates that the solicitor  was aware that the 
claim had not been accepted under the policy terms at that stage. The solicitors  then explain 
to Mr A their intended course of action  of pursuing the claim. This indicates that it was Mr As 
intention to use them as his representative.  
These indications  are confirmed in further  correspondence from the solicitors  in which they 
say we have now received instructions from our client to complete the incident report  form. 
The letter encloses the completed  form. And Great Lakes responded requesting further 
information on the claim itself and to make the solicitors  aware  that there is only cover  for a 
solicitor not on its panel when  court proceedings are issued. 
It was at this point that the question of who would be paying the solicitors  costs  to complete 
the incident report form was raised.  Mr A thinks Great  Lakes should  be responsible for the 
costs as he feels it misled him. But I dont  agree.  
Im satisfied Great Lakes  made it clear  to the solicitors that it had not agreed any indemnity 
for their costs  at that stage. And if Mr A or his solicitor was in any doubt  of what this meant, 
they could have contacted  Great Lakes for clarification. 
The letter asked that the solicitors pass the form to Mr A to complete and sign. Its clear that 
Mr A had a conversation  with his solicitor on 10 December 2018. Theres no information to 
show me what was discussed. But I think there is enough indication  within  the solicitors 
letters that Mr A provided instructions for his solicitor to complete the form on his behalf.  
Ive been given some information from Mr As broker regarding  an email  exchange they had 
with Great  Lakes. They say they were told that Mr As solicitor had been appointed  by Great  
Lakes under the policy. Having considered the details of what  was said by both parties in the 
email exchange,  I dont agree the brokers were  told this. 
I can see the broker asked Great Lakes who is the solicitor. Great  Lakes responded but did 
not address the question.  So the broker contacted Great Lakes by phone. The person they 
spoke to said they did not know  who the solicitor was but they would find out and let them 
Ref: DRN57638873know. An email followed to say see below for name  of sols. The email  below gave the 
name of Mr As solicitor.
I dont think this correspondence from Great Lakes confirms that it had instructed  the 
solicitor under the policy. The question of who is the solicitor was correctly answered by 
Great Lakes,  who at that time understood that Mr As solicitor was acting for him. If the 
broker wanted to know whether Great  Lakes  had instructed the solicitors to act, they could 
have followed this up for clarification. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5763887