K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him a monthly  
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1996.
background
Mr P took out a mortgage with NatWest  in 1996.  He was sold a PPI policy in connection with 
this mortgage.
The PPI policy would  have provided  Mr P with a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  per 
claim if he was off work sick or lost his job.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld. Mr P didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate that this is not 
the outcome that Mr P wanted but it is of course  up to Mr P whether or not he chooses to 
accept or reject my decision.  I will now explain why Ive reached this outcome.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr P was eligible under the policy.  Based on Mr Ps age, 
employment and residence (amongst other things)  at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied Mr P 
would have been eligible  for the policy.
NatWest had to make  it clear to Mr P that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. Mr P says he was led to believe the policy  was 
compulsory and was pressured into taking the PPI out because of his circumstances at the 
time of the sale. NatWest  disagree.
Of course I cant  know for sure what took place during  the sale and given  that NatWest  and 
Mr P disagree about what happened, Ive looked to the documents from the time of the sale 
to help me decide what is more likely  to have happened.   
I note that the mortgage application  made it clear that the PPI was optional. It gave Mr P a 
choice about whether  or not to take it and it appears  Mr P chose the option not to take PPI at 
this stage. So Mr P was aware  at this stage that PPI was optional. The mortgage offer Mr P 
was sent out recommended  Mr P reconsider his decision  not to take PPI.  Mr P did 
reconsider and decided  to take PPI because  Ive seen a copy of the application form he 
completed to apply for PPI. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the wording  on the offer would have made Mr P feel like 
the mortgage wouldnt complete without him taking PPI. However, Ive concluded  that its 
more likely that the mortgage  offer would  have supported the fact that the PPI was optional  
as there  were also special  conditions  attached  to the offer but PPI didnt  form part of them. 
Ref: DRN52764632Nor is there anything else on this form to indicate  Mr P had to take PPI. Ive also seen other 
correspondence which set out that Mr Ps mortgage  wouldnt complete until such time as 
certain requirements were  met. But there is nothing that Ive seen that suggests taking PPI 
was one of these requirements.
 
So while I appreciate what Mr P has told us and the difficult circumstances  he was facing at 
the time of the sale, I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that NatWest  didnt do 
enough to make Mr P aware the PPI was optional or that they pressured him into taking PPI 
out. I think its clear from these documents that the PPI was presented as optional and that it 
was only applied to Mr Ps account because he chose  to take it out.
NatWest say they didnt  recommend PPI to Mr P. But I have seen on the documents  
reference to PPI being recommended and in the context of a mortgage  being taken out 
where NatWest would have obtained  details about Mr Ps circumstances,  I can see why    
Mr P believes that NatWest recommended PPI to him. And so I have considered Mr Ps 
complaint on the basis that NatWest did recommend PPI to him. This means  NatWest  
should have taken adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for him.
I dont know if NatWest  did take all the steps  as they should have. But I do think  the PPI was 
suitable for Mr P because:
-Although Mr P has told us he was entitled to generous sick and redundancy pay from 
his employer, the PPI would  have  paid out in addition  to this. Given  Mr Ps 
circumstances and the fact that the mortgage  was protecting a valuable asset, I think 
the protection the PPI offered would  have provided some peace of mind.  Mr P could 
have used his employee benefits  for his living expenses while the PPI would have 
taken care of the mortgage repayments. Repeated claims  would  also have been 
possible under  the policy.
-Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policies which would  have made  it difficult for him to make  a successful claim.  And I 
note Mr P did make a successful claim under the policy.
-Mr P could  have cancelled the policy  at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted  or needed it.
-I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that the cost of the PPI was such  that it 
was unaffordable to Mr P at the time of the sale.
As well as taking steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr P, NatWest also had to 
provide Mr P with clear information so that he could make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take PPI. In particular,  they should  have drawn  Mr Ps attention to the 
costs, benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mr P all of the information as they should  have.  But this in 
itself doesnt mean  that the PPI was mis-sold as I have to consider whether better 
information about the policy would  have put Mr P off taking it out. 
And I dont  think better information would have put Mr P off taking PPI. I say this for the 
same reasons I think the policy  was suitable for him.
Ref: DRN52764633So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think NatWest mis-sold Mr P this PPI 
policy.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr P paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest  treated 
him unfairly.  
NatWest have told us that the commission for Mr Ps PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest have been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like theyre  right  Mr Ps commission  was less than half the cost of 
the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think they needed  to tell him about  the commission   so I 
dont think NatWest treated him unfairly.  This means  they dont need  to pay Mr P back  any 
of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5276463