K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold them a        
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr and Mrs R in May 
2006 alongside a mortgage.  The MPPI  policy protected their mortgage repayments in the 
event Mr R had an accident or was sick. 
Mr and Mrs R amended  the policy in 2011.  The cover  was still in Mr Rs name only but also 
included unemployment  cover.
Mr and Mrs R say through their representatives, that Mr R wouldnt have been  able to claim 
benefit for his pre existing medical condition  and if had known this at the time of sale then he 
wouldnt have added  it to the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs R say they were mis-sold the MPPI 
policy. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Rs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the sale of the policy  for the 
following reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs R were  given  a choice to have the MPPI 
policy when they met with a representative from Natwest. I have  been  able to see sales  
documentation from the time of sale as well as read Mr and Mrs Rs recollections.
I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr and Mrs R and Natwest during  the 
meeting in one of its branches in 2006.  Its completely understandable that                    
Mr and Mrs Rs recollections are not detailed as the sale took place a number of years 
ago. And because of this and the sales documentation that I have been able to see, 
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely  to say Natwest  didnt explain 
that PPI was an optional feature or that it added the insurance  without discussing it. 
I say this because  I can see that Mr R completed  a separate application  form for MPPI  
called a Mortgage  Repayments Protector  application. On this application  form a box 
has been ticked for accident  and sickness cover only and Mr R has signed this form 
agreeing to this. Having a separate application form would suggest to me that a 
conversation was had between  Mr and Mrs R and the representative from Natwest  about  
MPPI and the type of cover  they wanted. So, because of this form and what I know of 
Ref: DRN59257772how Natwest carried out sales at that time, I think it is more likely than not Natwest gave                   
Mr and Mrs R a choice to have PPI.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Natwest provided  advice to Mr and Mrs R or 
not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional  responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mr R (as the sole policy holder). But when I look at the information 
provided and also taking into consideration of what I know  of Natwest  sales  during this 
time, I dont think advice was given.  Natwest still had to ensure  that it provided  
information to Mr and Mrs R in a clear, fair and not misleading way however, so that they 
could make an informed  decision  on whether  they wanted the policy. 
And based on the information Ive seen,  I cant be entirely  sure that Natwest  did provide 
clear information to Mr and Mrs R. That said, I am not sure they would have acted 
differently (that is, not taken out the policy) if they had been properly informed.
I say this after considering Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale as he was the sole 
policy holder. Because, although Mr R says he had sick pay (6 months full and 6 months 
half of his pay), the MPPI  policy  would have paid out if he was sick or had an accident in 
addition to his provisions.  Having the policy in place  would mean  Mr R could use any 
sick pay he may have had to cover  other  expenses. I dont think  his means  at the time of 
sale were sufficient  for me reasonably to say that he wouldnt have had at least  some  
use for the policy. 
Mr R says he had a medical condition at the time of sale.  Our adjudicator has asked     
Mr R about this condition  as the policy has a limiting  term for pre-existing medical  
conditions. Mr R has said to our service  that the condition did not affect him day to day at 
the time of sale. So as this was the case, on balance, I dont think he would have been 
put off from having the cover provided  by the policy  if he had been given clearer 
information about this. I also think it is unlikely Mr R needed better advice or information 
about the policys other exclusions  and limitations and if he had received clear  
information on these  terms  I dont think it would have put him off either.
 
Finally, I havent seen enough  that would suggest to me that Natwest disclosed the costs 
of the policy  in a clear  way, but even  if it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs R would have done 
anything differently for the same  reason  as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing 
to suggest it was unaffordable.  So overall,  I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have 
made a different decision about  whether to take out PPI if better  information  had been 
provided.
In conclusion, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
Ref: DRN59257773ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925777