K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr A says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Barclays says its records show Mr A took the credit card out online. And its sent us 
screenshots of what it says the online application  form wouldve looked  like at the time. 
These show a section on PPI, which yes or no options to be selected to show  whether the 
customer wanted to take it out.
Barclays has also sent us a copy of Mr As credit card agreement. This included  a section on 
PPI with a pre-printed  statement that Mr A wanted his account to be covered.
Based on the evidence  I have, and what I understand about Barclays sales  practices at the 
time, I think Barclays  did make it clear to Mr A that he had a choice about the PPI. And that 
Mr A chose to take it, knowing he didnt  have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Barclays gave Mr A any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to him. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mr A. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like Mr A 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  couldve paid 
out for longer than he told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And he said he didnt 
have any savings or other means he couldve used to make his repayments  if he wasnt  
earning. So it looks like the PPI would have been  useful for Mr A if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr A off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN55564692my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5556469