K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A.s (Mapfre) settlement of his travel insurance claim. My references to 
Mapfre include its agents.
background
While on holiday  abroad Mr L fainted and had various tests in hospital.  He has a medical bill 
of about £11,000. 
Mapfre wouldnt pay the full claim.  It said:
Mr L hadnt  told it about his pre-existing heart condition 
the information from Mr Ls GP showed he had a heart attack and triple heart bypass in 
2003 for which he took three prescribed medications  and hed been reviewed by his GP 
four months before buying the policy 
if Mr L had told Mapfre about his heart condition it would have charged him a much 
higher premium. 
Mapfre paid a proportionate settlement of the claim which reflected the portion of the 
premium Mr L had paid against  what he should  have paid.
Mr L complained to us. In summary he said:
In May 2014 he took out a travel insurance policy on-line and disclosed his heart attack  
and surgery. He renewed the policy  in May 2015.  In December  2016  he applied  through  
the same website to renew the policy from December  2016 but as he had difficulties he 
took out the policy by phone instead.  Although he knows now that the policy he took out 
in 2016 was different to the two earlier policies he also knows now that all three had 
Mapfre as the insurer
when he took out the policy in December 2016 he believed the insurer  already had his 
medical history as he thought he was renewing the policy.  So when he was asked about 
his medical conditions he thought he had nothing more to tell  
Mapfre only asked  him about his medical history  in the two years before 
December 2016.  His heart attack and surgery was in 2003, outside the two years
he told Mapfre what heart medication  he was on and it failed to question why he was 
taking the medication
theres no connection  between his heart  condition and his claim condition so 
Mapfres decision to pay a proportionate  settlement  was disproportionately  
excessive. If I decided  that Mapfre didnt have to pay all of his claim, at most it 
should just deduct  the additional premium.
Our investigator thought Mapfres proportionate  settlement of the claim was fair.
Ref: DRN58416752Mr L disagrees and wants  an ombudsmans decision. He said that as he thought he was 
renewing the policy with the original insurer he believed the insurer only wanted to be told of 
any changes.  He detailed why he thought hed given  reasonable answers to the medical 
questions Mapfre asked  him. He also referred  to our website about how we approach 
misrepresentation and non-disclosure complaints.  He gave his thoughts on how the relevant 
legislation applies to his case. He said a case study  on our website took into account   the 
lack of any link between  a claim condition and a non-disclosed pre-existing medical condition 
in deciding the insurer shouldnt pay a proportionate  settlement.
Before I made my decision I asked Mapfre for the recording of the phone call between  Mr L 
and Mapfre. My findings from listening  to that call are included  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L but Im not upholding this complaint. 
I have to decide whether Mapfre fairly  and reasonably paid a proportionate settlement of 
Mr Ls claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mr L has done  considerable research  on our approach to complaints where an 
insurer says a consumer  didnt disclose all the medical conditions they should have when 
taking out an insurance policy. The relevant legislation, the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), hasnt  changed the way we look into cases about 
misrepresentation and non-disclosure. CIDRA reflects  the approach we were taking.
The policy Mr L took out in 2016 is completely  separate from his policies in 2014  and 2015, 
with a different  name. Mapfre is the insurer for the policies Mr L took out in 2014 and 2015 
and also the new policy he took out in December 2016. But that doesnt mean Mapfre  is 
responsible for investigating medical  condition  declarations Mr L made on the other policies. 
However, as Mapfre was the insurer for all the policies when Mr L complained it looked at 
what conditions he had disclosed  for the 2014  and 2015 policies. Mr L says in 2014  he 
disclosed his heart attack and heart  by-pass operation so he understood the insurer already 
had that information. But although the records show other medical  conditions  were disclosed 
theres no record of his heart attack or heart  surgery being  disclosed for those policies.
The fundamental issue is whether Mr L took reasonable care in answering clear questions  
Mapfre asked him about his health  in the December 2016 call when he took out he policy.
Ive listened to that call several  times.  Mapfre says nothing in the call about  the policy being 
a renewal of a previous policy or that Mr L only needed to tell it about changes to his health 
since he last took out a policy. I dont think Mr L could reasonably assume  Mapfre  knew 
about any previous  disclosures hed made  about  his health and/or he only had to tell it about 
changes to his health. 
Mr L says Mapfre didnt  say anything to make  him aware that it didnt know  his medical  
history. But that doesnt mean  he could  assume that Mapfre  did know.  In the call it gave him 
a clear warning that he had to answer the questions he was going to be asked taking 
reasonable care and inaccurate answers could result in his claim being declined.
Ref: DRN58416753In the call Mapfre asked  Mr L In the last two years have you or any person insured on this 
policy suffered from or received any form of medical  advice, medical treatment or 
medication for blood or circulatory  conditions. He said he had high cholesterol and high 
blood pressure  and been on medication for about  10 to 12 years.
He was asked  the same question for any heart related conditions. He said Yes thats the 
high blood pressure isnt it but other  than that covered in the previous question,  no.
Mr Ls GP report  to Mapfre shows Mr L is taking two medications  for hypertension and three  
medications for his heart conditions.
Mr L says Mapfre should  have known from the information he gave it about  his medication 
that he has heart related conditions. But Mapfre didnt ask Mr L to name  the medication hes 
taking, it just asked  how many.
Even if Mapfre had asked for a list of medication at that point, from Mr L's answers it would 
have no reason to think the medication  related to anything other than his high blood 
pressure and cholesterol.
I dont think Mr L took reasonable care in answering the clear questions  Mapfre  put to him in 
the call. Mr Ls heart attack and surgery didnt happen in the two year period  Mapfre  asked 
about but he was taking  medication relating to the heart problems hed had. It would  have 
been reasonable for him to be clear that he was taking medication  for heart  related  
conditions in addition  to his blood pressure medication. 
If Mapfre had known  about Mr Ls heart condition it would  have  covered  him but for a much 
higher premium. 
Mr L says that section 7 of Schedule  1, Part 1 of CIDRA says the insurer may reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim,  subject to the formula  CIDRA  sets out.
His point is that Mapfre  doesnt have to pay the claim proportionality. He suggests that one 
of the factors that could  affect whether a proportionate payment is fair is whether there was a 
link between  the claim medical condition and non-disclosed condition.
We do generally say that it's fair and reasonable for an insurer  to pay a proportionate 
settlement on the formula set out in CIDRA.  That includes where a claim medical condition 
and non-disclosed condition arent linked. 
The case  study  on our website Mr L has referred to is about a case  where we thought the 
consumer had taken  reasonable  care in answering  the questions  and the insurer  should pay 
the full claim. The case  isnt comparable with Mr Ls circumstances and I decide  each  case  
on its individual circumstances. 
There's no basis for me to say Mapfre must only deduct the additional premium from Mr Ls 
claim amount.
Overall Im satisfied that Mapfres  proportionate  payment was a fair and reasonable 
settlement of Mr Ls claim.
Ref: DRN58416754my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5841675