K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about the service he received when he called for assistance under his
breakdown policy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
All references to Admiral  in my decision include its agents.
background
Mr Fs car broke down  in Ireland while he, his wife and two young children were on holiday.
He called Admiral  for assistance. It was agreed  his car would be recovered to the ferry at the
port in Ireland a week later. It was to be collected by a second recovery  agent  when they
arrived at the port in the UK to their home.
Mr F complained to Admiral about the way the claim was handled. He said the contact
number provided  was incorrect as this put him through to the wrong call out company for his
policy. Only for his follow up call the next morning, he would  have had to pay for the call out.
It was agreed that Admiral  would recover Mr Fs car to the ferry. Admiral said Mr and
Mrs F didnt  have to check with the ferry company  if it was suitable for the recovery vehicle
to recover their car onto the ferry. But Mrs F did check, and was told it wasnt  suitable and
would need to change the ferry to the evening  departure.
Mrs F called Admiral to change the time of the ferry departure - but discovered  Admiral had
incorrectly booked the recovery for the day after. Admiral  assured  Mrs F it would change the
recovery to the correct day and time.
On the day of departure, Mrs F called Admiral to double check recovery  was arriving - given
what had happened  previously. Admiral  told her no booking had been made for the new
time. Admiral then rearranged. Mrs F says it was only then that they were made aware that
only one of them could  travel with recovery to the port - and the rest of the family would have
to make their own way. So she had to arrange  a taxi at her own cost.
Despite informing Admiral  of the ferry arrival  time in the UK which  was at 12.20am, recovery
didnt arrive until over two hours later. Mrs F was waiting in a separate  terminal with their two
young children  in the early hours  of the morning while her husband was on the ferry with the
car waiting  for recovery. Admiral told Mrs F recovery would  be able to take them home
without changing  recovery part way through. But this wasnt  correct. Mrs F was due at work
at 9am the following morning. She said they arrived home at 9.35am and she arrived  at work
over an hour later.
Throughout the claim, Mr and Mrs F said they had long and difficult  calls with Admiral.
Admiral upheld Mr Fs complaint. It offered  compensation  of £75 and increased  it to £150.
Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. I incorrectly thought  our 
investigator recommended Admiral  increased  the compensation it paid to £250,  which  Mr F 
didnt accept. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 April 2020. I thought  Admiral  should pay £400 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused.
Ref: DRN54756602Mr F correctly pointed  out that this was the amount the investigator had recommended, 
which I had missed. I apologised  for my mistake here. This however meant that my 
provisional decision was in line with the investigators recommendation. 
Mr F doesnt accept that £400 is enough  to reflect  the poor handling of their claim from start 
to finish by Admiral. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise Mr F will be disappointed,  but as 
I havent received  any new information,  my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision.
Mr F complained that he called the number provided on his policy  to register for assistance 
when calling  from Ireland. Hes provided  a copy of the policy document  where he got the
number from. In the policy Admiral provided, this number isnt listed.  And although Mr F
complained about this to Admiral, I cant see that this issue was addressed in its reply.
Mr F says Admiral  appears to have sent him two copies of his breakdown  cover policy: it
isnt his fault that one of them lists the wrong  number for his policy.
The company Mr F initially spoke to said they couldnt validate  a policy for Mr F. But they
could arrange  recovery the next day. Mr F was able to speak to Admiral  the following
morning on a different  number  and cancelled the recovery with the other company.
I dont have evidence  of the number  Mr F initially called. From the policy  documents  he
provided, there is an additional separate number to call for assistance  if calling  from Ireland.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr F dialled  this number - and I cant  see why he wouldnt as he
had broken down  in Ireland. So it seems  from the policy  documents  Admiral sent Mr F, the
number given to call from Ireland didnt connect  him to the appropriate company for the
cover under his policy.
Admiral accepted that it noted the wrong  pick up date as 28 August 2018. So when Mrs F
called to check on 27 August 2018, she had to go through the request again. This was a
couple of hours before  they were due to leave. So I can understand how stressful it must
have been for Mrs F to realise that no arrangements were in place and to have  to go through
the information again with Admiral.
Admiral accepted that the recovery agent didnt collect  their car from the UK port until around
2.30am. It said this was due to a miscommunication between  Admiral and the recovery
agent. The recovery agent said he thought the collection time was 4am.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls that took place  through the night from when Mr and 
Mrs F were leaving the ferry in the UK.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs F that the first call between  Admiral  and Mrs F was at 11,59am
when Mrs F called Admiral for an update. She said they were getting ready to leave the
ferry. In this call she said she was promised  a call back but hadnt  received one. The agent
apologised. The agent assured Mrs F that the recovery  agent  would be at the UK port when
they arrived.
Ref: DRN54756603There were a series of calls between Mrs F, Mr F and Admiral  between 12.28am  - after
arriving at the port - and 2.45am. During  these calls Mr and Mrs F were repeatedly told the
recovery agent was on their way.
Mr F was with the car on the ferry waiting  for the recovery agent. Its clear that Mr F was in
discussion with ferry staff who wanted  to know when his car would be moved off the ferry -
and its clear this was a cause of anxiety for Mr F. Mrs F was in a port terminal  with their
children.
Its clear from listening to the calls that Mr and Mrs F were  given incorrect information as to
the whereabouts of the recovery  agent  from the beginning.  Mrs F was told at 11.59pm  that
the recovery agent would be there in 20 minutes. In the same  call the agent said the
recovery would take Mrs F and their family the whole  way home. At 12.50am  Admiral  told
Mr F the recovery  agent was 15 minutes  away. At .1.11am Admiral  told Mr F the recovery
agent recorded the collection  for 4am. But even then, from the location the recovery  agent
gave Admiral, they should have been  at the port much sooner than advised.  At 1.51am
Mrs F called Admiral for an update. The agent who answered the call was laughing.
From what  Ive seen the recovery agent arrived between 2.30am and Sam.
Its very clear from the calls the level of distress and upset both Mr and Mrs F felt while they
were waiting for the recovery  agent to arrive.  Mr F was upset that his family  were waiting in a
terminal in the early hours of the morning  while he was with ferry staff that were waiting for
his car to be taken off the ferry. And he was frustrated by the number of updates he received
as to the whereabouts of the recovery agent  which were clearly  wrong.  Mrs F explained  that
she was due back at work  at 9am that morning.
Admiral accepted that it incorrectly told Mr F that a relay recovery  wouldnt be required once
they were recovered  from the ferry. Mr F and his family had to switch  recovery  part way
through their journey  home.
I think the level of service Admiral provided in this case  was very poor. Mr and Mrs F did
everything they could  to ensure correct  arrangements were  made:  I think  at every key stage
there was a failure by Admiral.
So in this case I think a reasonable  level of compensation  should be £400.  I think the impact
of Admirals failings - in particular the situation  Mr and Mrs F were in once they arrived  at the
port in the UK in the early  hours and the number of calls that took place - caused them both
considerable upset and distress.
I understand Admiral  reimbursed Mr and Mrs F for the taxi fare they paid for travel to the port
in Ireland.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay Mr F £400 compensation  in total for the distress  and upset it caused.
Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Ref: DRN54756604If Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475660