K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 to 
cover a mortgage and further advance. Miss B says Nationwide Building Society (NBS) 
mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss B took a mortgage in 1997 but did not take PPI at this time. The PPI was selected  in 
early 2002  with a further advance. Miss B took additional further advances in late 2002  and
2004, but no PPI was selected during these applications. 
The policy covered her mortgage payments if Miss B was unable  to work because  of illness,  
injury or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld in full. Miss B disagrees so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 16 January 2019  I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold  the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Miss B has replied explaining  she disagrees 
with my provisional decision.  Amongst other  concerns,  she re-iterated her concerns with the 
lack of documentation kept, as well as her view that she thought the PPI was permanently 
free. NBS has not made  any additional submissions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  the following.  
Currently, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
did Miss B agree to take the PPI?
Neither NBS nor Miss B have copies  of all the paperwork  from the time of sale, but given 
how long ago the policy was sold, I dont think thats  unreasonable. But where  there is 
limited information about  a sale,  I have to decide  what I think is more  likely given the 
evidence I do have  and the wider circumstances.
I understand Miss B originally took her mortgage in 1997 but did not take PPI at this time.
The PPI wasnt added  until 2002  when she made an application for a further  advance, so I 
think she wouldve known she didnt have to take the PPI to get the mortgage.  I also note 
she didnt take PPI with subsequent further advances.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Bs application  form from early 2002 and can see at this time she 
was asked if she wanted PPI. A typed answer of Yes has been added  to the form and 
shes signed the form agreeing to the contents  and information on it. This form indicates  
there is already  a PPI policy in place at the time, but NBS has confirmed this was an error  
Ref: DRN55238592and 2002 is the first time Miss B took PPI. Overall, I wouldve  expected Miss B to have 
looked over the form before signing it. So I think its more likely the PPI was discussed  and 
she agreed to take it.
did NBS make clear  there was a cost to the policy?
Miss B has added she was incentivised  by NBS to take the PPI by being led to believe it was 
a free policy. Providing incentives to customers is common and doesnt mean a policy was 
mis-sold  businesses were able to do this. But NBS did have to provide clear  information 
and shouldve made clear  the policy was only free for 12 months   which  NBS says it did do. 
So I have  to decide whether I think its likely  NBS made it clear there was a cost to the policy 
or whether Miss B agreed to take the PPI believing it would be free indefinitely.
As Miss B says, the application form does indicate the PPI is free and there  is no time limit 
mentioned as to how long the PPI wouldve been free for. But NBS says it wouldve made it 
clear during  the discussions that the PPI was only free for 12 months. I appreciate  Miss B 
strongly feels the policy was mis-sold because of this reason but weve seen a number of 
cases from around the time Miss B bought  her PPI and the 12 month free incentive  was not 
uncommon  I havent  seen a policy that was permanently free. So Id need persuasive 
evidence to uphold  her complaint on this basis.
I dont know what was said in the meeting Miss B had with NBS but while Ive thought 
carefully about what shes said, overall, based  on what Ive seen, I think  its more  likely NBS 
made it clear  there was a cost to the policy after the initial free period and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of the MPPI leaflet NBS was using around the time Miss B bought her PPI 
which NBS says wouldve  been  given to Miss B. And this does explain how costs  are worked 
out. NBS also says she wouldve been sent a separate  insurance  schedule setting out the 
cost  although due to the time thats  passed  it no longer has a copy  of her schedule.  But it 
has sent a sample  copy of the schedule that was used at the time Miss B bought  her PPI 
and this did set out the cost, benefit and extent of cover. Ive seen schedules  like these 
routinely sent when  NBS sold PPI so I think at the time its likely it wouldve been  sent as 
part of NBSs usual  process.
NBS also says it sent Miss B annual renewal notices  each year with the cost set out on them 
and Ive seen  a copy of her annual notice from 2005. This clearly  sets out the cost of the 
policy. Furthermore, Miss Bs mortgage  statements from the first year after the PPI was set 
up also set out the amount of premium  charged. NBS says her subsequent mortgage  
statements much  like the renewal notices wouldve shown her there was a cost. Miss B 
doesnt appear to have  questioned why these  were being charged until many years after the 
sale, when she first raised her mis-sale complaint.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely NBS made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Miss B agreed to take it knowing there  was a cost.
But NBS says it made an error and charged Miss B during the free 12 month  period. NBS 
has since offered to refund the amounts charged  plus interest and sent Miss B a cheque for 
this amount. This offer is in line with what we would  normally expect NBS to do to rectify this 
type of error so I dont think it needs  to do any more than that.
did NBS provide clear information?
Ref: DRN55238593NBS didnt advise  Miss B to take the PPI so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information NBS gave Miss B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Miss B was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt  look like Miss B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover.  So it would  have been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.
While Im not persuaded this policy was mis-sold, I want to re-assure Miss B that I have 
considered everything  shes  said and looked at all the documentation  shes  pointed  out to 
me. As I initially explained,  this policy was sold some 16 years  ago now and its not 
reasonable to expect  businesses to keep a copy of each piece of correspondence  it has sent 
to her during such a long period of time. So Ive had to make  a decision based on the 
evidence available  including  the documentation  NBS and Miss B have retained, the samples  
NBS has provided, and the wider circumstances in addition to Miss Bs testimony. With 
everything Ive seen, I dont think this policy  was mis-sold.
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
cancellation
Miss B says she cancelled  this policy in 2003 but says it was re-instated  without  her 
permission. NBS says it re-instated the policy in 2004 with no break  in cover at Miss Bs 
request.
Miss B spoke to NBS in 2003  and 2004  on the telephone but there  are no call recordings,  
which, as Ive explained above,  isnt unreasonable given how long ago these events took 
place. But I have seen  call notes  of what the business recorded during these discussions.  
One note suggests Miss B requested the policy to be cancelled in 2003,  but a subsequent 
note shows she called  in and said it shouldnt have been cancelled  so the policy  was re- 
instated at her request. She has since kept the PPI in place for a number of years despite 
being sent a number of documents showing it was live on her account   when she couldve 
cancelled it if she hadnt asked for it to be re-instated. So I havent seen enough to persuade
me that Miss B hadnt asked for the policy to be re-instated.
commission
But NBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  NBS didnt tell Miss B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Miss B replied  to my provisional  decision raising concerns over the number of documents  
NBS has said it no longer retains.  Shes  requested copies of documents she says she hasnt 
Ref: DRN55238594received over the years and also requested copies of the telephone  notes regarding the 
cancellation and reinstatement of her PPI policy. Ive sent her copies of those  screenshots 
Ive relied on and explained  that Im satisfied  Ive seen enough evidence that I can decide  
this case fairly. But she is free to request any documents she wishes from NBS directly  for 
her records.  She hasnt sent in any further submissions.   
Miss B has also re-iterated that she thought the PPI was free and not just for 12 months.  But 
as Ive explained above, I think  it was unlikely NBS sold a completely free PPI policy.  Given 
what I know of how NBS generally sold policies like these, Id need  persuasive evidence to 
uphold her complaint  on this basis  which I havent  seen. I would also add that if Miss B did 
think it was free, Id wonder why she would  cancel a free insurance  policy.  
Miss B has also asked NBS to confirm how it charged her the backdated premiums when it 
re-instated the policy. But as Ive explained,  this reinstatement was done in 2004 and NBS 
has already provided  copies of the evidence  it still retains. I also dont think  knowing if/how  
the premiums were collected  affects  the outcome of the case. Its clear the policy was re-
instated and the telephone note strongly  suggests to me it was re-instated at Miss Bs 
request. I would also clarify as NBS re-instated  the policy rather than sold a new one, I 
wouldnt expect NBS to go over the entire  sales process again at this time. 
Miss B also said NBS sent her cheques for both the refund of the first 12 months premiums 
and the commission  payments  in 2018 with interest. Miss B hasnt cashed these cheques as 
she wanted this service to independently  review her case. She now wanted to know whether 
NBS would send  her additional  cheques  with updated interest calculations. NBS has said if 
Miss B accepts my final decision, it would cancel the original cheques and re-issue  her with 
updated cheques. 
Miss B has also raised concerns over a backdated  claim  and her mortgage  itself  Ive 
explained these  are separate issues that she would need to raise separately with NBS and 
her PPI insurer  in the first instance   and confirmed Ive not looked at this as part of her 
complaint about  the mis-sale of her PPI. 
Overall, having again  reviewed Miss Bs case  in full  without any new points for me to 
consider, I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN55238595what the business needs  to do
NBS should refund to Miss B the PPI premiums it charged for the first 12 months of the 
policy. It should:
Pay Miss B the amount she paid each  month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year*.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
For the remaining  premiums, NBS has to pay back  to Miss B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  NBS should also pay 
back to Miss B any extra interest  Miss B paid because of that.
NBS should  pay back to Miss B the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. NBS 
should also pay Miss B 8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to do what Ive said above to put things right 
concerning the wrongly charged  premiums  and commission charged on the PPI premiums. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5523859