K820x#14complaint
Mr M says The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 1999. The policy  was taken  out at
the same  time as Mr M applied for a credit card. It gave him protection  against  accident, 
sickness and unemployment, as well as some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr M says the wording We strongly recommend you take out this cover on the application 
form made him think taking out PPI was a condition of being accepted for the credit card. 
And that he might be declined if he didnt. But the form included a box to tick if you wanted 
the cover. I think this shows  it was optional. And I can find nothing  on the form that I think 
could reasonably have led Mr M to believe  that without PPI his application might be declined. 
So, on balance, I think RBS made it clear to Mr M the PPI was optional and he agreed  to 
take it out.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for
him. It was up to Mr M to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing in mind
his ability  to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job.
Mr M says he was never given any information about the policy,  and the costs  and benefits  
were not made clear to him. I agree RBS didnt give Mr M all the information about the PPI 
that he needed before he made  his decision. But it seems Mr M chose to take out the policy  
and so appears to have  wanted this type of cover. He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  
Mr M told the bank he was entitled  to six months full pay and six months  half pay if he was 
sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. Hes told us 
he would  have received some  redundancy pay but again the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this work  benefit and for up to 12 months.  It would have allowed  him to protect 
any lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial security  at an already  difficult 
time. Mr M also said his late mother would have helped but thats not suitable  alternative 
protection, its not guaranteed and peoples financial situation can change.
So, given his circumstances  at the time and the policy terms, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.
It follows that I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Ref: DRN55920512Mr M also raised that he had three other complaints  upheld, but I can comment here only on 
the individual merits of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5592051