K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited wont  honour  a pension valuation  it 
provided to him. 
background 
In 1979, Mr D took out a with-profits pension policy with Provider X. The policy included a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR),  which meant that on retirement the policy would contain a 
guaranteed minimum  rate for converting  the pension savings into an annuity.
Provider Xs records indicate  that in 1991 it didnt receive an expected payment into the 
pension. Because  of this, in August 1991  the policy was put into a paid  up status. This 
meant no further contributions could be made to the policy,  it would no longer receive  any 
with-profits bonuses,  and all relevant  bonuses  had been added to the policy to that date. A 
Nominal Capital  Sum (NCS) was calculated which included  the declared  bonuses up to that 
time. 
On 18 November 1992 Mr Ds pension policy was re-instated. Provider X reinstated  the 
pension policy using  the NCS  value  calculated in 1991 when the policy had been made paid 
up and bonuses declared. 
Sometime after this, Phoenix Life took over the policy.
In 2018 Mr D was to reach the age at which he intended  to retire and take his pension  pot. 
So in February 2018 Phoenix Life sent him a Countdown to Retirement pack  that set out his 
options for taking  his pension pot. The letter said his pension pot had an estimated value of 
£84,506. In April 2018 Phoenix Life sent Mr Ds financial  adviser  a transfer pack which 
indicated the same value. 
However in July 2018 Mr D received an annual plan update showing a value of £41,377.  Mr 
D and his financial adviser complained to Phoenix Life about the fall in the value of his 
pension. In summary, they complained  that Mr D had been relying on incorrect figures  since 
1992, that if hed been  given correct information  earlier he wouldve transferred the pension 
to another provider,  and that hed lost approximately £10,000 in tax-free cash that hed 
intended to use to complete building plans on his farm. 
Phoenix Life responded in early August 2018. It explained  that it had been issuing incorrect 
values for the pension  policy since it was re-instated due to the 1991 paid up NCS value 
being used incorrectly.  This meant that all subsequent calculations made up of the NCS  plus 
bonuses were incorrect because the NCS figures  included the previously added  bonuses in 
error. It confirmed that the actual value of his pension was as shown in the July 2018 update,  
namely £41,377, and that he wasnt entitled  to receive  the higher amount. 
Phoenix Life acknowledged that there was a severe loss of expectation  as to what  Mr D 
could plan for with his pension and paid Mr D £500 in compensation. It also said it was sorry 
that the incorrect information  had impacted Mr Ds decision not to transfer his pension  
previously and confirmed  that it would consider any financial losses due to the error  if Mr D 
provided it with evidence.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN52630662One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He didnt agree that Phoenix Life should  
honour the higher pension valuation as ultimately Mr D was never entitled to receive the 
higher amount based on the contributions  he had made. 
The adjudicator also considered the likelihood that Mr D wouldve transferred his Phoenix  
Life policies along  with other  policies  he transferred  in 2010. In April 2010,  Mr D received 
financial advice in relation to his retirement provision. At the time he had four pension 
policies, two of which were with Phoenix Life including the one which  is the subject of his 
complaint. Mr D was advised  to transfer  two policies  to a new arrangement,  but it was 
agreed that he should retain his Phoenix Life policies until he retired  based on the benefits 
provided by the GARs. Because of the GARs, our adjudicator didnt think Mr D would have 
transferred them even if he had been aware at the time of the correct  value. 
But our adjudicator did think that the loss of expectation was significant and he 
recommended that Phoenix Life should  pay Mr D an additional £500 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Phoenix Life accepted the adjudicators view and the compensation recommendation. 
However, Mr D felt that the amount was insufficient and he should  receive  at least  £10,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its plain that Mr D is distressed by being  
told he will receive more than £40,000  less than he expected. Thats completely 
understandable. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint him, as Im not going  to tell 
Phoenix Life that it must pay the higher valuation. 
Theres no doubt here that Phoenix Life provided  Mr D with an incorrect value for his 
pension pot for a great number of years. But that doesnt mean  Mr D is entitled to receive  
that incorrect amount.  Our service aims to put things right when theyve gone wrong  to do 
this, we look to put people  back into the position they wouldve been in, but for the business 
mistake. In this case that includes considering whether Mr D has suffered any financial loss 
and what compensation is reasonable for his loss of expectation. 
Mr D says hes suffered a financial loss because if hed had the correct  information in 2010  
he wouldve transferred his two Phoenix  Life pensions  then,  and he wouldve achieved a 
better return elsewhere. One of those two policies  is the subject of this complaint, but he 
says he considered them together, given the smaller  size of the other  pension  policy.  
I understand Mr Ds position, but Im not convinced that he wouldve done so at that time. 
Regardless of the size of the pot, the GAR remained a very valuable benefit,  and I think it is 
unlikely that an advisor  wouldve recommended that Mr D give up that benefit, even if theyd 
known the actual fund value was smaller.  The important aspect, irrespective of the fund 
value (which would have been  corrected  before  transferring  out), was the GAR. Transferring 
a policy  with a lower than expected fund value would still have simply meant losing out on 
the GAR.
Its possible Mr D mayve decided to go against  advice from his adviser, but Im not 
persuaded that this wouldve happened. I think its more  likely than not that Mr D wouldve 
accepted advice to retain  the benefit  of the GAR.  Because of this, theres no need  for me to 
Ref: DRN52630663consider whether the alternative pension investment could actually  provide  a better return  
than the GAR, as Mr D suggests it wouldve. 
I dont doubt Mr D when  he says he had plans for the additional tax-free  cash he wouldve 
received from the incorrect  valuation. He will get some £10,000 less. But I cant  say that this 
is a financial loss, because he wasnt actually entitled to it. And he hasnt provided any 
evidence that he entered  into any agreements relying on receiving that £10,000 from when 
he first received the incorrect  valuation, which was around April 2018.
What is plain is that Mr D has suffered a significant loss of expectation,  as Phoenix Life 
acknowledges. He expected to receive  around  £40,000 more  than he will ultimately receive.  
Ive no doubt that Mr D has experienced more than minor distress. And hes experienced 
inconvenience because  he mayve had to rethink  his plans for the building  work on his farm. 
Im going  to tell Phoenix Life to pay Mr D an additional £500  for his distress  and 
inconvenience. This is £1,000 in total. While  this is a good deal less than Mr D has 
requested, I think it is fair  it is more than a token amount. So while  I know  this will 
disappoint Mr D and Im sorry for that, I wont be telling Phoenix Life to do anything other 
than pay the additional compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited must pay Mr D £500 in 
compensation. To be clear, this is in addition to the £500  it has already paid him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5263066