K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on his motor insurance policy and then voided it (treated it as though it had never existed).
background
Mr S took out a policy with Admiral in 2016.  He told Admiral he had no driving  offences  on 
his record during the previous five years. Mr S later made a claim on the policy.  In going 
through the claims  process, Admiral  found  that Mr S had an MS90  endorsement on his 
record from 2014. It was issued due to his failure  to identify  a driver caught speeding on 
camera in a car for which  he was recorded  as the registered keeper.
Mr S told Admiral  he hadnt been  aware  of the endorsement. He said the Notice  of Intended 
Prosecution (NIP)  would have  gone to the address hed formerly shared with his wife 
(Ms H). He said she was the registered keeper of both their cars. He said when  he asked 
her about  the matter,  she said shed seen the NIP and had identified  him as the driver. 
Admiral said only a registered keeper could be convicted of failing to provide the identity of a 
driver. The police later confirmed that was the case.  Admiral said if Ms H had been the cars 
registered keeper   and hadnt replied  to the NIP - shed have been given the MS90 
endorsement. Alternatively, if shed said Mr S was the driver,  it said Mr S would have been 
given a speeding endorsement. It also said that had Mr S told the Driver and Vehicle  
Licencing Agency (DVLA) he had a new address, the NIP would have been sent there.  
Admiral said it wouldnt  have offered Mr S cover had it known about the offence.  
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted  reasonably. She said it asked Mr S a clear 
question about  motoring offences and he gave it an inaccurate response.  Mr S said he 
hadnt known  about the MS90. But the investigator  thought he should have told the DVLA  
where he was living,  so hed be contactable.  She thought it was fair for Admiral to retain his 
premium. Mr S later gave  us copies of police records  from 2014.  But the investigator didnt 
think they helped  his case. 
Mr S then instructed solicitors to act for him. They said Mr S couldnt have given the DVLA  a 
new address, as he was between  addresses  at the time. They  said Ms H must have replied 
to the NIP. As Mr S wasnt aware  of it, or of the offence on his record,  they said he hadnt 
made a qualifying misrepresentation to Admiral  under the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).The solicitors said hed acted innocently.  They  
referred to some of our previous decisions in support of their view.  
Admiral said that given Mr Ss MS90 conviction, the car must have been registered  to him. 
And it said he should have been aware of his own driving history - or he should have 
accepted Admirals offer to check it when he took out the policy. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN55153082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Under CIDRAs provisions, Admiral  has to show that Mr S made a qualifying  
misrepresentation to it. It must show it asked him a clear question and that he didnt take 
reasonable care when  he gave the wrong answer to it. Admiral also has to show  that the 
information it asked  for was important to it. And to justify a voidance, Admiral has to show  
that it wouldnt have  offered  Mr S cover had it known all the facts 
The question Mr S was asked online was Have you committed  any driving offences or had 
any fixed penalty notices  in the last 5 years? I think that was a clear question.  Admiral  later 
sent Mr S a Motor Proposal Confirmation form. It asked him to contact it if any details on the 
form were wrong. The form showed that Mr S had told Admiral hed committed no driving 
offences and had received no fixed penalties in the last five years.
Mr S has always accepted that Admiral asked him a clear question, and that the answer he 
gave it was wrong. His argument is that he didnt know it was wrong, so he shouldnt be 
penalised. But I think it was fair for Admiral to expect  Mr S to be aware of his own driving 
history. And I think he had a duty to inform the DVLA that he was no longer living at the 
address it had on record for him. By not doing  so, in my opinion  he avoided being  notified of 
any potential driving offences through the post. Thats  how drivers often find out about 
situations they didnt know about,  as many offences  are caught on camera. 
Any number of such notices could have been  sent to Mr Ss former address. And it seems 
he knew Ms H may well not pass on letters to him. So I think he allowed a situation to exist 
where he was likely to be ignorant of any attempt by the police or the DVLA  to contact him.  
I dont think Mr S can reasonably rely on the fact that he didnt have a new permanent 
address. I think any reasonable consumer in his position would have ensured that all their 
post went to a secure address  such as that of a family member.  
The issue  was complicated  by the fact that Mr S disputed being the cars registered  keeper. 
But the police confirmed that they would only issue a NIP to the person on record  in that 
capacity. DVLA records show that Mr S was the cars registered  keeper at the time. So the 
NIP was sent to him at his former  address.
Mr S says Ms H told him she replied to the NIP naming  him as the speeding driver. But the 
only firm evidence we have on this point is the written police record. It shows  that Mr S 
identified Ms H as the driver. Theres no reason to think the police record  isnt correct. 
The police asked  Mr S, as the cars  registered  keeper, to re-nominate the cars driver.  That 
was because by then theyd seen the speed camera footage. They thought it showed that a 
man was driving the car. 
Mr S says he didnt see the letter from the police (with a photo of the cars driver) at the time. 
Hes seen it since then, and he thinks the driver is a male friend of his wife. But as the police 
got no response from Mr S to their request for a re-nomination, Mr Ss prosecution for not 
identifying the driver  went ahead.
Ref: DRN55153083I think its more likely than not that Mr S saw the NIP. The police record  makes  any other 
account of what  happened very unlikely. If Mr S identified the wrong person as the driver,  
he needed to correct it. He didnt do that, possibly because he didnt see the follow-up letter. 
But I think he should have  ensured that hed see it, by making arrangements to be 
contactable  and if he saw the follow-up letter, he should have replied to it. 
Based on Mr Ss account of events, I think his actions in losing control of his post led to his 
being unaware of his own driving record. That meant he gave the wrong details to Admiral.  
So I think it was fair for it to say he didnt take reasonable care when applying for the policy.
Ive looked at the earlier decisions  Mr Ss solicitors highlighted. I think there are material 
differences between  those cases   where  the ombudsmen concluded that the consumers 
actions were entirely innocent - and Mr Ss case.    
Admiral has shown us that its underwriting criteria wouldnt have allowed it to offer a policy  to 
Mr S had it been aware of his driving record. In those circumstances, CIDRA allows  Admiral  
to treat the policy as though it never  existed. Admiral then had to decide whether  it thought  
Mr S had only acted carelessly  or recklessly,  in which case  it was entitled  to keep his 
premium. Admiral didnt refund Mr Ss premium, as it thought hed acted recklessly.  
I think it was reasonable  for Admiral to conclude that Mr S had behaved  recklessly.  In my 
opinion, his actions  show that he didnt care whether  the details he gave Admiral about his 
driving record were correct or not. And he didnt care whether the issue was relevant and 
important to Admiral. So in my view it was fair for it to retain  his premium.  
Initially, Mr S also complained about  Admiral having  said his car was a category D total loss 
and its action in making  a record of that on the Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud and Theft  
Register (MIAFTR).  Since then, Mr S seems to have accepted  that Admiral acted 
reasonably in that regard. But for the avoidance of doubt, I think  Admirals actions and its 
explanation about why it couldnt amend the MIAFTR  record were reasonable.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5515308