K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the way Telefonica Insurance S.A. handled  his claim under a mobile 
phone insurance  policy.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended partly to uphold  the complaint. I set out an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
Mr F took out screen replacement mobile  phone insurance with Telefonica through  his 
network providers store.  On 7 August Mr F contacted Telefonica as hed damaged his 
phone. It arranged to swap his phone  with a replacement model the following day, 8 August.  
But the delivery driver wouldnt wait for Mr Fs phone as it wasnt ready when the driver 
arrived to collect it. 
It wasnt until 10 August that Telefonica  swapped the phone for a replacement model. But 
Mr F found that the replacement had only 64GB of storage rather  than the 256GB of storage 
on his original phone. He asked for a replacement that day. Telefonica said that wasnt 
possible but it arranged  to swap the phone  on 11 August.
On 11 August Telefonica emailed Mr F to say that the delivery  would, in fact, be on 
13 August. It noted a change in policy details form with a new address, to which the phone  
would be delivered.  Mr F was unhappy with the delay and that the address hadnt been 
changed earlier. 
Mr F received the replacement phone,  but said he was unhappy with its quality,  that the 
phone had been added to his account without his agreement  and that Telefonica wouldnt  
tell him where  the replacement phone had come from. He also raised complaints about the 
time hed spent dealing with Telefonica,  which meant he was losing earnings, that he 
couldnt get a replacement phone  from the network  providers  store  and about the sale of the 
policy. He said hed been told hed get a new handset when the policy  was sold to him.
Telefonica upheld  his complaint but only in part, and offered him £50 compensation for its 
service delays. The cheque it sent him went to the wrong address,  and Mr F said he wasnt 
happy with the amount anyway. He came to us.
Our investigator thought that Telefonica hadnt mis-sold the policy, and it had been  able to 
send him a remanufactured or refurbished phone rather than a new one. He thought 
Telefonicas offer of £50 compensation was reasonable for its accepted  shortcomings. Mr F 
didnt agree so the complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I agree  with most  of our investigators findings, but I am likely partly to uphold this complaint. 
Ive considered all Mr Fs concerns but in this decision Ill focus on what  I think  is the central 
issue in this complaint   the level of compensation that is fair.
Ref: DRN53541292I understand Mr F is unhappy that Telefonica didnt supply a new phone,  but rather a 
refurbished one. In my experience, most mobile phone insurance  policies say the insurer  
can supply refurbished or remanufactured stock rather than brand new phones. Its unlikely 
Mr F could  have got a policy which didnt include this term. And wed expect the insurer  to 
provide a warranty or guarantee for at least as long as the original  phone  when supplying a 
replacement model.  
Telefonica hasnt told us what instructions it gave Mr F about packaging his phone  up for the 
delivery driver to collect from him, and to swap with the new phone. I can see the delivery  
driver might have a tight delivery schedule. But I currently  think  it was poor service  that the 
driver (acting on behalf  of Telefonica)  wouldnt wait at least a short  time for Mr F to collect  
the phone  from his office. 
Telefonica then supplied the wrong model  of phone. Mr F explained he couldnt  back-up his 
information to the first replacement phone because the back-up required a much larger  
storage capacity than the much smaller capacity phone supplied  by Telefonica.  So Mr F then 
had to wait again for a correct capacity  phone.
Ive read Mr Fs comments about  the personal and professional impact on him by not having 
the mobile phone  replaced promptly with the correct capacity phone. Consequential loss isnt 
covered under his policy. And, even so, I think its difficult for me to find that Mr F missed  out 
on business deals  solely because of the issues with replacing his phone. 
But I do consider  that Mr F was most  frustrated  and inconvenienced by the poor service he 
received. Telefonica  will know that a mobile  phone is very important to its customers, which 
is why they take out this type of insurance.  Mr F explained  his concerns and that he was 
losing business  while spending time rearranging  the deliveries and complaining.  Telefonicas  
level of service was poor as its acknowledged. I dont think  £50 is enough to reflect the 
inconvenience caused to Mr F. 
As I understand it, the compensation cheque  that Telefonica sent to the wrong address was 
cancelled and not replaced.  I am currently minded to award Mr F a total of £150 
compensation. This is in line with awards Ive made in cases of similar severity,  and I think  
its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr F responded to say Id not mentioned  hed been unable to use his mobile  as a phone  until 
it was replaced, because hed been unable to back it up. Hed not able to speak to his 
children and his businesses suffered as no-one could reach him during one of his biggest 
weeks when he had a number of scheduled meetings. Also he was inconvenienced  by 
having to speak to Telefonica several times a day, and was hung  up on, with abysmal  
service. The error wasnt necessary as the network  provider whod sold the phone was the 
one both insuring  and sending the replacement to him, but didnt acknowledge this or 
address it amicably.  The address on file wasnt the one hed given them and hed not lived 
there for several years,  and the address wasnt updated despite several calls to change it. 
Telefonica responded to say that it accepted  my provisional decision and didnt have any 
further information to add.  
Ref: DRN53541293my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Fs comments but they dont change my mind about the fair outcome 
in this case. I acknowledge he was without  a working phone  for a week  during a busy  time, 
causing him inconvenience both at a business  and personal level.  Telefonicas  service was 
poor and it should  have  updated his address. The network provider didnt have to replace 
the phone  though, as this was Telefonicas responsibility as the insurer.  
I still think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. Mr F was inconvenienced  but I dont 
think I can fairly award a higher level of compensation.  So for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision and here I partly  uphold the complaint,  and Telefonica  must pay Mr F a 
total of £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  both in my provisional decision and in this final decision, I partly  
uphold this complaint.  I require  Telefonica Insurance S.A. to pay Mr F £150 compensation, in 
total, for distress and inconvenience.
Telefonica must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay simple  interest*  on 
the compensation at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my final decision until the date 
of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Telefonica Insurance  S.A. considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much  its taken off. It should also 
give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5354129