K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a credit card. Mr R says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  mis-sold 
him the policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr R says the PPI was added to his account as part of the package and he wasnt given the 
option to say no to the policy. But Mr R first took out his credit card in 1997 and the PPI 
wasnt added until 2004. Ive seen a copy of his credit card application form from 1997 and in 
this its clear Mr R had the option to say yes or no to the policy - and he chose to decline the 
policy at this point.  Ive also seen screen  shots  of Barclays internal system  which shows the 
PPI was added to the account in 2004. So I think Mr R wouldve known he didnt have to 
take out the PPI in order to get the credit  card.
Ive thought about what Mr R said about being  unaware the PPI was added  to his account,  
but Ive not seen any other evidence to support  this. Barclays  has supplied  a copy  of the call 
scripts it says wouldve been used around the time - and in the absence of a call recording or 
any notes from the call this is the best evidence available of what is likely to have happened. 
These show the PPI wouldve been  presented as optional and Barclays wouldve explicitly  
asked Mr R if he wanted the cover. As the PPI was then applied  to his account  I think  its 
likely he said yes to the policy.
So while I appreciate what Mr R has said, based on the evidence  Ive seen, and in the 
absence of any stronger  evidence to support what Mr R has said,  I think its likely Barclays  
made it clear  Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out although I 
can understand why he cant remember this.
Barclays advised Mr R to take out the policy so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
policy was right for him  and from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time I think it 
was. I say this because Mr R was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by 
anything which might make it more difficult for him to make  a claim, like having  an existing 
medical condition  or unusual employment circumstances. 
Mr R says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer at the time,  but he hasnt been able 
to tell us how long his full sick pay wouldve lasted.  In any event,  the PPI wouldve paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event  Mr R was suddenly unable to work,  and this wouldve been 
in addition to this sick pay so these funds  couldve been used for other  expenses. Overall, I 
still think the policy was suitable for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen, and for all the reasons  I think the policy  wouldve been 
suitable for Mr R, I think the policy wouldve been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
Ref: DRN59693632also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr R says he was made  unemployed shortly after the policy was sold to him and he wasnt 
told he couldve claimed on it. But as Ive said above, I think  Mr R knew  about the PPI at the 
point of sale and he chose to take it out. I dont know why Mr R didnt try to make  a claim on 
the policy at the time he was made unemployed - perhaps he had forgotten  he had it. In any 
event, this decision considers what happened at the time the PPI was sold to Mr R and I 
havent found any reason why I think it was mis-sold to him. Mr R also says he later became 
self-employed and the policy wouldve no longer been  suitable.  But again,  this is not 
something Ive considered  as Ive only looked  at his circumstances at the point of sale. It 
was then Mr Rs responsibility to inform Barclays of his change  in circumstances and 
consider if the policy was still needed.   
For all the reasons outlined above  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  This means Barclays  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But Barclays  Bank PLC does have to pay back  to Mr R any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5969363