K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss B had eight loans  with Uncle Buck. The fifth loan was rolled over  meaning 
repayment of the loan was deferred  in this case the loan was deferred twice. The 
adjudicator referred  to the existence  of 10 loans but Im satisfied its more accurate to refer 
to eight loans  and two rollovers. This is purely semantic and doesnt  make a different to the 
outcome of Miss Bs complaint.
The adjudicators opinion was that Uncle Buck  was wrong to have approved the third loan 
and all the loans  which succeed it. 
Uncle Buck  had in fact already offered in its final response letter to refund the interest  and 
charges for loans  4 (June 2014) to 7 (November 2014) inclusive. It had also offered to write 
off the small outstanding  balance remaining on the final loan, loan 8. It didnt  agree  to extend 
the offer to refund interest and charges to the two additional loans recommended  by the 
adjudicator.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide. Ill focus primarily on 
the loans still in dispute  loans three and eight.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Bs case. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss B could repay  her loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind,  
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN55825072I dont think that the pattern of lending  demonstrated  by itself that further lending would be 
unsustainable by the time of loan 3, which  Miss B borrowed in March  2014. Miss B had only 
been borrowing  from Uncle Buck for about 46 days by this point   although inclusive of 
loan 3 shed borrowed  more than £600  and taken all three  loans in rapid  succession.  So a 
pattern suggesting  a reliance on short-term loans was emerging,  even  if not yet established.
So its possible Uncle  Buck  couldve lent to Miss B, if proportionate checks suggested 
lending was affordable. I dont  think, however, that Uncle  Buck did carry out proportionate 
checks before approving  loan 3. It seems to have assessed Miss Bs income and 
expenditure (although its not entirely clear if all of the expenditure figures  came  from Miss B, 
or whether they also include statistical data).  Uncle Buck also says it carried  out credit 
checks but Ive not seen  the results of these checks so dont place much  weight  on this 
statement.
On the basis of Miss Bs declared income of £1,375 per month and the expenditure data of 
£425.31 per month Uncle Buck worked  out that Miss B had disposable income  of £949.70 
per month  meaning  the repayment of £539.80 was apparently affordable.
I think Uncle Buck needed to go further than relying  on statistical data and declarations of 
income and expenditure for loan 3; in my view this wasnt proportionate in the 
circumstances. I say this because the repayment was the equivalent of about  39% of 
Miss Bs declared income which, even for someone who said they were living  with their 
parent(s), is a significant commitment. The loan was also for much  more than the first two 
loans  which were  only for £100 and £125 each. Loan 3 was also approved  just three  days  
after loan two was repaid   suggesting  Miss B had experienced  a shortfall  in her income, 
perhaps as a result of repaying a much smaller loan than she was then applying  for.
With this in mind, I think a proportionate check wouldve included asking Miss B for some 
form of proof of her income and expenditure. Our adjudicator thought that had Uncle Buck  
carried out proportionate checks for loan 3, it wouldve  seen that Miss B was borrowing 
regularly from other  short-term lenders (at least  six in the month before loan 3 by my count). 
And that she was relying on these loans plus her overdraft to meet her ordinary expected 
outgoings, not as a result of a temporary cash flow problem. Ive come to the same 
conclusions  and I dont think it was fair for Uncle Buck to lend in these  circumstances. 
Proportionate check wouldve revealed a reliance on high-cost credit which, at the time of 
loan three,  was already likely to mean  further lending wouldnt be sustainable.
Turning to loan 8, I think it ought  to have been clear  to Uncle Buck from the pattern of 
lending that the loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable.  As Uncle  Buck said in its final 
response letter: I can see some of the loans were funded within  quick succession. 
I consider we ought to have been aware that you were  becoming reliant  on our loans, as a 
result of this.
All of the loans  were funded in quick succession   theres nothing  different about loan 8 in 
that respect.  It was the largest of all Miss Bs loans by far and it formed  part of the same  
chain of unsustainable lending as the loans Uncle Buck has already agreed to uphold.  Im 
therefore also upholding the complaint about loan 8.
Ref: DRN55825073putting things right
Uncle Buck  must:
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid from loan 3 (31 May 2014) onwards**
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Miss B paid the interest 
and charges (if she did) until the date of settlement
remove from Miss Bs credit history  any adverse  information about loans 3 to 5 and 
all information about loans 6 to 8.
** I understand  loan 8 may still be outstanding. If it is, Uncle Buck  can instead rework loan 8 
to remove all interest and charges from the outset and treat any payments made as if they 
were payments towards  the principal.  If there  is still an outstanding balance, Uncle Buck can 
offset this against  the net redress  for the other loans. If Miss B has paid more  than the 
principal, it should  refund the amount she paid above this, adding 8% simple interest from 
the date of the overpayments until the date of settlement.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Miss B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5582507