K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in March 1996. Mr I says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays), mis-sold  him the PPI when 
he applied  for the credit  cards by post.
background
Mr I bought the policies in March  1996 at the same time as applying for two credit cards   a 
Visa and a Mastercard.  Mr I completed one application form when applying for both credit  
cards. A separate PPI policy was attached to each card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Is case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why below.
Mr I says he wasnt given an option  of having  the credit cards  without the PPI. He says that 
had he been given a choice, he would  have declined it. So, Ive thought about what hes said 
alongside the additional information Ive seen from Barclays.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of Mr Is credit  agreement. This shows Mr I had the 
option of selecting whether or not he wanted  the PPI added to his credit card accounts. 
Theres a tick in the box next to the statement, Yes, I want  my Barclays  account(s)  to be 
covered against  unemployment, accident,  sickness and death. If Mr I didnt want the PPI, he 
could have ticked the no box. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Mr I 
would have understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think  he would have selected the 
PPI if he didnt want to take it out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr I so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr I got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr I about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been  particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr I chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN59321882Mr I has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
from his employer if he was too unwell to work.  He says this shows that he didnt need the 
PPI as his existing work benefits were very good. Having thought about what Mr I has said 
about his sick pay, I dont  think this means he wouldnt  have found  the policies useful. I say 
this because the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr I would have 
received from his employer and would have paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also 
would have paid a benefit if Mr I was ever made  redundant. So overall, I think Mr I could 
have found the policies  useful if he ever fell on hard times and I dont think that any better  
information would have put him off from taking  out the policies.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr I. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI on Mr Is Visa credit card because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr I about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr I, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Because Mr Is Mastercard account was closed before  6 April 2008, the rules relating to 
commission dont apply  to the PPI on this card. So Barclays  doesnt  need to refund any of 
the commission Mr I paid on the PPI sold with his Mastercard account.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr I.
But Barclays  does have  to pay back to Mr I any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium on Mr Is Visa credit  card.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5932188