K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) delayed two Faster Payments for 
around two weeks and blocked  access to his current account. 
Background
On 6 December  2018 Mr M sent a Faster Payment  of £2,040 to pay his credit card. On 
7 December 2018 Mr M sent another Faster Payment, this time for £1,443. YBS went  on to 
place a hold on the two Faster Payments and block Mr Ms access to his account. 
On 11 December 2018 and 12 December 2018  Mr M contacted YBS over the phone  and in 
branch. YBS explained  that the payments had been held and his account  access  suspended 
but didnt say when the situation would be resolved. 
YBS released the Faster Payments  and reinstated Mr Ms account access on 
21 December 2018. YBS responded to Mr Ks complaint  on 21 December 2018  and paid 
Mr M £100 to apologise for how the situation  was handled. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service  and it was passed to an investigator.  The 
investigator thought  YBS  offer was fair and didnt ask it to increase the settlement. Mr M 
didnt accept the investigators view so his complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upset Mr M was at what happened. Mr M wanted to send money  to his credit 
card and has pointed  out the account restrictions occurred in the run up to Christmas which  
was particularly distressing. Mr M has told us how the situation  affected his plans over the 
holiday period.  I can understand why Mr M is upset. But I have to take the account terms 
and YBS obligation to protect  its customers money  into consideration when making my 
decision. 
I wont quote the specific account  terms as I can see the investigator  has done that already. 
But YBS current account terms allow it to suspend payments and block  account access  if it 
has genuine concerns about  how the account has been used. 
I accept that there was nothing untoward  in relation  to Mr Ms account and that the Faster  
Payments he made  were instructed by him. But the information from YBS shows  it had 
genuine concerns that the transfers werent genuine. In those circumstances, YBS  account  
terms and conditions allow it to suspend payments and account access. I havent found that 
YBS made an error by blocking  Mr Ms Faster  Payments or account access. 
YBS accepts  that the service  it provided  could have  been  better. Ive looked at the timeline 
for YBS investigation to see if there were any unnecessary delays.  The Faster Payments 
were held for further checks  on 6 December 2018  and 7 December 2018. YBS says there 
was a slight delay  in starting its investigation which began on 11 December 2018. But there  
was a weekend  in between the dates in question so the delay was around one or two 
working days. 
Ref: DRN54590022I cant talk about  what  steps YBS takes  to investigate accounts  or transactions  as 
information of that nature  is commercially sensitive.  But Ive looked at the timeline of YBS 
investigation and havent found any other  unreasonable delays. So whilst  I accept there was 
a reasonably short delay in beginning the investigation, it was for one or two days. 
I know Mr M is upset  that the situation  occurred in the run up to Christmas. But businesses 
are required  to protect accounts  at all times.  And, as Ive said above,  the terms of Mr Ms 
current account allow YBS to hold payments and suspend account  access  so it can 
investigate. I appreciate  Mr Ms transactions were entirely genuine, but that doesnt  mean  
YBS didnt have  reasonable  concerns or that it was wrong to investigate them.
As there was a short  delay I agree its fair for YBS to compensate Mr M. YBS paid Mr M 
£100 and apologised. Ive carefully  considered everything Mr M has told us about the impact 
of the issues raised when  reaching my decision.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I think  £100 
is fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied  with the way YBS has dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint and I think its paid a settlement  that is fair and reasonable Im not telling it to take 
any further action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Yorkshire  Building  Society  has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5459002