K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about how Barclays Bank  UK PLC (the bank)  has dealt with his 
requests for information made via a data subject  access request. 
He says the banks continuing failure to provide  him and others with any, or any accurate, 
information is assisting  the banks attempts  to bully and intimidate  him regarding a loan for 
which Mr H says hes not responsible. 
background
The bank is seeking to hold Mr H responsible for a loan that Mr H says he has nothing  to do 
with. He brought a complaint to the ombudsman service  about  the banks actions. We didnt 
uphold the complaint, which has been  closed following  an ombudsmans final decision.
Since then,  Mr H has complained that the bank  hasnt  adequately complied with his requests 
for information via a data subject access request. Hes also complained about the banks 
disclosure of information about him and the loan to a third party  debt collection company, 
and about that companys own actions towards him. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said we wouldnt be re-opening the first 
complaint. Regarding the banks alleged failings  over the supply of information, he said the 
most suitable body  to investigate Mr Hs concerns  was the Information Commissioners  
Office (ICO). 
The investigator noted deficiencies in how the bank had handled Mr Hs complaint, in 
particular regarding the banks final response  or the lack of one. But he (the investigator) 
didnt think those deficiencies had caused Mr H any harm, so he didnt award any 
compensation. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He was unhappy  that the ombudsman 
service was apparently  facilitating the banks  campaign of lies and intimidation against him. 
He thought the ombudsman service should investigate his concerns even if there  was 
another body  (the ICO) that was also able to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I havent 
upheld his complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as those  of the investigator.  
I understand Mr H has complained separately about the actions of the debt collection 
company.
I note the ombudsman service has already informed Mr H we wont  be re-opening his first 
complaint, about  the loan. I note too that Mr H also complained on this later occasion  about 
how the banks  actions were affecting  his credit rating. But that issue is a consequence of 
the loan, and so its not something we can look into. If we did so, wed be re-opening the first 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN54122372I too think no compensation  is due regarding how the bank dealt with Mr Hs present 
complaint. Although the bank should  have given a final response, there  was on the facts no 
prejudice caused to Mr H by this failing. 
The ombudsman service  can choose, and normally does choose,  not to investigate a 
complaint when theres another body or organisation thats better suited to investigating it. 
That is so in this case. The ICO is better suited to investigating Mr Hs concerns about  how 
the bank responded to his data subject access request and handled  his data. 
As I understand it, Mr H has started legal proceedings against the bank in respect of the 
loan. And in those  proceedings hes raised his claim that the bank hasnt provided him with 
information it has a legal  duty to disclose. Its also the case  that in legal proceedings the 
parties owe a duty to the court to disclose  all relevant  information.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5412237