K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains Zenith Insurance  plc (trading as Markerstudy)  took too long to tow his car 
following an accident  and didnt then provide him a courtesy car it had promised.
background
Mr O has a motor  insurance policy with Markerstudy.
Mr O was involved in an accident and needed his car to be towed. He reported the accident 
to the police and Markerstudy.  He says he was told hed have to wait one hour before his car 
would be towed, but that he had to wait several  hours. He says he was also told hed be 
given a courtesy car but he didnt then get one. He complained to Markerstudy.
Markerstudy investigated Mr Os complaint and agreed that it hadnt handled Mr Os claim as 
well as it should have  done. So it offered Mr O £75 in compensation. Mr O complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Os complaint. She thought  that Mr O had waited 
around three  hours before  his car was towed, and didnt think  it took an unreasonable  
amount of time for his car to be recovered.  She also didnt  think  Mr O was entitled to a 
courtesy car under the terms  of his policy. In the circumstances, she thought that the 
compensation that Markerstudy had offered was fair and reasonable. Mr O disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So thats what Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr O rang Markerstudy at just after 3pm to 
report his accident  and that he was home  shortly  before 6pm.  I accept that he was told hed 
be contacted within an hour, but I agree with our investigator that this didnt mean  his vehicle 
would be towed within an hour. I dont, therefore, think  that he had to wait an unreasonable 
amount of time, although  I do accept it was a frustrating experience. I also accept that he 
was told hed be given  a courtesy  car. However, having looked  at Mr Os policy, and in 
particular the endorsements on it, Im satisfied that Mr O wasnt entitled  to a courtesy car on 
this occasion.  Thats because his car was declared a total loss.
Ref: DRN56924492Given the above, I dont think the offer that Markerstudy has made was unreasonable. So 
Im not going  to tell Markerstudy  to pay more than that. Its up to Mr O to decide whether or 
not he wants to accept the £75 offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer Zenith Insurance plc has made to pay Mr O £75 is a fair 
and reasonable one. If Mr O accepts  my decision,  Zenith Insurance plc needs to pay Mr O 
£75 in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5692449