K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Motability Operations Limited  (MOL)  refused to allow  his brother as the 
nominated driver when  he applied to lease a vehicle under the Motability Scheme. He says 
hes got no other friends he could use. He wants it to reconsider and grant his application.
background
Mr W tells us that in late 2017 he took a out a hire agreement for a vehicle through  the 
Motability Scheme. He explains that hes had numerous long-term health issues  which  
require regular hospital attendance. He says he nominated his brother, who Ill refer to as 
B, to be his named  driver as he (Mr W) doesnt  have a driving  licence. Mr W advised  us 
that he and B then had a dispute  as B, on occasions, used the vehicle without  permission. 
And as a result the vehicle was not always available when Mr W required it. He says he 
reported the issues to MOL and it was agreed  with them  that the vehicle would be returned  
and the hire agreement cancelled.  However,  he said he later reconciled  with B and asked 
MOL to continue with the agreement. He said this request was refused and the vehicle was 
taken back in April 2018. Mr W tells us that he made a new application, nominating  B as his 
driver but the application  was refused. Mr W says he has no other alternative drivers 
available as he has no relatives, other than B, who live close to him. And as a result of MOL 
declining his application he cant get out of the house very often.
MOL told us that in July 2018 Mr W had visited a local dealer in order to apply to lease a 
vehicle under the Motability scheme. It said he wished to nominate  B as his only and named 
driver. MOL told us the application was refused as a previous agreement  had been 
terminated due to Bs conduct having breached  the terms  of the Motability  scheme. It said 
that if Mr W was able to nominate a driver  - other  than B - his application would be 
considered.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 November  2019.  I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint and would be asking MOL to reconsider Mr Ws application. Since then 
both parties have replied  and I thank them for their responses. Mr W said he agreed with my 
provisional decision and had nothing further to add. MOL said it didnt agree and provided a 
lengthy response with its reasoning. Briefly summarised, it said it felt it wasnt  for this service  
to force  MOL  to accept  Mr Ws application  using his brother  as a named driver.  And that it 
(MOL) was entitled to make decisions at its sole discretion regarding  the vehicles it owns.
Ill comment in more  detail  regarding the points  raised by MOL in my final decision which is 
set out below. But apart from clarifying the limits of the decision I see no reason to change  
my provisional view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this case  are rather sad and I can see that Mr W has been  caused 
considerable distress  both in terms of the family  rift and the practical difficulties this led to 
after the vehicle  was returned.
Ref: DRN55654672In determining what I think is a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint Im not 
required to decide  that one party or the other is at fault. There  are some  situations where 
problems arise which are beyond the control of either party. I think  this is the case  here.  
Most of the basic facts  in this case arent in dispute.  And in reality the only issue  which  
appears to stand between Mr W being  able to obtain another  vehicle under the Motability 
Scheme is his wish to again nominate  B as his named driver.  In an ideal  world  hed simply 
nominate a different driver  and that would resolve the issue.  But Mr W doesnt seem  to be in 
a position to exercise such a choice. He says there  are no other  persons  he can turn to and 
that he has no relatives - other than B - who live near enough to assist.
I can see why MOL  felt that B wasnt suitable  and its entirely  understandable that its 
reluctant to take a risk that the same  situation  will reoccur.  Im therefore faced with having to 
determine a dispute between two parties  whose stated - but conflicting - positions are both 
reasonable.
On balance I think MOL should  reconsider  Mr Ws application as it stands and using B as his 
nominated driver. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Mr W acquired the vehicle in November 2017.  The original term of the agreement  was for 
about three years - there were 39 four weekly instalments due. He first notified MOL of 
problems on 6 April 2018. And it appears from the notes of the contact that a decision was 
taken immediately to end the agreement  and for MOL to take back  the vehicle.
Its clear Mr W had second  thoughts  as the next day he rang MOL and said hed resolved 
matters with B and wanted to retain the vehicle with B as his named driver.  The request was 
repeated again  a few days later. MOL  declined this request and the vehicle was collected 
from Mr W on 26 April.  
I think it was unfortunate  that the decision to terminate  the agreement  was taken so hastily.  
I can see that MOL was anxious to protect  the integrity of the scheme. And it was confronted  
with a situation in which it appeared Mr W might be vulnerable to financial abuse in that he 
was effectively using  a disability benefit  to pay for a vehicle from which he derived little or no 
benefit. Nonetheless I think little further  wouldve been lost if a period of reflection had been 
allowed.
Although the termination of the agreement and the return of the vehicle arent the subject 
matter of this complaint,  they led directly to the circumstances which  gave rise to it. Mr W 
subsequently tried to take out a new agreement on 2 July 2018 again nominating B as his 
driver. This application was refused  and that refusal subsequently led to this complaint.
Mr W has said he understands why MOL  refused the application. But he feels that he should 
be given another  chance. Hes explained that the reason he thinks  B behaved as he did was 
that he (B) was visiting a relative in a nursing home. That relative has apparently since  died. 
He feels B was in a distressed state at the time and didnt realise the full implications of his 
actions. He doesnt think that there will be any reoccurrence and has explained that B now 
has the use of another vehicle. If so, and Mr W is able to provide information  to MOL which 
supports this, it may be helpful  to his application.
Its not uncommon for disputes within a family to arise and they can often lead to feelings  
running high and decisions being  made without due consideration for the consequences.
Ref: DRN55654673Its also the case that once emotions are brought  under control and tempers cool a more  
objective and balanced view is often taken.
And its noteworthy that it was Mr W himself who brought this issue to the attention  of MOL. 
Had he not reported this, its unlikely MOL wouldve been aware of the problem. So I think  
when Mr W says hes reconciled  with B that considerable  weight  should  be attached to this. 
And if, as seems to be the case,  B has access to another vehicle, that should  reduce the risk 
of any misuse of any vehicle which Mr W acquires.
In its response to my provisional decision MOL suggested that the effect of my decision was 
to force  it to grant Mr Ws application and allow his brother to be his nominated driver. I wish 
to emphasise that my provisional decision did not say this nor should that meaning be 
implied. The provisional decision - which Ill repeat in my final decision later - required MOL 
to do no more - but no less - than reconsider Mr Ws application. Im sure that MOL will 
ensure the process is conducted  fairly and without pre-judging any issues.
MOL confirmed that Mr Ws account  was presently  suspended. Apparently this means  that 
any application would have to be considered by MOLs Scheme Protection Team.  It points 
out that Mr Ws application was considered twice in early  July 2018 and again later in that 
month. It confirmed that Mr W would have to satisfy MOL that the risk posed  by his 
nominated driver - in using the vehicle for his own purposes as opposed to those of Mr W -
no longer exists. It said that at the time of writing  Mr W hadnt  been able to do so.
I want to make clear that its not part of my role to instruct MOL what criteria it should apply 
when considering applications.  And its clearly necessary  that suitable risk assessments are 
carried out when  valuable assets  are being hired  out. Id only comment  that its impossible to 
eliminate all future risks - of any sort. Whilst its fair to take past behaviour into account - its 
not reasonable to assume that previous mistakes will inevitably be repeated. 
Id think it helpful  if - before reconsidering Mr Ws application - MOL would advise Mr W 
specifically what information  it required from him to satisfy it that his brother posed either no 
risk or - more  realistically - no greater risk than that which would be normally  acceptable. 
And Id like to think that MOL when reconsidering  the suitability of Mr Ws brother as 
nominated driver would accept that behaviour can change and individuals can learn  from 
previous mistakes.
Its clear Mr W has suffered considerable inconvenience and distress  through  not having 
access to a vehicle  he can use. He acted  responsibly in reporting the problem - although I 
accept he was also motivated by other  considerations.  And it seems unfortunate that hes 
ended up being  penalised for a situation over which hed little control.
In summary,  its now around  18 months  since Mr W lost the use of the vehicle. Hes recently 
told us that his condition has deteriorated  and hes hardly able to go out. Which  means  his 
need for a vehicle  is even greater now than previously. Clearly the passage of time means 
MOL may reasonably require Mr W to provide it with updated information about his 
circumstances. Assuming,  as seems likely, Mr Ws eligibility is confirmed  Id then expect 
MOL to exercise its discretion fairly. Im not requiring MOL to grant  Mr Ws application  
irrespective of any the concerns its expressed. But I do require it to give fresh  and objective  
reconsideration to all the circumstances including whether or not to accept Mr Ws brother as 
a nominated driver.
Ref: DRN55654674my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Motability Operations Limited to reconsider Mr Ws application, using his brother as 
nominated driver, for a Motability vehicle to be supplied under  the Motability Scheme.
Alternatively, it should consider a new application,  on the same basis,  if it feels the present 
application requires  updating.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5565467