K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  a monthly premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L were  sold a MPPI policy in 1997 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Ls names, the PPI policy  only covered Mr L. 
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr L was off 
work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr L was eligible under the policy.  Based on Mr Ls age 
and employment  (amongst other  things)  at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr L that the PPI was optional  and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr and Mrs Ls account.  Mr and Mrs L say they dont  recall  getting any 
information about PPI.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and   
Mrs L have told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened during the sale.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. Within this document there is a section  for 
MPPI. This presented Mr and Mrs L with an option  to take MPPI. In order  to request MPPI at 
this stage, the section  would  have  had to be signed.  I note that Mr L has signed the section 
specifically requesting MPPI. Mr L also completed  a separate  MPPI application form.
So all in all, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L were made aware  that the MPPI was 
optional and that it was applied to the account because  Mr L chose  to take it out.
BoS accept they advised  Mr and Mrs L to take MPPI. This means  they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont  know  if BoS took all the steps they should have to check  if the MPPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs L but I do think the policy  was suitable for them. I say this because:
-The MPPI  would have paid out in addition to Mr Ls employee sick pay and for a much 
longer period  of time. It would also have paid out if Mr L lost his job. I appreciate  Mr and 
Mrs L say their parents  could have helped, however,  this couldnt  be guaranteed  as 
circumstances change  and ultimately  the mortgage repayments were  Mr and Mrs Ls 
responsibility alone.
Ref: DRN55647052-Mr L doesnt  appear to have been  affected  by the terms in the policy  which would have 
made it difficult  for him to make a successful claim under the policy.
-The cost of the MPPI  was set out clearly in the MPPI application  form and I havent  seen  
any evidence  which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs L.
-Mr and Mrs L could  have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if 
they no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI   in particular about the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs L wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs L this 
MPPI policy.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about  commission.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
BoS  have given me information that shows  Mr  and Mrs Ls mortgage was taken out in 1997  
and ended in 2005. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So BoS dont  need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI they had 
with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN55647053my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5564705