K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned  down his pet insurance claim. He also 
complains about  its service.
My references to Allianz include its agent.  
background
In January 2018 Mr S took out a lifetime  pet insurance with Allianz to cover his young dog. 
When doing so he told Allianz that his dog had had a leg strain injury. Allianz told him it 
wouldnt cover  leg/hip/shoulder  disorders  and put on a policy  exclusion to confirm this. 
Mr S asked Allianz to review the exclusion. It agreed  and looked at his vets clinical  notes. 
But this review didnt  result in Allianz  removing the exclusion. It noted  that the dog had been 
limping in December 2017.  Allianz also added another exclusion for the dogs right hind stifle 
(knee joint), because of the earlier injury noted  in her records.  
In late January 2018 Mr Ss dog began limping again on her left front leg so he took her to 
the vet. In April 2018 Mr S made  claims for treatment his dog had received from the end of 
January 2018  to investigate the limping.  This led to his vet diagnosing his dog with a 
condition called osteochondritis  dissecans  (OCD), where the cartilage or bone in a joint is 
inflamed. The investigation and treatment  included x-rays (radiographs), shoulder surgery  
(arthrotomy) and then regular injections to help her recuperate. 
Allianz turned down  the claims because they fell under the leg/hip/shoulder disorder 
exclusion. It did, however,  remove the stifle exclusion. Mr S complained  to Allianz  and his 
vet sent a supporting letter. But Allianz wouldnt change its decision about  the claim.  It later 
agreed to narrow the exclusions on the policy based on the dogs diagnosis  and treatment. 
Mr S came to us about the claim decision. He also said Allianz  service  to him had been 
poor. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Having done so, she thought Allianz  had made a 
fair claim  decision  and didnt uphold his service  complaint. Mr S strongly disagreed  and 
wrote in to us with a timeline and an explanation of why he thought  Allianz had treated him 
unfairly. The complaints  now come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about Mr Ss detailed  timeline together with all the evidence. But 
having done so I think Allianz made  a fair decision in placing exclusions on the policy and in 
turning down his claims. I think it explained its decisions to him fairly  as well. I will explain my 
reasons and in doing so Ill focus  on what  I consider  are the central issues.
First, I think Allianz  fairly placed  exclusions on the policy for leg/hip/shoulder  disorders. I do 
understand that Mr Ss dog hadnt  been diagnosed with a condition before he took out the 
policy. But Allianz  can still fairly put an exclusion  on the policy from its start date because the 
information that Mr S gave it showed the dog had shown clinical  signs of illness  and injury.  
Ref: DRN53619762Mr S thinks  that Allianz misinterpreted his vets entry  in the dogs clinical  history from 
21 December 2017. He points out that the vet said the dog had had possible panosteitis  
and not an actual diagnosis. Panosteitis is inflammation of the leg and as Mr S says it is 
often described by vets as growing pains. 
But I think the key point here is that Allianz is entitled to decide the risks that it is prepared  to 
cover when offering  the policy. Mr Ss dog had experienced a limp in the left front leg in 
December 2017.  His vet suspected panosteitis but couldnt be sure about  that. And the dog 
had also had an earlier injury affecting a different leg. So Allianzs underwriters decided they 
didnt want to take on the risk of Mr Ss dog having problems affecting her leg, hip and 
shoulders until she was three months clear of any clinical  signs of illness  or injury;  for 
example, until shed been three months clear of signs  of limping.  
Unfortunately, Mr Ss dog didnt go three  months clear of limping. She began  limping  again  
at the end of January 2018,  just a couple  of weeks after he took out the policy.  
Ive read Mr Ss vets comments about that and why she thinks  the exclusion was unfair 
given shed suspected panosteitis and not OCD in December 2017. Allianzs vet thinks its 
more likely than not that the dog had OCD in December 2017, because the OCD lesions 
wont have developed so quickly as to show signs in January 2018 and not in December 
2017. Also,  Allianzs vet says that the anti-inflammatory  medication the dog received in 
December 2017,  and then again in early January 2018 following her spay procedure  might 
have meant  the symptoms didnt start again until that medication  ended.  
But either way I think  Allianz was entitled  to decide it didnt want to cover the dog for 
disorders affecting  her leg, hip and shoulder  until it became clear  whether the earlier limping 
was likely to continue or not. If shed not shown  any more  signs  or symptoms  of limping for a 
three month period Allianz said it would review the exclusion. But she did start limping  again.
I appreciate Mr S has offered to have  his dog inspected by an independent  vet. But Allianz is 
entitled to base its risk decision  on the vets notes and Ive explained why I think  its decision 
was fair. It didnt have  to arrange for an independent  vet examination.  
As I think  Allianz fairly  put the leg/hip/shoulder disorder exclusion  on the policy  it follows  that 
I think it was entitled  to turn down Mr Ss claims for the investigation  and treatment of the 
shoulder issue, diagnosed by his vet as OCD. 
Mr S says that Allianz  should have reviewed  the exclusion at the outset  and before dealing  
with the claim. He says hed have cancelled the policy in March 2018  if hed known the 
outcome then. 
But I think Allianz did review the exclusion at the outset as it agreed to do. His vet sent 
Allianz the dogs  clinical  records. Allianzs records show that it reviewed the decision  
reasonably quickly  and sent Mr S its decision on 7 February 2018. It said that it would put on 
the right stifle exclusion (reviewable after 6 months clear) and the leg/hip/shoulder  disorder 
would remain due to the panosteitis (reviewable after 3 months clear).
Mr S contacted Allianz on 7 February  2018 to say he was disappointed about this because 
his vet had said the dogs  earlier injury  wouldnt prejudice the insurance. Allianz correctly told 
him by email on 20 February  2018 that it had received only the clinical history  from the vet. 
Allianz explained again about the review  period and that it would need the up to date clinical 
Ref: DRN53619763history to review the exclusions in the future. So I think it did tell him its decision before it 
received the claim  in April 2018.  It turned down the claims  towards the end of April 2018.
It wasnt until 10 May 2018 that Mr Ss vet sent Allianz a letter  asking it to review  the claim 
decision and saying  why she thought  the exclusion wasnt  fair. Allianz did review the letter 
but explained why it wouldnt remove the exclusion.  This was in early  June 2018. 
Mr S made a complaint about the claim and exclusions in June. Allianz responded within  the 
time allowed by its regulator, sending holding  letters  followed  by its final response letter to 
Mr S on 9 August 2018. In that letter Allianz  explained its claim decision, based  on the policy  
exclusion. It said that it had removed the stifle exclusion but the leg/hip/shoulder  disorder 
exclusion would remain and had been  applied correctly. Allianz said it might narrow  down 
the exclusion once  the dog had been  free of clinical signs for 3 months. 
Mr S has explained that he tried to speak to the person who wrote the final response letter, 
without success.  He did say this in his email message  to Allianz of 13 September 2018. The 
person he was trying to reach returned  his message the same day and said sorry for her 
delay in responding having unavoidably been  away  from the office. I can see it had been 
frustrating for Mr S but I think Allianzs apology  was a reasonable response to his concern 
about the delay. 
Allianz explained it had asked Mr Ss vet for the up to date clinical  history. In early October 
2018 Allianz then did narrow down the exclusion to the diagnosed condition of OCD and 
and/or arthritis/DJD (degenerative joint disease). Allianz had already explained  more  than 
once that it wasnt  going to remove the exclusion and I dont think  I can fairly require it to 
refund Mr S any policy premiums. I appreciate  this will come as a disappointment to Mr S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5361976