K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mr Y says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold the PPI to him.
background
Capital One sold Mr Y a PPI policy for his credit  card account.  It would pay part of his 
balance each month if he couldnt work owing to accident  or sickness,  or lost his job.
The account  was closed in 2011  and the policy was cancelled.  But Mr Y feels  the policy had 
been mis-sold back in 2004. Among other things, he says he didnt agree to have it and 
wasnt given good  enough information  about it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. But Mr Y disagrees, so its come to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general  approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ys case.
Having done that, on balance Ive decided the policy wasnt  mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
I think its likely Capital One made it clear to Mr Y that he didnt have to have the PPI, and 
that he chose  to take it out. I can see that when Mr Y applied  for his credit  card,  he indicated 
on his completed form that he didnt  want  PPI. But Capital  Ones records say he agreed  to 
have it over the phone, a couple of weeks later, when  he rang to activate the card which had 
by then been sent to him. I think their records are likely to be right about that.
Theres no note or recording of that phone call available  now, many years later, and equally 
understandably Mr Y doesnt recall it after so long.  So I dont know what was discussed 
about PPI, or why Mr Y appears to have changed his mind. 
But from what Capital One has told us about  its usual sales  process  at that time, its 
representative wouldve  been trained and instructed to offer Mr Y a choice, and only to add 
PPI to his card account if he specifically agreed  to have  it. Ive not seen anything to show  me 
clearly that its normal procedure wasnt followed on this occasion.  So I think it probably was. 
And Mr Y hasnt suggested he was put under any unfair pressure to agree to have PPI.
Ive also seen copies  of statements which wouldve later been sent to Mr Y, showing PPI 
being charged to his account. And as far as I know he didnt query this with Capital One at 
the time,  as I wouldve  expected him to do if hed not agreed to have it. 
Based again on what  Ive been told about its usual  sales process, I think  its unlikely that 
Capital One gave Mr Y personal advice about  whether or not to have the PPI. So it didnt  
have to find out about his particular circumstances and needs, to check if the policy  would be 
right for him. He had to decide that for himself. But Capital One did have  to give Mr Y good 
enough information about the PPI for him to be able to decide whether to have it.
Ref: DRN53163492Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr Y about the cost,  benefits and main 
features of the PPI, before he took it out, wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. Mr Y certainly  
feels it wasnt, and he may well be right. 
But as Ive said, I think he chose  to take out PPI, so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
From what  Ive been told about  his circumstances at the time, I think  he was eligible for the 
PPI. Apart from one issue which I explain below, it doesnt look as if he was affected by any 
of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the policy. So it couldve been  helpful for him if he was 
off work ill or injured,  or lost his job. And I dont think getting  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking it out.
Mr Y has told us he was living with his parents, and had relatively few other expenses, when 
he took out the PPI. He feels he wouldve still been able to meet his card repayments  if he 
wasnt working. Hes also said he wouldve got some sick pay from his job and didnt really  
need PPI. 
Ive carefully considered  what hes said. But the PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months at 
a time  much longer  than the full sick pay he says he wouldve got from his job. It wouldve 
paid out too if hed been made redundant. And hes told us he didnt have any savings he 
couldve used to meet his card repayments if he wasnt earning. 
At first Mr Y told us he didnt have any health  problems  when he took out the PPI. But hes 
recently mentioned  having taken time off work for a back problem two years before the sale.  
The policy he likely took out excluded certain  pre-existing conditions,  and specifically 
excluded backache. And I dont know what, if anything was discussed about this on the 
phone call. 
But from what hes told us, I dont think that by the time he took out the PPI this problem was 
an ongoing concern, for which he was getting any treatment  or medication. And the PPI 
wouldve still covered  Mr Y for any other,  unrelated health issues.  So on balance I dont think 
better awareness of the relevant policy terms wouldve changed  his decision to have PPI. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr Ys card had quite a low initial  credit  limit. But as the cost 
of the PPI depended on what he spent  on the card, if he didnt use the card a lot the PPI 
wouldnt cost him very much. If he did, it could  give him helpful protection.  Ive seen nothing 
to show he couldnt  afford  it. And as he was paying  for the policy monthly, he could cancel it 
at any time without further cost if his situation  changed or he decided  he no longer wanted it.
I realise Mr Y feels strongly  and has put time and effort  into his complaint. Ive thought  
carefully about everything he and his representatives have told us, including that he was 
fairly young when  he took out the policy and didnt fully understand what  he was being sold. 
But in my view, based  on all that Ive read and been told, I dont overall  think  I can fairly  and 
reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y. But 
Capital One should pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y because :
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr Y about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr Y, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN53163493To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offer is fair in this case. Capital One tells us it has already made that repayment to Mr Y.
what Capital  One needs to do
If it hasnt  yet done so, Capital  One has to pay back to Mr Y any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back  to Mr Y 
any extra  interest  he paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr Y the difference 
between what he owes and what he would have  owed  if the commission and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr Y 8%* 
simple interest if Mr Y paid off the credit  card at some point.
*Businesses  have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr Y can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But it does  have to pay back  to Mr Y any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. If, as it has told us, it has already made  that repayment I dont 
award any further compensation and it doesnt need  to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5316349