K821x#15complaint
Mrs Z complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited (British Gas) required multiple visits to 
her property to resolve two claims for a water and gas leak.
background
Mrs Z has a HomeCare  Four policy with British Gas,  which covers her boiler and central 
heating system, as well as plumbing  and electric repairs.
In August  2013,  Mrs Z made  a claim on the policy due to a leak from a waste pipe on the 
outside of the property.  She complains that it took multiple visits to resolve the problem, and 
she believes  the engineers caused damage  to her property. British Gas engineers  visited 
again in July 2014 to fix an internal leak,  which Mrs Z thought  had been caused  by the 
previous engineers.
In November 2018, Mrs Z made a claim due to a gas leak. British Gas engineers attended 
the property twice but werent able to fix the leak during their visits. Mrs Z therefore arranged 
an independent engineer,  who was able to resolve  the problem.
In response to Mrs Zs complaints about  these issues, British Gas offered her £96 to cover  
the costs of the independent engineer. It also offered a total of £154  for the trouble and 
upset caused  to her by its misdiagnosis  of faults  and the delay this caused  in resolving her 
claims - £80 for what had happened in 2013, and £74 for what had happened in 2018.
Mrs Z wasnt happy with British Gas response  and referred her complaint  to us. To resolve 
things, she asked that British Gas refund  all the premiums shes  paid plus interest, and for 
further compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint.  He recommended that British Gas pay a 
further £70 for the trouble and upset caused  by the time taken and the number of visits 
required to resolve  the problem.
Mrs Z accepted our investigators  opinion. British Gas disagreed,  saying that all the visits in 
2013 had been necessary and there had been no unavoidable delays. It thought its offer 
was a fair way to resolve things. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to reach a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
British Gas engineers  failed  to identify and fix the gas leak Mrs Z was experiencing. Its 
accepted that the second engineer it sent out wasnt allocated enough time to fix the 
problem. So I think its fair that it covered her costs  to arrange for an independent engineer  
to resolve the problem.  
British Gas accepts that its engineers misdiagnosed both faults, and this meant the claims 
werent resolved  as quickly  as they could  have been, and more engineer visits were made 
than necessary. That caused Mrs Z the inconvenience of having to wait in for visits  as well 
as the worry caused by the ongoing  problems.  I note Mrs Z has relatives in poor health living 
with her and was worried about the impact on them of interruptions  to her utilities.
Ref: DRN53652422Mrs Z was understandably  frustrated  by what happened when she claimed  in 
November 2018.  This magnified her unhappiness  about what  had happened with the 
previous claims.
Ive thought carefully about the information Mrs Z has supplied about  the damage  she 
believes was caused by British Gas engineers in 2013. On balance,  I dont have enough  
evidence to reasonably conclude that this damage was caused  by the engineers,  rather than 
by the leak itself. Ive looked carefully  at the pictures shes supplied. But its hard to see any 
evidence of damage. And, given the passage of time,  I dont think  I can fairly  say that its 
more likely than not that what damage  there  is was caused by British  Gas five years  ago. So 
I cant fairly ask British Gas to compensate  her for this.
I also dont think its fair for me to ask British Gas to refund  Mrs Z the premiums shes  paid. 
I say this because  shes had a benefit from the policy   shes  made successful claims, and 
has had peace  of mind  from knowing she has cover should something go wrong.
Ive carefully considered  what I think is a fair way for British Gas to apologise for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mrs Z by the misdiagnosis and delays. Overall, I agree that the award 
made by our investigator is a fair way to resolve  things.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Z:
£96 to cover the costs  of the independent  engineer; and
£70 in addition  to the £154 its already offered her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 23 November 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5365242