K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that CIS General Insurance Limited rejected their buildings  
insurance claim.
background
At the end of February  2018, Mr and Mrs Hs home was found  to be suffering  from water 
ingress. They started an insurance  claim,  but CIS eventually rejected it on the basis  that 
there was no insured  event. The water entering  the property was, in CIS view,  due to failed 
tanking and not as a result of a leaking pipe or flood.
The damage was quite substantial, and Mr and Mrs H have since repaired the damage 
which includes new kitchen units,  appliances  and tiling. The builder they engaged gave an 
estimate of £13,400 albeit  they spent far more than this in the end. This price  included damp 
proof work and diverting  water.
One of our investigators  investigated the complaint  and was of the view that CIS should deal 
with the claim as a flood rather than due to failure of the tanking. He asked CIS to consider 
paying a cash  settlement,  interest as the works and been paid for and £300  for the trouble  
and upset caused.
CIS agreed  to pay a lump sum and came back with an offer which was less than the 
estimate of £13,400 Mr and Mrs H had obtained.  CIS view was that some works  were 
related to an upgrade in condition and not part of the original  kitchen that was damaged. 
While Mr and Mrs H accepted there were some upgrades, they didnt think  CIS offer was 
fair.
The investigator considered the following;
Kitchen tiles
oMeasurements for the kitchen show a total cost of £571.37 for materials and 
fittings. The investigator thought this was fair as the invoice Mr and Mrs H 
produced was for porcelain tiles as opposed to the cheaper ceramic tiles they 
originally had.
Kitchen worktops
oMr and Mrs H had a significantly higher specification fitted than was originally 
fitted. The investigator thought £361.66 was a fair amount based on the 
original like-for-like schedule of works.
Kitchen Outlet  invoice
oThe replacement kitchen was a significant upgrade  on what was originally 
installed. CIS offer here was based  on the costs paid for units  and doors as 
per the original schedule  of works  and totalled £1,360.16, which the 
investigator thought  was fair.
Builders invoice
oCIS didnt think it should have  to pay for renewing the tanking (damp proof) 
but the investigator disagreed. He said it hadnt  been shown that the tanking 
had failed due to lack of maintenance or through wear and tear. There were 
other factors in play such as a leaking water board main pipe and a stream.  
The investigator thought these could  well have  contributed to the tanking 
failure. The builders  cost was £4,600 and as CIS hadnt dealt with the claim 
and Mr and Mrs H had paid this, he said it was the fair amount  CIS should 
reimburse.
Ref: DRN55146032oThe builder charged £4,800 to remove the damaged  kitchen and re-fit the 
new units. The original  schedule  of works submitted to CIS had £1,731.55 as 
the relevant cost.  CIS agreed to pay 50% of the difference with builders costs 
and so offered  £3,265.78 plus £55 for additional items. The investigator 
thought this was fair.
In total the investigator thought a fair settlement  was £10,213.91  together  with 
interest from the date of the claim and £300  compensation.
CIS disagreed with the investigator in so far as it didnt think  it should be paying for the 
tanking but did agree to pay £5,613.91 together with interest and compensation. Mr and 
Mrs H agreed  to accept what the investigator  had recommended to bring the matter to 
resolution.
As the parties couldnt  agree the matter has been passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  for me to decide concerns the tanking costs  as thats the last part in dispute and 
preventing a resolution. For the avoidance  of doubt,  having considered  the amount CIS has 
agreed to offer including  the interest and compensation, and the reasons  why, I am satisfied 
it is a fair offer in all the circumstances. 
The reason  why CIS doesnt think it should pay the tanking costs is because  it says failure 
was due to wear and tear. Mr and Mrs Hs case is that this isnt correct. Theyve said theres 
been no sign of water ingress  to their home until this incident. The specialists report about 
the leak and why it was able to enter  the property simply  says Groundwater / rainwater is 
leaking through the tanking in the corner of the kitchen. This would indicate that the tanking 
is not doing its job.
Theres insufficient evidence to show that this was a regular occurrence or indeed  a 
longstanding problem.  Mr and Mrs H say this was the first time water  had entered  their 
home. The entry point  was the kitchen,  which they say was an extension  to the main home 
with relevant building control  approval at the time. Why the tanking failed is not known but 
there were at least two factors impinging which were the underground stream and the 
rainwater run-off.  So, sheer volume  and persistency of water presence may well have 
overcome the tanking system. Like the investigator  Im not persuaded that CIS has shown 
the policy exclusion for wear and tear applies.  Im satisfied the fair remedy is that CIS pays 
the tanking related costs.
As Mr and Mrs H paid for the repair work  to be done, they have been out of pocket and 
deprived the use of that money  from the point they paid it. So, its fair they receive interest  
and, as CIS knows and has agreed, the rate we usually require is 8% simple per year. That 
should run from the date of Mr and Mrs H being without those funds, rather  than the date of 
claim. Mr and Mrs H have  provided  details of their expenditure in relation to the repairs  and 
renovation. Between 27 April and 10 May theyd  spent almost £10,500 which is just above 
the amount the investigator thought was a fair amount  and which Mr and Mrs H agreed to 
accept. The majority was paid by 9 May and so in the circumstances of this case, thats the 
date I think is fair to base  all interest  calculations on. 
Ref: DRN55146033The compensation amount of £300 is not something that accrues interest  at this point, but I 
am satisfied  it reflects the inconvenience experienced.  Had CIS agreed  to cover the claim in 
the first place it would  not have upgraded the kitchen  as Mr and Mrs H did. So, they would 
inevitably have had to make various arrangements  themselves to achieve  the specification  
they wanted. But they would have had the assuredness that they werent  covering  
everything personally and been  able to progress things quicker.  Consequently,  this would 
have reduced the time spent with a defective kitchen, damaged  by an event it would have 
been fair for CIS to have agreed  to cover initially.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require CIS General Insurance  Limited to do the following;
Pay Mr and Mrs H £10,213.91
oCIS must  add interest at 8% simple per year from 9 May 2018 until the date it 
issues payment.
oHM Revenue & Customs  requires CIS General Insurance Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. CIS must  give Mr and/or Mrs H a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation.
oCIS must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at 8% per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5514603