K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has refused to reimburse a 
removal fee following  a house purchase that fell through.
background
Mr M was in the process of buying  a house which he says fell through due to NatWest  
recording incorrect information on his credit file. He says NatWest  apologised  and paid him 
£100 compensation. It also repaid  both his mortgage and surveyor  fees but he says it 
refused to pay his removal fees and made him jump through  so many  hoops about this 
matter. Mr M says he provided evidence from the removal  company that it wouldnt refund 
his fees but NatWest unfairly insisted on him giving it permission to speak to the removal 
company directly. He says he refused as its a matter of trust and wants  an apology  and the 
£885 removal fee repaid.
NatWest says it called the removal company as their terms and conditions suggested Mr M 
may have  been  entitled to a refund but the company wouldnt discuss  the case with it. It says 
it wanted to speak to the company before  making  a decision on the repayment of the fees. 
NatWest says it wasnt its intention to question Mr Ms truthfulness  or to offend him but as 
Mr M hadnt received  a mortgage offer then it also wanted to understand why a removal 
company had been booked.
Mr M says he had to complete the property purchase  by a certain date and demonstrate  to 
the sellers that he had taken certain steps  including booking a removal company.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. She thought NatWest 
had acted fairly and that Mr M had booked the removal  company for a date before a 
mortgage application had been accepted  and before  solicitors had advised on an exchange 
date. The investigator  didnt think there  was evidence  that Mr M couldve moved  in on the 
date the removal  company  was booked for. She thought Mr M had taken a risk by booking  
the company and hadnt seen any evidence from it that the date couldve been changed. 
She also thought  that it wasnt reasonable for NatWest  to repay that money as the removal  
company had been booked for a date before contracts had been exchanged.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the mortgage didnt proceed due to NatWests 
mistake and it is responsible for the wasted removal companys costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that NatWest hasnt  acted unfairly  here by asking to speak to the removal company 
before making  a decision on paying its fees.  I realise  Mr M will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
I think there are two main  aspects to this complaint. Firstly if NatWest acted reasonably  by 
asking for Mr Ms permission to speak  to the removal company before deciding  if it should be 
responsible for its fee. And secondly  if Mr M should be responsible  for the fee in any event 
as he took a risk in booking the company before the mortgage offer was in place and before 
an exchange of contracts  had taken place.
Ref: DRN54267292There is no question here that NatWest  has accepted making a mistake  and I can see that 
its refunded Mr Ms mortgage  fee and surveyors fee. Ive looked at the e-mail exchange 
between Mr M and NatWest about  the removal companys fee. And Im satisfied that at no 
stage has NatWest said that it wouldnt pay it but that it wanted to speak to the company to 
clarify certain matters  and to discuss the terms and conditions before making a decision.
I appreciate that Mr M says hes provided a copy  of the invoice and a letter confirming  that 
he wasnt entitled to a refund. But I can also see that NatWest has explained that the 
companys terms and conditions suggest  Mr M wouldve been entitled  to a refund and that it 
wanted clarification  on this. So I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably by asking Mr M 
for permission to speak  to the removal company and asking for written approval.  I dont  
accept that by doing so NatWest was making Mr M jump through  so many  hoops. But I 
think it was carrying out reasonable enquiries  before deciding  if it should repay the fee. I 
dont accept that by doing  so NatWest was questioning Mr Ms honesty or his truthfulness.
So I dont  think NatWest  has acted  unfairly  or made  a mistake by making its request to 
speak to the removal company. I also think that it was entitled to check if Mr M was able to 
request a refund from the company or check what its policy  was on rearranging the removal.
I think that the sequence of events is unusual in this case for the purchase of a property.  I 
appreciate Mr M says that the seller  required  him to complete by a certain  date and 
expected certain  steps such as the booking of a removal company to be in place. But I think  
such a step is unusual as there wasnt a mortgage  offer in place and a date hadnt been  set 
for the exchange  of contracts. I can also see that the removal company  had been  booked for 
a date before a survey had taken place.  So Im satisfied there were a number of variable  
factors present here that may have meant  the removal company fees were incurred in any 
event and nothing  to do with NatWest. 
But for the reasons Ive explained  I think Mr Ms complaint is about NatWests decision to 
want to speak to the removal  company before considering paying the invoice. And 
NatWests position  is that it acted  reasonably  by making such a request. So whilst  Ive 
considered the position about the sequence  of events Ive made my decision on the actual 
complaint itself. I accept  that it may have been  the case  that having  spoken to the removal  
company NatWest may have come to the reasonable conclusion that it was booked  too 
soon. And the date of any potential exchange  of contract and completion would have meant 
Mr M being responsible  for the lost fees in any event.
Overall Im satisfied NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably  by asking for Mr Ms 
permission to speak  to the removal company before making a decision on reimbursing  
Mr Ms costs.  So I cant fairly ask it to do anything  further in the circumstances  of this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54267293
Ref: DRN5426729