K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about their poor treatment by Lloyds Bank  PLC when they were  in 
financial difficulties and repaying their overdraft using a debt management plan. 
background
Mr and Mrs S have  made a number  of complaints to us about  their treatment by Lloyds when 
they were in financial difficulties. Each complaint relates to a different banking service or 
product, and here I am considering only their complaint  about  their joint current account.
At the end of 2009 Mr and Mrs S used a debt management organisation to agree a debt 
management plan (dmp) with Lloyds for their current account because  they were in financial 
difficulty. They also had health problems.
In 2015 they complained to Lloyds  about  the excessive fees and charges the bank  had 
continued to add to the account despite  the dmp. Lloyds said the charges had been applied  
in line with their account terms and conditions, and that a recent court  case had found that 
such charges could not be challenged by customers on grounds of fairness  or that they were 
excessive.
But Lloyds accepted that it should have offered Mr and Mrs S more  financial support than it 
had done when it knew they had financial difficulties. It therefore refunded over £1,100 in 
fees and charges incurred between 2010  and 2015;  and paid Mr and Mrs S £75 for the 
inconvenience they had been caused.  The refund put Mr and Mrs S current  account back  
into credit  and the account  was then closed.
Mr and Mrs S replied  saying that they were grateful for Lloyds helpful attitude,  which  they 
said had been  considerably better than the treatment theyd received previously from the 
banks staff. Mr and Mrs S asked the bank to consider reimbursing  charges from the start of 
their dmp (i.e. 2009)  rather than from 2010,  which Lloyds declined to do.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained to the bank about the historic high level of charges it had 
applied to their current  account. Lloyds pointed  out that this was a repeat complaint to which 
it had previously responded  saying it would not be investigating the matter  further.
Mr and Mrs S then complained to us. They asked for interest to be paid on the refunded  
charges. They also complained about the way they had been treated by Lloyds whilst  they 
were in the dmp saying  this had not been consistent with expected  standards set out in the 
Lending Code.
Our investigator noted that part of Mr and Mrs S complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction 
because it referred to events that had taken place  more than six years ago. He therefore 
looked at what  had happened  from October 2012  until the current  account was closed in 
April 2015.
In summary  he said that he thought that Lloyds had done enough by reimbursing fees and 
charges and paying £75 compensation. And that as the charges had been properly applied 
to the account,  which  meant that Lloyds  didnt have to reimburse them, he didnt agree that 
the bank should also have  added  interest  to the reimbursed total.
Mr and Mrs S had also complained that Lloyds hadnt treated them positively and 
sympathetically  as required by the Lending Code  because  they continued to receive debt 
Ref: DRN54253662chasing letters and frequent phone calls about their debt even though they were  making  the 
agreed dmp repayments. Our investigator said that the existence of a dmp didnt  necessarily 
mean that creditors would  no longer contact the debtor, and looking at the detail of the 
contact Lloyds had made  with Mr and Mrs S, he didnt consider  that the bank had behaved 
unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs S were  dissatisfied with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first with the issue of my jurisdiction in this case and whether I can consider 
events from 2009  onwards,  as Mr and Mrs S have requested.
Our investigator quoted the time limit rule determining  complaints we can consider and so I 
shall not repeat that rule here. But in essence  it says that other than under exceptional 
circumstances we can only look at events pre-dating the complaint by less than six years.  
Here that would limit my consideration to events from October 2012 as Mr and Mrs S 
complained in October 2018. 
But Mr and Mrs S have  said they believe there  were exceptional circumstances in their case  
and have cited ill health. Potentially we would view that as a justifiable reason for submitting 
a complaint late, but in coming to that view we would  take account  of whether the 
complainant had been able to continue to deal with their day to day and financial affairs  
during that period. Mr and Mrs S have said that they first complained to Lloyds in April 2010.  
They also say that they continued  to pursue matters until October 2018 when they received 
a final response from the bank. Self-evidently therefore Mr and Mrs S could also have 
complained to us much  sooner than they did.
Mr and Mrs S have  also sought to argue that they thought they needed a final response from 
Lloyds before they could complain to us. Having read the correspondence it seems to me 
that Mr and Mrs S regarded their current account  complaint as largely settled in May 2015 
following Lloyds reimbursement of account  charges. I accept that Mr and Mrs S sent a follow  
up letter  the same  month  including  a last request asking for charges to be refunded from 
2009 rather than from 2010, which the bank rejected by letter  later that month. But I have 
seen no evidence to suggest that this complaint was in any meaningful  sense then ongoing 
from that point, or that Mr and Mrs S were  other  than content to have the whole sorry affair  
wrapped up. Lloyds  final response  to Mr and Mrs S 2018 complaint was not in my judgment 
also a final response  to their 2015  complaint, and so I am not persuaded that they had been 
waiting for it since 2015. 
My decision  therefore is that the circumstances here are not sufficiently compelling for me to 
set aside the six year time limit rule in this case.
I turn now to the substance of Mr and Mrs S complaint, which  is largely related to their 
treatment by Lloyds  when they were  in financial difficulties.
Mr and Mrs S dmp began  in 2009,  and in 2015 they complained to Lloyds that it had 
continued to apply fees and charges  to their current account. Mr and Mrs S considered  this 
Ref: DRN54253663to be unreasonable. Lloyds  agreed  that it should  have done  more to help Mr and Mrs S than 
it had and refunded  the fees for the period  I am considering here and paid Mr and Mrs S £75 
compensation.
Lloyds was not required to do this although I would regard it as good practice when 
customers are in financial difficulty, as Mr and Mrs S were. But given  that the fees had been 
properly applied I wouldnt have expected  Lloyds to have added interest to the refund. 
Mr and Mrs S complaint about  their treatment by the bank mainly concerns what they have  
described as the banks  constant harassment of them by letter and on the phone even 
though they were in an agreed dmp. Once the dmp was in place Lloyds transferred Mr and 
Mrs S debt to its collections department rather than taking the more draconian measure of 
transferring it either to its recoveries department or selling the debt on to a third party.  I 
would regard it as reasonable for the collections department then to contact Mr and Mrs S 
periodically for an update on their circumstances. I understand  that Mr and Mrs S would 
have preferred not to be contacted, but as they owed Lloyds money I am satisfied that the 
bank was entitled to keep  itself up to date with their financial  position.
But that said the nature and frequency of contact  should not be such that it could reasonably  
be regarded as harassment or threatening.
The documents I have seen  about Mr and Mrs S current account include a payment demand 
from solicitors  dated December 2012, a demand  for repayment of all money owed dated 
January 2013  and a letter  from a third party debt collector dated February 2013 threatening 
recovery action if the debt remained unpaid. These three letters  are related and I can see 
from Lloyds file notes  of its interactions  with Mr and Mrs S that Mrs S phoned having 
received them. DMPs are time limited and Mrs S was told that hers had expired. The notes 
record that Lloyds  had already tried frequently to contact Mr and Mrs S by phone  I assume  
to discuss the imminent  dmp expiry- but the calls dont appear to have been answered. And 
where Lloyds left messages, the notes  dont indicate that Mr and Mrs S responded. But I can 
see that once  Mrs S had contacted Lloyds the dmp was renewed and the final demand 
letters stopped.
The notes also reveal other occasions  when Lloyds made many calls to Mr and Mrs S over a 
short period.  But in the main these calls seem to have related to the expiry  of time limits on 
the overdraft or dmp. Generally the calls werent answered and Lloyds often didnt leave 
messages.
I know that Mr and Mrs S believe that they were being unreasonably pursued by Lloyds and 
not being treated positively and sympathetically as set out in the Lending  Code, but Im 
afraid that I do not agree with them. Mr and Mrs S have made the point that other creditors 
treated them  much  more  acceptably than did Lloyds, and I do not doubt that that was their 
experience. But it doesnt therefore  follow that their treatment by Lloyds was unacceptable. 
And having considered the detail  of Lloyds actions once the dmp was in place Im afraid  that 
I cannot reasonably  uphold  Mr and Mrs S complaint about their treatment. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Ref: DRN54253664June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5425366