K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
In December 2016 Mr H was supplied with a brand  new car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
In March 2017 Mr H contacted  the supplying dealer and reported  that the drivers door was 
squeaking.
In October  2017 Mr H contacted the supplying  dealer and reported the front door clicking, a 
creaking noise when turning the car at slow speed  and vibration from the footrest. The 
dealership carried  out repairs. The trim was replaced and the suspension mounts  were  
removed, lubricated  and rebuilt.
In November 2017 Mr H reported a creaking and knocking noise when turning the car at 
slow speed. The dealership carried out repairs. The noise was found to be coming from the 
rear anti roll bar bushes. The anti roll bar was replaced.
In January 2018 Mr H reported a knocking noise coming from the front offside. The 
dealership replaced  the suspension  strut mounting and bearing.
In February 2018  Mr H reported a knocking noise coming  from the left of the car. The 
dealership replaced  the nearside front bearing.
In April 2018 Mr H reported  a knocking  noise  coming from the front of the car. The 
dealership replaced  the steering rack,  carried out a wheel alignment  and adjusted  the front 
tracking.
In November 2018, having continued  to experience issues with the car, Mr H sold the car 
back to the supplying dealer and paid a shortfall of around £800.
Mr H feels that that car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.  He says that he asked to return the car 
to the dealership after the attempts to repair the car failed  but the dealership refused.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said it was likely that the faults  were  present or 
developing at the point of supply. He also said that the durability of the car wasnt 
satisfactory given the number of faults  which required repair  in the first 12 months. The 
investigator concluded that Mr H should  have been able to reject the car.
VWFS didnt  agree. It said that the issues with the car didnt  come  to light within  the first 6 
months of supply. It also said that the issue with the squeaking door (which was reported  in 
the first 6 months) wasnt related to the issue with the suspension. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58108262Because VWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr H and VWFS disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. I need to 
look at all of the available  evidence and determine on the balance  of probabilities whether 
the car was of satisfactory  quality.
Mr H first experienced issues with the car in March 2017 approximately  3 months after the 
point of supply.  The first issue related to a door. I havent been provided with any information 
about the cause of this problem or whether  any repairs were carried  out to resolve  it. I can 
see from the information provided that further issues were reported in October  2017.  One of 
these issues also related to the door.  There then followed repeated issues with knocking and 
creaking noises and repeated attempts at repair.
When it comes  to assessing whether a car is of satisfactory quality I consider a number of 
factors. These include durability and freedom from material defects as well as the age and 
mileage of the car and the price  paid.
Ive taken into account that this is a brand new car. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect issues such as squeaking and clicking of doors and creaking  and knocking  of the 
suspension within the first 12 months. The nature of the repairs  which were attempted  
suggests to me that the car had faults with the suspension. Theres no evidence that these 
issues were caused  by Mr Hs driving style or that they were as a result of excessive 
mileage. I wouldnt  expect a brand new car to need such  significant  repairs to the 
suspension components within the first 12 months.  Because of this, Im not satisfied that the 
car was of satisfactory quality on the grounds of durability.  
Mr H only took the decision to sell the car back to the dealership  because  it refused to allow 
him to return  the car. Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and because the 
attempts to repair the car were unsuccessful Im of the view that Mr H should have been 
allowed to reject the car.
Mr H has had use of the car (or a courtesy car) since  the point of supply. This should  be 
reflected in the outcome.  I think  the fairest way to do this is to treat the monthly payments 
which Mr H has made as covering this. So I wont be asking VWFS  to refund these.
Mr H had to return the car several times for repairs. And although  he was given a courtesy  
car, Mr H has said that this wasnt a high performance car as the one he purchased.  I think  
the number of times Mr H had to return the car for repairs would have caused him a 
significant degree of inconvenience. Ive also taken into account  the disappointment  suffered 
by Mr H in not being  able to enjoy his new car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should:
Ref: DRN58108263Refund any despot paid by Mr H plus 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund any shortfall paid by Mr H when he sold the car back  to the dealership  plus 
8% simple interest  per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay £250 to Mr H for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5810826