K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs T complained because Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited declined a 
home insurance claim for storm.
background
A claim  was made for damaged slates on the roof. It was thought  that theyd come loose 
during some  bad weather. Lloyds sent someone to look at the damage, and they reported  
that the damage was due to the poor condition  of the roof  it had essentially reached the 
end of its natural  life. They  felt the recent bad weather simply highlighted the problem. 
Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that the damage  hadnt  been caused by something 
covered by the policy.
Mr B and Mrs T disagreed  with Lloyds decision.  They said all things age over time which  is 
why theyre insured as that cant be controlled.  They felt the fact the roof was damaged by 
wind and rain meant it should  be covered  by the policy.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think a storm had 
occurred around  the time the damage happened, so he concluded that the damage cant  
have been caused by storm. He also said the policy didnt cover  wear and tear. Mr B and 
Mrs T were disappointed with our investigators opinion. They thought that due to the amount 
paid over the years to insure the house  Lloyds might  pay the claim as a gesture of goodwill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of events that might happen. The 
events are listed in the policy and include storm, flood, fire and theft. In order for a claim to 
be successful the policyholder has to show that the damage theyre claiming  for was caused 
by one of those events. Its important  to note that the validity of a claim isnt dependant on 
the amount thats been paid for the insurance over the years.
The relevant  insured  event in this instance  is storm. Storm is more than bad weather. Its 
defined in the policy as a period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph that 
might be accompanied  by rain, hail or snow.  The rainfall has to be torrential  at least  15mm 
in any 12 hour period.  So for the claim to be covered it has to first be shown that there was 
an identifiable storm around the time of the damage. Because if there wasnt  a storm it cant 
be said that storm (as opposed  to just bad weather)  caused  the damage.
Ive checked the weather records for the weeks before  the damage was noticed. They show 
that there  were high winds   sometimes over the 55 mph threshold  during that time.  So Im 
satisfied there were storm force winds prevalent around the time of the damage.  But for a 
claim to be covered, it also has to be shown  that the storm was the main  cause of the 
damage. And thats different from the damage already being present, possibly through old 
age or wear  and tear, and the storm simply highlighting the problem.
Ref: DRN58475402The report  that Lloyds  got says things  like: 
the property  has the original  slate  pitched  roof
there was evidence of previous repairs in isolated areas front and back  pitch
the property  was the only one in a row of 10 that still had the original roof
recent winds highlighted the poor condition of the roof
the cause  of the problem is the condition of the roof
the roof has reached the end of its natural life
damage had been  caused  by the natural  breakdown  of materials
I havent seen  any other  opinion  as to the cause. So based on the content of the report  
Lloyds got, I think  it was fair for Lloyds to conclude that storm wasnt  the main  cause of the 
damage.
Given their comments  like the roof over time has aged as do all things in life and such  
damage cannot be controlled,  it seems  that Mr B and Mrs T dont dispute  that the roof has 
worn out. As Ive said above, the policy only covers damage caused by certain events. 
Wear and tear, or damage that happens  gradually, arent  one of those events   theyre 
specifically excluded from cover  (theyre actually excluded by all home insurance policies 
that Im aware of). Thats because insurance  is designed to cover the unforeseen. And 
something wearing out isnt unforeseen  as has been said,  everything ages over time.
So to summarise, I conclude that Lloyds acted  fairly  by concluding that the damage was 
mainly caused by wear  and tear rather than storm. As such damage isnt covered  by the 
policy, I conclude that Lloyds acted fairly when it declined the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5847540