K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr A says Canada  Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg at the time, mis-sold  
him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Egg had to make it clear that Mr A didnt  have to take out the PPI and he had to agree  
to take it out.
Egg has given me examples of the pages from the online application it thinks  Mr A would 
have completed,  and they show he would have been asked to choose  if he wanted  the 
policy and select either yes or no options on screen. Egg has said Mr A wouldnt have 
been able to proceed with his application  unless he chose one of these options. I cant be 
sure exactly  what  he saw and filled in, but, based  on what Ive seen and been told and 
without any evidence to the contrary,  I think its more likely than not Mr A would have  seen 
these options  when applying for the credit card and that the PPI was added as a result of 
him selecting yes.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide  for himself if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But as Ive mentioned above,  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr A about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what he has said about not needing  
the policy as he was entitled to sick pay and had savings. But this policy would  have paid in 
addition to any sick pay and it would have enabled  him to protect any savings he may have 
Ref: DRN50159112had for another purpose or use them to cover  other  essential living  expenses. So this doesnt 
change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited  does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Canada Square Operations Limited  does have to pay back to Mr A any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5015911