K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he was given to improve the death benefits of his 
employers occupational pension scheme through a Teachers Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) plan with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). He 
says this has had an impact on the level of pension benefits he expected. He also complains 
that the premiums  required to improve  the death  benefits were extortionately high and 
exceeded the 15-year term he agreed initially.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 June 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In summary,  Mr S applied  for an AVC with Prudential  in 1998. He paid the maximum 
contribution allowed and split the premiums between enhancing  his pension and death  
benefits. The death benefit  that would be payable included both a lump sum payment and an 
increased dependents pension. But, under the terms  of the life cover part of the AVC, there 
was a need to regularly  increase the premium required to maintain the same level of cover.  
This premium increased within certain age bands and meant by 2019 the annual  cost was 
due to rise to £456.96. However,  this also meant  that there  was less money invested to 
increase Mr Ss retirement  benefits.
Mr S queried this situation with Prudential and, although he accepted  that he had agreed  to 
make contributions to increase the death  benefits,  he thought the premiums  were expensive  
and said he hadnt  agreed to pay for longer than a 15-year term. Prudential said Mr S had 
been made aware of all the conditions of the AVCs including the facility to increase 
premiums for additional death benefits with age. It also said Mr S had benefitted from a tax 
efficient method of increasing his death benefits  and could have stopped the cover  at any 
time.
Mr S remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us, where one of our investigators  said 
the cover  had been suitable as Mr S should have been aware, from the documents and 
letters he received about the cover, that it wouldnt stop after 15 years. He also said Mr S 
should have known he could have cancelled the cover at any time. Mr S didnt accept  that 
outcome, so the matter was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision I said that Mr S had been  made aware of the additional death 
benefits from what Id seen within the various brochures and documentation  he would have 
been given. I said it was also clear that the premiums would increase every few years  and 
that theyd continue until Mr S drew  his retirement benefits. I thought the cost of the cover 
had been applied correctly according to the table  within the original brochure.
I thought Prudential was entitled  to change the costs as it thought necessary provided it 
applied them correctly   which I thought  it had.
But I didnt think the AVCs were a suitable recommendation for the lump sum element  of the 
additional benefits. I thought the amount of cover  that was recommended to increase 
protection for Mr Ss family was suitable  but the part that was recommended to cover  his 
outstanding mortgage wasnt. I thought it was more appropriate for Prudential  to have 
recommended a level term life cover  policy for the outstanding mortgage amount over the 
outstanding term of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN52392222I told Prudential to compare the cost of such a policy against the total premiums Mr S had 
paid through his AVCs towards the additional  death  benefits  but only that part that 
provided the capital  sum element.  I also said Prudential  should pay Mr S £100 for the 
disruption to his retirement  planning.
I invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Prudential restated its case about the suitability of the advice. It said it didnt believe the 
advice had been unsuitable and said that Mr S had been made fully aware of every aspect of 
the AVCs  both in respect of additional  retirement  benefits and additional death  benefits.  It 
made the following points:
The recommendation provided a tax efficient way of providing the required life cover.
There was no evidence that Mr S did take out a £90,000 mortgage  for 15 years.
Mr S continued to work beyond age 55  so his requirement for additional life cover 
ran beyond  a 15-year term. The AVC had flexibility to cover such eventualities.
It didnt seem fair for Prudential to have  to compare the AVC premiums with a term 
assurance for 15 years, as that meant  Mr S would have benefitted from seven years  
free life cover.
The AVC life cover  provided a cheaper  option  for Mr S and its recommendation had 
been suitable. Therefore, his retirement  planning  hadnt been disrupted and it didnt 
believe the award of any compensation  was merited.
It carried out the loss calculation  as requested, which did show Mr S suffered a loss 
of £276.93 when comparing the AVC against  a term assurance policy.  But as Mr S 
had recently received  a refund of £4,450 from his AVC life cover  premiums there 
didnt appear to be any financial loss.
Mr S didnt provide  any further information  although he did state that he hadnt received an 
answer to his data subject  access request  that hed sent to Prudential.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Prudential has maintained its position here that the recommendation for additional life cover  
within the AVC was suitable   and gave Mr S a more tax efficient life cover vehicle. It said 
the adviser completed a shortfall planner which indicated Mr S required an additional 
£64,780 of cover along with potentially a further  £90,000 to cover a mortgage  he was looking 
to obtain. So, it thought  the additional  £108,000 of life cover  it recommended  was suitable.
But I disagree. Of the additional  cover  recommended, £50,000 was for a capital sum while 
the remainder was in the form of a dependents pension which  would pay £5,000  per annum. 
So while I think the additional dependent pension (family cover) was suitable I dont think  the 
capital lump sum was appropriate to cover the outstanding mortgage that Mr S was seeking.  
In his recommendation report the adviser  confirmed that one of Mr Ss objectives  was 
protecting a mortgage of £90,000 over a term of 15 years, so I think  it was reasonable to 
assume that a suitable recommendation for that part of Mr Ss needs ought to have  been  a 
specific policy for that amount over that term. 
As I said previously if Mr S had left his employment position  then the life cover  included with 
his occupational pension scheme  and with his AVCs would no longer have been available in 
Ref: DRN52392223the event of his death. So I think that, while the dependent pension  that was increased in the 
event of Mr Ss death, was suitable part of the recommendation I dont  think the advice to 
provide a capital  sum to help repay the mortgage  was suitable.  
I think that has led to Mr S suffering some disruption to his retirement  planning and has 
caused him some degree of inconvenience  in putting together  his complaint and trying to 
establish what advice  he ought to have  been given. Its my view that Prudential should pay 
Mr S £100  for that disruption and inconvenience.
However, Prudential  has carried out the calculation that I asked it to do in my provisional 
decision. Im satisfied with the information  that it has included in the calculation  and theres 
no reason for me to doubt the loss that it identified when comparing the premiums  of a 15-
year term assurance policy to the premiums Mr S paid into AVC  in respect of providing the 
capital sum.  But, and I did allude to this fact in my provisional decision, when a recent refund 
of AVC premiums of £4,450 is taken into account  then its clear that Mr S has paid less into 
the AVC than he would have done  into the comparable 15-year term policy and he hasnt 
therefore suffered  a financial  loss. 
So, while I think a part of Prudentials  advice  was unsuitable Mr S hasnt suffered any loss as 
a result of that advice  and isnt due any redress. 
In my provisional decision I said that I thought  Prudential had made  Mr S aware of the death 
benefits within the AVC contract  and how the premiums would increase. I said the overall 
costs were a matter for Prudential and that it had applied them  in line with how it said it 
would, so I didnt  think Prudential had done anything wrong  there. Mr S hasnt provided any 
further information around those complaint points, so I see no reason  to change the 
conclusions Ive already reached.
Mr S has said that he hasnt received the information he recently  requested from Prudential. 
I understand that request  is linked  to the original  advice  he received to transfer his 
occupational scheme benefits. That isnt part of Mr Ss complaint here, so Ill leave it for him 
to discuss that matter with Prudential in the first instance.
my final decision
Ref: DRN52392224For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I think The Prudential  
Assurance Company  Limiteds advice to increase Mr Ss death benefits  through an AVC to 
cover his mortgage was unsuitable. But it has shown that Mr S hasnt  suffered  any loss from 
that advice compared with the recommendation I said it should  have made.  So, no 
compensation is due to Mr S.
But Prudential should pay £100 for the disruption its advice caused to Mr Ss retirement 
planning.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S or reject my 
decision before  9 November 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52392225copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he was given  to improve  the death  benefits  of his employers 
occupational pension scheme through a Teachers Additional Voluntary  Contribution (AVC)  plan with 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  (Prudential). He says this has had an impact on the level 
of pension benefits he expected. He also complains that the premiums required  to improve  the death  
benefits were  extortionately high and exceeded the 15-year term he agreed initially.
background
In February 1998 Mr S applied  for an AVC plan with Prudential.  The application form he completed 
noted that he wanted to pay 9% of his salary to enhance my pension  benefit  and improve  my death 
benefit. As this was the maximum contribution allowable each month the total cost required  to 
provide a death benefit  of £108,000 (£9.72 per month)  was deducted  from that contribution. The 
benefit was split between £58,000 to be paid as lump sum and £50,000 to be used to provide 
dependents benefits.  
The cost of providing  the death  benefits  increased in line with age related bands and in 2019 was due 
to increase to £456.96 per annum. 
Mr S said he discovered discrepancies between his payments and the statements  hed received so he 
queried this with Prudential. Prudential provided  evidence  to confirm that 
Mr S had agreed to the life cover contributions  and that the ongoing cost varied according  to his age.
Mr S accepted that hed agreed to pay for a life cover element in the beginning but didnt agree  that 
hed been provided with the various options around the contributions every three years  or that hed 
agreed to pay beyond the initial  15-year term that he thought had been set. He complained because  
he couldnt understand  the reason behind the fluctuations in the cost of providing the death  benefits. 
Prudentials final response of 17 January  2019 made the following points,  whilst not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint.
When he joined the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) he was made  aware of the use of 
AVCs to increase  retirement and death benefit provision.
The financial review  that was completed by the adviser in 1998 showed that Mr Ss mortgage  
wasnt fully covered  in the event of his death,  so advice was given  to increase the TPS 
benefits to ensure the mortgage was fully protected.
A dependents pension could also be included as part of the overall  death benefit package.
The quotation that was issued  at the time showed the cost of life cover would increase  over 
time and that if the overall contributions werent  increased the final pension  benefits  would be 
less.
The key features  document showed that life cover costs depended on the level of cover and 
age  and would increase in three-year bands. The last change in 2016 increased the cost to 
£113.40 per month for the same level of cover.
Mr Ss annual statements would  have  confirmed the regular premium increases and shown a 
reduced projection of retirement benefits.
 
Mr S said he wanted a breakdown of all his monthly contributions so that he could see the split 
between contributions towards his pension  and death benefits separately.  As he didnt  receive this 
information he brought his complaint to us, where  one of our investigators looked  into the matter.  He 
said:
Ref: DRN52392226Its not unreasonable for life cover premiums to increase with age but also to decrease with 
changes in mortality  rates. He thought Prudential had made Mr S aware of all the changes in 
premiums so overall, he didnt think  Prudential had done anything  wrong  or that the 
premiums were excessive.
Prudential had recommended the life cover for a term of 15 years,  but it was still in force after 
21 years.  The investigator thought  Prudential  had caused Mr S some  trouble and upset over 
this matter and recommended it paid him £300.  However, he thought  Mr S could have 
cancelled the life cover and mitigated his position  at any time  and hed had the benefit  of the 
cover in the meantime.
But Mr S didnt agree.  He said the proposed rise in the annual life cover premium wasnt the issue, 
hed been paying £113.40 per month and he thought that was extortionate, especially  as the new 
premium was only around 25% of what he had been paying. He also provided  evidence of a letter 
from Prudential in which  it offered a one-off refund of £4,450 against life cover premiums  from 31 
December 2014. He saw this as proof that the premiums had been excessive. He was also concerned 
that he couldnt  access  details of the premiums hed paid before mid-2015, as he believed  Prudential 
may have been taking  incorrect premiums.
The investigator noted  this and agreed it made the policy expensive but reiterated that there are 
many factors that can affect premiums and confirmed  Mr S did have the option to cancel the policy. 
Prudential also disagreed. It said that while the financial  review did recommend life cover over a term 
of 15 years, Mr S was given an open ended, flexible plan with tax efficiency that was unavailable in 
other plans.  So it thought hed benefitted from being advised to use AVC life cover to cover  his 
outstanding mortgage. 
It also thought that Mr S had been advised through a number of documents  and letters that the cover 
was open ended and could be stopped at any time, so it didnt think  Mr S would have been surprised 
that the premiums  continued  and didnt  think the award  of £300 was therefore appropriate.
As he was furnished  with new information the investigator reconsidered  his view and decided  that the 
life cover was suitable  and intended to last for 15 years. But he thought  Mr S should have been 
aware that the plan wouldnt stop after 15 years and should have  been aware  of the premiums 
through all the information  Prudential provided him with. He thought Mr S should  have known he 
could have cancelled  the life cover at any point and therefore didnt  now believe  Prudential should pay 
£300.
Prudential agreed with the revised findings but as Mr S didnt agree and no resolution could be found 
the complaints  been passed  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr S made aware of the additional death benefits included in his AVCs and that the premiums  
would increase?
Ive looked at the brochure that was made available to explain how the AVCs worked.  Under the 
section what happens if I die? it confirmed you can also use your AVCs to provide extra benefits for 
your dependents should you die while still making contributionsthe cost depends  on how much  
cover you wish to provide  and on your age. The cost increases in three-year age bands on 1 April as 
shown in table1 overleaf. The examples  beneath the tables will help explain how we work  out the 
cost.
When he took out the AVCs  Mr S was 39 years old which, from the table,  shows the cost of life cover 
would have been 9 pence  per £1,000 of cover. 
Ref: DRN52392227That cost rose to £1.05 per £1,000  at the age of 58. I think the table within  the brochure  was clear that 
the cost of providing the life cover would increase every  two years or so, and some of these later 
increases were quite significant   so I cant say Prudential didnt make Mr S aware of how the cost of 
providing life cover and dependents benefits would work.
And of course,  Mr S opted  to pay 9% of his salary into AVCs  which was the maximum permissible  
under pension legislation. So any additional death benefits would need to be taken  from that 
maximum contribution, which meant the amount being invested to increase Mr Ss retirement 
provision was also reduced over the term of the plan.
So I think Prudential  made Mr D aware  of how the cost of providing death  benefits  would  be 
calculated and how it would  continue  to change depending on age. Mr S said that he hadnt been 
aware of the additional life cover element, but now accepts, following Prudential  providing him the 
evidence, that he signed his application to include that element.   And I note the application form 
stated that I have received  the key features documentand  the members AVC booklet,  so Mr S 
in effect also signed to say hed seen the table, included  within the brochure, that set out the age 
bands which formed the basis of the life cover premiums.   
The declaration within the application form also said I understand  that the additional benefit  cover will 
cease on retirement, leaving  service or cessation of premiums , while the brochure also confirmed 
what happens if I die? to pay for this valuable  protection, a monthly  premium is taken out of your 
AVC until your normal retirement  date or the date you leave service (whichever  is the sooner) , or until 
you decided that you no longer need  the protection.
So I cant agree with Mr S that he wasnt  made  aware  that the premiums for the life cover would 
increase every few years  or that they would continue until he drew  his pension benefits unless he left 
the service earlier. Im satisfied that Prudential made its position  on these matters clear in a number  of 
documents. 
The level of premiums  and the impact on the AVC fund
Mr S says the death benefit premiums were extortionately high  and have impacted  on his pension 
AVC contributions. And I can understand why Mr S would be disappointed with his final retirement  
provision if it didnt match  with what he expected from the outset.  But as Ive said Im satisfied Mr S 
agreed to the level of contributions  required  to improve  his death benefits in addition to his retirement  
provision. And in most circumstances, theres no regulatory limit on the amount that a provider can 
take by way of premiums. So I cant safely say Prudentials premiums were extortionate and we 
wouldnt normally comment on the level of premiums that have been  set, where they appear to have  
been set to take into account mortality rates and applied consistently   if the provider  has laid them  
out previously  which I think  Prudential has done here. 
Looking at the amount  of £113.40  that Mr S was paying,  Im satisfied that figure was correct according 
to the table  in the brochure, for the amount of life cover  chosen for Mr S and using his age at that 
point. Mr S says the letter  he received in January 2019  which explained  that the life cover costs  
were being  reduced  to £321.84 per annum  show that the previous amounts were excessive. But, for 
the reasons Ive given, I think Prudential  is entitled  to change the costs if it has a justified commercial 
reason to do so. In this case its explained that changes in mortality rates  have led to reductions in the 
charges it makes for life cover  and its decided to backdate those  reductions which has led to Mr S 
receiving a refund.  That doesnt seem an unreasonable  action to me and Mr S has also seen the 
benefit of reduced life cover  premiums. 
I know Mr S would like us to tell Prudential to investigate the life cover premiums before 2014, and I 
can understand why he would think there might be a problem having received a refund of £4,450 for 
the fact that Prudential would like to have reduced its rates from 2015 onwards.  But, as Ive 
suggested already, the question  of what level of premiums Prudential imposes is a matter  for it to 
decide based  on a number of different factors. 
Ref: DRN52392228We dont  generally  interfere with such commercial  decisions, if they are made fairly  and applied  
consistently and as long Prudential  has set them  out accordingly and made Mr S aware which I think 
it has, both through the table in the brochure, and through the regular statements  and review  letters. 
Was the term extended beyond the original agreement of 15 years without Mr Ss agreement and was 
the recommendation suitable?
Mr S says the plan he agreed  to take out was set to provide life cover for a term of 15 years.  Ive 
looked carefully  at the application form and theres no evidence to show that the plan was set up for 
15 years. 
But I have seen, from the financial review that Prudential completed in 1998, that the adviser 
identified a shortfall in life cover protection of £64,780 for Mr S over a term of 15 years.  And Ive 
carefully considered the financial review  summary  report that the adviser sent Mr S shortly 
afterwards. It said I have provided you with a quotation based on the normal retirement age of your 
scheme. I have also provided  you with a quotation for the term requested, where  this ends prior to 
your normal retirement dateI recommend an amount of £108,000 over a term of 15 years at regular  
premium of £9.72 per month. You decided  to accept my recommendation.
So I can certainly  understand  why Mr S might have thought the premiums would continue  for that 
length of time.  But that document was used by the adviser to gather information about Mr S and his 
partner, in order  to make recommendations. So I think the adviser was simply  stating that Mr S 
needed a certain amount of cover for a particular length of time as his recommendation.  But those 
werent the actual particulars of the plan that was taken out  which Ive already  said Prudential  made  
clear was to run until Mr S stopped  it, left the TPS or drew his AVC benefits. 
Indeed, the advisers recommendation was to take out life cover to the value of £64,780, which wasnt 
taken up as a recommendation.  So, although I can understand why Mr S believed that was the term 
of the plan,  I think the financial review simply  contained the advisers  various recommendations, not 
the specific  details of the final plan that was taken  out, which were available from the key features 
document and accompanying brochure.  I note the financial review summary report  that was sent to 
Mr S confirmed his needs and included  life assurance protection, critical illness cover and protecting a 
mortgage all for a term of 15 years. But the final recommendation was for an open-ended life cover 
plan. 
So Ive thought very carefully about whether  the Prudentials advice was suitable  because, although I 
think Prudential made Mr S aware of how the death benefits worked  within the AVCs,  its important to 
consider whether this advice  was suitable in the first place. And looking at the fact find the adviser 
completed for Mr and Mrs S it was noted that they had applied for a mortgage  of £90,000  over a term 
of 15 years. The adviser advised Mr S to take out the AVC death benefits to cover the mortgage,  but I 
dont think that was suitable advice. I say that for a number  of reasons. 
Firstly, Mr S needed to pay the premiums to cover the mortgage in the event of his death,  regardless 
of his employment situation.  In this case had Mr S left his job he would have stopped receiving both 
his death in service benefits from his employer and the additional TAVC  death benefits immediately  
which would have meant he wasnt covered in the event  of death. He hadnt  been with his employer 
for that long  six years, so it seems  there was a reasonable chance he might change jobs in the 
future.
Secondly the AVC death benefit premiums were set up to increase every couple  of years  resulting  
in quite significant premiums as Mr S got older. I think its possible that a fixed cost level term plan 
over 15 years would have  been cheaper for Mr S, regardless of the tax relief  he received on his 
AVCs. In any case I think illustrations for both options should  have been put before  him.
Finally, the AVC death benefit didnt  match Mr Ss needs for either the cover  or the term he needed. 
The cover  was open  ended  and provided £58,000 of capital, whereas he required  cover for his 
mortgage of £90,000 over 15 years.  
Ref: DRN52392229So for those reasons I dont think the life cover  within  the AVCs was suitable for Mr S and I think 
Prudential ought to compare  the cost of a level term policy over 15 years against the total amount  of 
AVC life cover premiums hes paid to date, less the refund thats already been  made.
However, I recognise that part of the AVC death benefit  package was for a dependents pension 
which I think  was a suitable recommendation to make as it wasnt linked to the protection of the 
mortgage and provided Mr S with a valuable  benefit for his family in the event of his death. So I think  
Prudential should exclude  the cost of providing  those benefits  from its comparison.  Its possible that, 
allowing for that exclusion and the earlier  refund, Mr S may have benefited from lower overall  
premiums than what he should have paid, in which  case there would  be no compensation to be paid. 
But if the comparison shows that Mr S has paid more  than he would have  done using a level term 
policy then the difference should be paid to him with the addition of 8% simple interest from the date 
of each payment to the date of the calculation. 
The compensation  should,  if possible, be paid into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should be 
paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for future  income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. For example, if Mr D would have been yet to take a tax-free 
cash sum from the pension 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this. If either  
party can provide clear  evidence that Mr S wouldnt  be a basic rate tax payer when he draws  his 
benefits it should  provide  that evidence following this provisional decision.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr Ss complaint against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  
in part.
Prudential should carry out the comparison  of life cover  premiums  as set out above  to see if Mr S 
has suffered  a loss. In addition, I think Prudential should  pay Mr S £100 for the disruption  this matter 
has caused  to his retirement  planning.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5239222