K820x#14complaint
Ms D and Mr S applied for an overdraft on their joint account with Lloyds Bank Plc, which 
Lloyds refused. They have complained that Lloyds didnt  assess  their application fairly.
background
Ms D and Mr S have a long standing joint account with Lloyds which they use to pay bills. 
Their incomes arent paid into this account. In November 2018 they asked Lloyds for a 
£2,500 overdraft, which Lloyds refused to provide. Ms D is unhappy she wasnt  given the 
chance to provide any evidence to show her income  or to prove the overdraft  was affordable.  
Ms D and Mr S feel embarrassed by the refusal of the overdraft and think that Lloyds arent 
treating their customers fairly.
Our investigator found that Lloyds were  acting reasonably by following  their policy  and 
making a decision  based on the information available to them  at the time.  Because of this 
she didnt think Lloyds  had done anything wrong.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigator. She feels Lloyds didnt treat her fairly by not letting  
her prove affordability. Shes also said they previously had an overdraft of £2,150 with 
Lloyds, even though her incomes were not paid into their Lloyds account when this overdraft 
was approved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Lloyds  case report about  the overdraft application. This says that the overdraft 
was declined for a number of different reasons. Lloyds  dont offer customers a guaranteed 
overdraft and they have a policy in place that says when  they can, and cant, offer this 
facility. 
Lloyds made  their decision in line with their policy, and I havent seen anything  to suggest 
this policy  was applied  unfairly. Because of this, I think Lloyds acted reasonably.  The 
decision to grant an overdraft or not is one that Lloyds can make, and if they didnt consider 
allowing Ms D to prove her income and affordability wouldve altered their decision then it 
was reasonable  they didnt ask her for this proof.
When Ms D and Mr S applied for their previous overdraft with Lloyds, this wouldve been 
assessed on their circumstances and Lloyds policy at the time.  Policies  and circumstances 
can change, so I dont think that the reason why a previous overdraft for a similar  amount  
was approved makes  this refusal unfair.
Ref: DRN52581512my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Ms Ds and Mr Ss complaint about Lloyds 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258151