K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) treated him 
unfairly by declining his claim for critical illness benefit and cancelling  his policies.
background
Mr D missed a payment to his former  life insurance policy  provider, so his old policy  was 
cancelled. Mr D says he was telephoned  by an independent financial adviser, that Ill refer to 
as Company R, which explained  his old policy provider had cancelled his policy and offered 
to arrange a new one for him. Whilst arranging  the policies, Company R asked Mr D lots of 
questions about  his health,  and Mr D disclosed he suffered  from some  medical  conditions,  
including anxiety.
Company R arranged two new level term-assurance policies with L&G for Mr D  one policy 
had life cover with a sum assured of £49,987  and the other policy had life and critical illness  
cover with a sum assured  of £16,663.  As part of the policy applications, Company R asked 
Mr D questions about his health, which he answered. This happened  in a phone  call on 
24 January 2019.  Company R then contacted L&G, which then wrote  to Mr D saying it was 
prepared to offer him the two policies mentioned above. Company R asked L&G to start the 
policy from 25 January 2019.  
Later in the day on 24 January 2019,  Mr D consulted his GP as he was feeling unwell. He 
was then admitted  to hospital. The hospitals discharge sheet said Mr D was admitted with 
symptoms suggestive of heart failure and was diagnosed with cardiomegaly  and 
cardiomyopathy  he was in hospital  for around three weeks.
In the meantime, Company R contacted L&G about  Mr Ds policy application.  As part of its 
review of Mr Ds policy application, L&G wrote to Mr Ds doctor  on 26 January 2019  to ask 
for more information about his medical history. 
On 14 February 2019, Mr Ds partner called L&G to make a claim on his policy   L&G sent 
Mr D a claim form to complete. In the meantime, L&G heard back  from Mr Ds GP on 
6 March 2019.
L&G received Mr Ds claim form on 12 March 2019. Mr D also called L&G the same  day, 
after hed received L&Gs checking your details form. This form asked Mr D to check 
whether the details hed given when applying for the policy  were  correct or whether anything  
had changed.  Mr D said he wanted  to know if he needed to tell L&G about a virus  he had  
and L&G said it didnt  need to know about this. Mr D returned the checking your details 
form on 13 March 2019, which said the details he gave  on his application were  correct. 
After assessing  the information provided by Mr Ds GP, L&G decided to withdraw Mr Ds 
cover. It wrote to him on 13 March 2019, explaining it had withdrawn cover because Mr Ds 
GP said Mr D had suffered from palpitations and abdominal bloating, breathlessness and leg 
swelling before he was admitted  to hospital.  After  being admitted to hospital,  he was 
diagnosed with cardiomyopathy.  Because L&G cancelled Mr Ds cover, it refunded the 
premiums hed paid towards his policies  but L&G wouldnt consider his claim for critical 
illness benefit. Mr D complained to L&G about its decision. He said he provided Company R 
with information  about his health and felt L&G was trying to avoid paying  his claim.
In response, L&G said:
Ref: DRN59423662Company R admitted  to L&G that Mr D told them about  his anxiety diagnosis, but 
Company R didnt pass this on to L&G.  L&G said Mr D should contact Company R 
about this.
It should have  asked Mr D for more  details about  his virus when  he called on 
12 March 2019.
It also chose to withdraw Mr Ds cover because of previous hospital  referrals and 
investigations on 9 and 22 January 2019   in addition  to Mr Ds hospitalisation on 
24 January 2019. It said it would  have postponed offering  Mr D cover if it had been 
made aware of these  investigations. 
Its letter of 13 March  2019 could have been clearer, and admitted  it didnt  provide  the 
right information to Mr Ds partner when she called L&G on 19 March  2019.
To apologise for the upset  caused, L&G offered Mr D £200  compensation.  Unhappy  with 
L&Gs response, Mr D referred  his complaint  to our service to review.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
noted Mr D was asked  whether,  in the last five years, he had seen a doctor, nurse or other 
health professional for chest pain,  palpitations  or irregular heartbeat. He was also asked if he 
had been referred  to a hospital within the last 12 months for any condition  not already 
disclosed to L&G. Mr D answered no to these questions, but L&G thought Mr D should 
have answered  yes, given hed spoken  to his GP about heart  palpitations and been referred 
to his hospitals Accident  and Emergency  department  in the weeks prior to his application. 
Mr D had also been admitted to hospital the day before his policy  began  on 25 January 
2019.
As Mr D didnt  tell L&G this information,  our investigator thought  there had been a 
misrepresentation and L&G was entitled to take the action as it would have done if it had 
known the above information. L&G said it would have postponed cover until the outcome of 
Mr Ds investigations were known   and it wouldnt have offered cover after Mr D was 
diagnosed with heart failure. Our investigator  was satisfied  L&G was entitled to withdraw 
Mr Ds cover and didnt  have to consider his claim for critical illness  benefit. Our investigator 
noted L&Gs  offer of £200 compensation for errors  in the way it handled Mr Ds claim (in its 
letter of 13 March 2019 and telephone calls on 12 and 19 March 2019) and thought this offer 
fairly recognised the trouble and upset caused  by its mistakes.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said he thought  he had a virus, and thats 
what hed told his doctors. He said there were no further investigations booked on 
24 January 2019   he said these  werent arranged until 28 January 2019,  after his policy  
started. Our investigator  explained Mr D was asked whether hed been referred to hospital   
and he was referred one day before his policy began so he had a duty to disclose his referral 
to hospital to L&G. Mr D remained unhappy, saying he wasnt  referred to hospital on 
24 January 2019   he went  of his own free will. He said he didnt say he had heart 
palpitations  he thought he was suffering from anxiety, which  he did disclose  to 
Company R. As Mr D didnt accept  our investigators opinion,  his complaint was referred to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  the available  
Ref: DRN59423663evidence, I dont think this is a complaint I should uphold. I realise my decision will be very 
disappointing for Mr D, but Ill explain my reasons.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA placed Mr D under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided L&G asked  him a clear  question. If Mr D didnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately, CIDRA  sets out the remedies available  to L&G.  
was there  a misrepresentation?
I first need to decide whether Mr D met his obligation to take reasonable care when 
completing his application  for insurance. If he didnt  do so, this amounts  to a 
misrepresentation. 
As part of his application, Mr D was asked  the following questions:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor,  nurse  or other  health  professional for:
anxiety, depression or stress  thats  required treatment  or counselling,  or chronic  
fatigue syndrome?

chest pain,  palpitations  or irregular  heartbeat? 
Mr D says he disclosed his anxiety to Company  R. Hes also said his anxiety and a virus 
were the reasons he visited the hospital on 24 January 2019   the day before his policy  
commenced. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds medical history, the GPs notes from 17 January 2019 say Mr D 
wanted to discuss ongoing palpitations  Patient planning to call A&E to find out if 
cardiology referral has been  made. On 22 January  2019, the notes say Mr D was seen in 
A&E with palps and overbreathing thought to be anxiety. The notes suggest the GP went 
on to diagnose  Mr D with a viral infection.  And on 24 January 2019, the GPs notes say:
History:  had a fit last night bighting the side of his tongue, describes his pulse as 
coming out of his neck  feels his neck is swelling  movement restricted  because of 
swelling in his legs
Diagnosis: Tachycardia
Plan: Changed plan from investigation to a referral  to A&E  he might be anxious but 
he also has a significant tachycardia with gallop rhythm
Hospital Refer to accident and emergency department
The notes from Mr Ds hospital  say Mr D presented  after advice from GP, he was reviewed 
and admitted to hospital. The notes go on to say:
Plan
IV fluids  given for tacchardia [sic]
Referred to surgeons and medics
Patient to be under medics and reviewed by the surgical team.
Ref: DRN59423664The notes go on to say:
Investigations Biochemistry,  24/01/2019 20:01
Haematology, 24/01/2019  20:24
The notes also suggest Mr D underwent a chest  x-ray  on 24 January 2019:
Report
XR Chest  24-Jan-2019,  16:52
There is a grossly enlarged cardiac  outline. There are no background parenchymal  
features of pulmonary venous  congestion.  Is there a known  cardiac history? 
Cardiology referral is recommended.
I think there is persuasive evidence that Mr D had experienced heart palpitations from 
9 January 2019. Mr D says he believed he suffered from anxiety only up until the point of his 
hospital admission.  I note there are numerous  references to his suffering heart  palpitations 
before he applied for the policies on 24 January 2019, and that the records  show  Mr D had 
suffered some sort of fit the night  before his application. Even If I were to accept Mr D 
believed he suffered only from anxiety, which was the cause of the symptoms his GP 
recorded, when  he spoke to Company R on 24 January 2019, he had an ongoing duty to 
disclose any changes to his health before his policy was set up on 25 January 2019. 
It was later the same day, after speaking to Company R about his application  for life and 
critical illness cover, that Mr D attended hospital.  I think there is persuasive evidence which 
suggests Mr D was referred to hospital  by his GP on 24 January 2019 and that the hospital  
then admitted him for further investigations to find the cause of his heart problems  not for a 
virus or anxiety. Mr Ds admission to hospital  for investigations into his heart problems 
occurred before his policy  began on 25 January 2019. So, Mr D had a duty to disclose his 
admission to hospital and referral  for further  investigations on 24 January  2019, as his 
policies were not yet in force. I appreciate  Mr D was too unwell to contact L&G before his 
policy began on 25 January 2019   but it remains that L&G had the right to consider any 
changes to Mr Ds health that occurred prior to the policies commencing.  For these reasons, 
I think a misrepresentation occurred.
A qualifying  misrepresentation will have occurred  if the information that was not disclosed 
wouldve made a difference  to the terms L&G wouldve offered to Mr D. For example, if L&G 
wouldnt have offered Mr D a policy, or it wouldve  charged him a higher premium, this would 
be a qualifying misrepresentation.  So Ive gone  on to consider whether  a qualifying 
misrepresentation occurred here.
what would  L&G have  done differently? 
L&G has provided its underwriting  guidance,  which supports L&Gs statement that it would 
have postponed offering him cover  under his policies if it had been made aware of Mr Ds 
admission to hospital for further tests on 24 January 2019. I note Mr D says he disclosed  
other medical conditions  to Company  R that were not passed on to L&G. Ive not 
commented on these  as I think L&G has shown it would have postponed offering Mr D cover 
until the hospital had investigated the reason Mr D was having heart problems.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest L&G would have acted differently  I dont think 
theres any reason  why L&G wouldve  decided  to offer Mr D cover  on its standard terms from 
25 January 2019  if it had been made aware  of his admission to hospital  with heart problems 
Ref: DRN59423665the day before his cover started. I think its likely L&G would have postponed its decision 
about whether  to offer Mr D cover  until the cause of his illness was investigated. 
I know Mr D thinks  its unfair L&G decided to withdraw his cover,  and that his claim has been 
subsequently declined. After Mr D was admitted to hospital, he was diagnosed with heart 
failure, amongst  other things. These conditions were discovered before I think  L&G would 
have offered him cover. And once Mr Ds conditions were known, the evidence  Ive seen 
shows L&G would have  declined  to offer him any cover at all. Because  of this, I think  L&G 
was entitled to void Mr Ds policies and treated him fairly by refunding  the premiums he paid 
towards these.
I note L&G said it made mistakes when handling  Mr Ds claims. In particular, it said it could 
have been clearer  why it withdrew withdraw  cover in its letter of 13 March 2019 and could 
have been clearer  in its telephone calls of claim on 12 and 19 March 2019.  To be clear  to 
Mr D, there  is nothing  to suggest  the mistakes affected L&Gs  decision to withdraw  cover  and 
decline his claim  and Ive already explained why I think L&Gs  decision was reasonable. 
Having considered the likely impact  on Mr D by L&G not clearly communicating  with him, I 
think £200 fairly compensates Mr D for the trouble and upset these issues caused.
my final decision
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr D, but I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5942366