K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  wont pay him the money that he says 
should be in his savings account.  Nationwide says that the money was withdrawn in 2008  
and 2009 and is therefore no longer available for Mr T to withdraw. 
background
Mr T opened a savings account  with Nationwide in 2003. He says he didnt use it and that, 
when he attempted  to make a withdrawal in March 2018, he expected there to be more  than 
£3,000 in it. It was then that he found  out that a new passbook had been  issued in June 
2008 and a new account number issued. Shortly before that a total of £1,500  had been  
withdrawn from the account, in three  withdrawals of £500 each. And in November 2008  and 
January 2009  a further £1,700 had been withdrawn in four transactions.  
Mr T said he hadnt ordered a new passbook in 2008 (and in fact he still had the old one) 
and hadnt been responsible for the seven withdrawals made  between  June 2008 and 
January 2009.  Nobody else could have been acting on his behalf either, since  he lived alone  
because of health issues. He felt it would  have been  easy  for someone else to obtain a 
replacement passbook and to impersonate him to obtain the money from the account.  
When Mr T referred  the matter  to this service, our investigator said initially that she thought  
we had no power to consider it. That was because the disputed withdrawals had been made 
more than six years before Mr T had raised  his complaint. We cant generally consider a 
complaint brought that long after the events giving  rise to the complaint, and there was no 
reason to apply  any of the exceptions to that rule. 
Mr T didnt  accept that, however, and explained  why he thought  there were reasons to 
disregard the usual  time limits. One of our ombudsmen  considered  the position and decided 
that we did, after all, have the power to consider  Mr Ts complaint. Thats  because  she 
thought that the event that Mr T was complaining about wasnt the activity on the account  in 
2008 and 2009, but Nationwides  refusal  to let him withdraw the money  which he said should 
have been in the account. 
The investigator therefore considered the case on its merits. Whilst she acknowledged that 
there was only limited information and evidence available, on balance  it was likely that Mr T 
had carried out the withdrawals himself.  She didnt  recommend that Nationwide make any 
refund. Mr T didnt agree with the investigators assessment, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, I have come 
to the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
One of the reasons this service  in common with the courts and other dispute resolution  
services  applies time limits is because  evidence can go missing and recollections become 
less reliable. So, whilst an ombudsman decided that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
look at Mr Ts complaint, it needs  to be considered in that context. Nationwides  records are 
less complete than they would have been ten years  ago, and Ive no doubt there are things 
that Mr T may have  forgotten. 
Ref: DRN50174852There is however clear evidence that Nationwide issued a new account  number  in June 
2008. Its likely that was done because  the original passbook had been reported  missing. Its 
likely too that the three withdrawals in June  2008  were made without the passbook, since  
they dont appear  in it. Mr T says he didnt make  the withdrawals or report the book missing, 
and he still has that passbook. Its possible of course that it was missing  but that Mr T later 
found it; but its also possible that someone  else reported the book missing  perhaps with a 
view to accessing the account without  Mr Ts knowledge. But if someone  wanted to make  
withdrawals without the passbook, they would have  needed some  form of identification.    
Nationwide cannot  say whether the subsequent withdrawals were made using a passbook  or not. 
If they were, however,  I would need  to consider how someone other than Mr T could have 
obtained possession  of it; it would have been  sent to his address. And anyone ordering a 
replacement book would have needed to provide  identification. If, on the other hand, no passbook 
was used, the person making the withdrawals would also have needed  to provide identification.   
As the investigator  identified, there is very little detailed information now about how the 
withdrawals were made and the new account  number obtained. Whilst Mr T has sought to 
show that it would be relatively easy for someone  to imitate him to withdraw  cash  and order 
a new passbook, Im not persuaded that happened here  over a period of several months 
and in more than one branch of Nationwide. 
Ive no doubt that Mr T genuinely believes that he didnt withdraw the money  from his 
account. But the evidence that he didnt do so is, in truth, little more  than the fact that he 
doesnt remember doing so. And the fact that he didnt realise until many years later what  
had happened  has meant that evidence that might  corroborate or disprove his recollection  is 
no longer available. On balance though  and like the investigator  I think  it more likely than 
not that Mr T made  the withdrawals himself. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5017485