K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a portfolio of buy-to-let  (BTL) properties that Mr T owns, with 
mortgages provided by Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Birmingham Midshires (BM). Hes 
unhappy that BM capitalised the arrears on only some of the accounts  after having  agreed to 
capitalise arrears on the entire mortgage  portfolio.
background
BM accepts that it did initially agree to capitalise arrears over the entire  portfolio. But in its 
final response went on to explain that capitalisation  was a concession  rather than an 
obligation, and therefore could be withdrawn  at any time. It apologised for having  given Mr T 
contradictory information and offered him £150 compensation.
When Mr T referred  his complaint here,  our adjudicator thought  BMs response  was fair and 
said so. Mr T wants his complaint reviewed  by an ombudsman; he says BM guaranteed  all 
of the mortgages  would be capitalised,  and thinks it should be held to that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Mr T, as I also think BMs response  to the complaint is fair.
Mr T has characterised  what BM said about  capitalising his mortgage  arrears as a 
guarantee. Hes free to think of it in those  terms, but the reality is that an agreement  to 
provide a concession is something about  which a business  can change its mind  if it wishes.  
Such things  are a matter  of commercial judgement for a business,  and we wont generally 
interfere with that.
BMs failure here was in not letting Mr T know what  it had decided.  Its offered him £150 
compensation for that, and in the circumstances, I find that fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay 
Mr T £150. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5354863