K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland)  trading as Halifax.
background
Mr F took out an URCA in February  2009  which  incurred a monthly  fee of £12.50. Mr F says 
he chose to take out the URCA because Bank of Scotland gave him incorrect  information.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Fs complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mr F disagrees  so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F has been  clear about his complaint.  He says that he was aware  the URCA was optional  
and he chose to take it out. His issue is that he says he was given incorrect information 
about the overdraft benefits, the car emergency  service and the impact  of pre-existing 
medical conditions  on the travel  insurance. 
Mr F says that Bank of Scotland recommended the URCA  to him and advised him to take it 
out. He says that if he had been advised properly and given correct information, he wouldnt 
have taken it out. Bank of Scotland says it didnt advise Mr F to take out the policy and it 
says it did give him correct information. 
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of his needs or circumstances  to show 
that Bank  of Scotland did advise Mr F to take out the URCA. Im sure the substantial 
explanation of the accounts benefits felt to Mr F as though Bank of Scotland  was saying the 
URCA was a good idea.  But this is not the same as advising him or making a personal  
recommendation. And based on this services  knowledge of Bank of Scotlands  sales in this 
period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr F on an 
information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland didnt need to check if the URCA was suitable for Mr F, it only needed  
to provide him with sufficient information about  it to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits  including worldwide travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover and mobile phone insurance.  And it offered better 
overdraft facilities than a current account  including a fee free overdraft  of up to £300. 
I dont know exactly what Bank of Scotland said or what information it gave Mr F about the 
URCA. But, as Ive said above, I think its likely  Bank of Scotland  wouldve described  the 
URCA to him at some length as it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think  the URCA  
would have been of interest to Mr F. 
I say this because  Mr F has told us he had a home,  a car, a mobile phone and he travelled 
up to three  times a year.  He also had a substantial  overdraft at the time of sale. And Bank of 
Ref: DRN57204392Scotland has provided evidence that he used  many of the benefits over the time he had the 
account. But Mr Fs complaint has three core issues about the information  he was given  
which Ill address below. Some information  was given  to him verbally, which  I obviously cant  
check. But it was also given in the welcome pack that he was sent, so Ive reviewed the 
February 2008 URCA welcome  pack as this was the relevant pack in February 2009.
the overdraft
In my view the welcome pack  explains and highlights  the £300  fee free overdraft available 
and it signposts  the reader to the fees and charges section. This section clearly shows that 
there is a £28 fee for going over an arranged overdraft and it gives the interest rate charged 
on any amount over an arranged overdraft.
I note that Mr F has referred to daily charges of £1, £2 etc per day depending on the level of 
the overdraft but these  were introduced in a product development in December 2009  after 
hed taken out the account. Ive reviewed  an example of the information  sent out at that time 
and these charges  were  highlighted clearly.
the car breakdown service
The welcome pack highlights the car breakdown service as roadside  assistance. In my view 
its clear that this applies anywhere  in the UK. So if Mr F was charged  extra  on one occasion 
for roadside  assistance  when he was 30 miles away from home, he should take this up with 
the car breakdown service but the information  provided at the time of sale was correct.
the travel  insurance  and Mr Fs medical  conditions
Again, in my view the welcome booklet makes it clear that any pre-existing medical 
conditions need  to be declared, and this includes any condition which he thought might 
affect his cover. Mr F has described his medical condition and I think  its more likely than not 
he would  have understood  that he needed  to declare it. 
conclusion
So in my view I think  Mr F knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not and 
he chose to do so. I think  the URCA was of interest  to him and there  was no information  that 
Mr F didnt  receive from Bank of Scotland that would  likely have put him off taking it out. So I 
dont think Mr F lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done  wrong  
when it sold him the URCA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5720439