K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Prepaid Financial Services Ltd (PFS) has unfairly  taken the money he 
deposited on his pre-paid card. He wants his money back and for PFS to be punished.
background
Mr W obtained a pre-paid card before travelling  abroad. He said he was then sent another  
card with his name printed on it, but said that PFS has stolen his money. He said he has 
about 850 euros on the account  which he cant access.
PFS said after it issued  the initial card Mr W applied for an upgrade to his funds limit, but he 
provided an identity  document which failed the companys checks.  PFS said it then blocked 
the card in line with its terms  and conditions. PFS has showed  us a statement that shows  the 
account holds  around 10 euros.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said PFS had requested 
identification and when Mr Ws document failed  its checks the company acted in line with its 
terms and conditions to block the account. He said the checks  are to protect customers  and 
so he couldnt  say that PFS had acted  unfairly.
Mr W disagreed,  saying  he is disabled and PFS hadnt helped him. He said hed sent his 
passport to PFS three times but it wont release  his funds. PFS said it has no record  of 
record of receiving a copy  of Mr Ws passport.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  carefully  at PFSs handling of Mr Ws card account to see if it has acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions and treated him fairly.  Mr W said that PFS wont 
respond to his communications. I have seen that PFS wrote to Mr W and explained it had 
blocked his account because his identity document failed its checks.
Mr Ws card was blocked when his identification  document failed PFSs checks. PFS said 
identity checks are required when  a card holder wants to increase the limit of funds on the 
card. I think it was reasonable for PFS to require Mr W to prove  his identity. I have  seen a 
copy of the identity document provided by Mr W and I can understand why PFS wasnt 
satisfied. I havent  seen a record that PFS has received  any other identity documents from 
Mr W. 
I can see that PFS has followed its terms and conditions in blocking the account and has 
acted in line with its regulatory responsibilities to ensure it knows its customer. I havent 
found that PFS has treated  Mr W unfairly  in blocking his account  and I dont require it to take 
any further action.  It remains open to Mr W to have his account unblocked and obtain his 
money by providing  alternative identification  to PFS and I recommend that he does this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN53645632Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5364563