K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that a car she acquired on a hire purchase agreement through  
First Response Finance Ltd isnt of satisfactory  quality. 
background
In May 2018, Miss L acquired a used car supplied by First Response through a hire 
purchase agreement.  The car was around 6 years old, had travelled around  46,000  miles 
and the cash price of the car was £12,995. Miss L part exchanged her old car as part of the 
sale for £3,000.  The remaining £9,995 was financed by the hire purchase agreement over a 
term of 54 months. 
Between July and October 2018  Miss L says she took her car back to the dealership   
where the sale took place and the finance  was arranged  four to five times due to recurring 
issues. She says the car would intermittently not start and there was also a problem with 
excessive noise from the car. She says during the first six months she was without the car 
for around  two months due to the number of repairs that were carried  out. 
She says she told the dealership she wanted to give the car back. But she says whilst she 
was on holiday the dealership carried out a further  repair against her wishes. She 
complained to First Response asking to give the car back and end the finance agreement. 
She said she no longer  felt comfortable driving  the car due the number of problems shed 
had with it. 
First Response said that it needed evidence to show the car was still faulty.  It told Miss L to 
take the car to a different garage  for an independent opinion. Miss L said the garage she 
took it to couldnt  find a fault because the dealership had recently  cleared all the fault codes 
from the car. Because  Miss L couldnt show the car still had a fault,  First Response didnt 
agree to allow her to return it. 
After the complaint was referred  to our service First Response agreed  to pay for an 
independent inspection to be carried out on the car. This inspection showed  that although 
there were three fault codes showing on the cars  on-board computer, the inspector thought 
the car was performing as expected. 
I sent Miss L and First Response my provisional decision on 26 July 2019.  I explained  why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is copied 
below:
Miss L acquired a car through a hire purchase  agreement. Under this type of agreement  
First Response is the supplier of the goods and is responsible for any complaints about  their 
quality. In deciding  whats fair and reasonable Ive taken  into consideration  amongst other 
things  the relevant law and in particular the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA implies a term into the hire purchase  agreement that the car should  be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would expect when taking into 
consideration the description of the goods,  the price paid and other relevant circumstances. 
I think some  of those relevant circumstances here include  (but arent limited to), the age of 
the car, the mileage and its general  overall  condition.  
Ref: DRN51737182The car was around  six years old and had done less than average  mileage in that time 
(around 46,000). It was also a relatively  expensive purchase at nearly  £13,000. So I think it 
would be reasonable to expect the car to be in good condition  albeit not to the same 
standard that a new car might have been.  
was the car of satisfactory  quality?  
Miss L says that within the first six to eight weeks she started  having  problems  with the car 
not starting as well as problem with excessive noise. She says the dealership has attempted 
to fix these problems  without success on numerous  occasions. But the dealership  disagrees  
and says Miss L only reported problems on two occasions which were unrelated to each 
other.
It said Miss L initially complained about a noise three months after taking possession  of the 
car. It said the noise  was minor and the car could still be driven. It said as a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to change the timing  chain and tensioner as well as the sprocket  brushes.  
It said after this Miss L reported an electrical problem. It said it inspected  the car and found 
this was due to water ingress  and it thought it was likely  caused  by Miss L using a jet wash  
at a car wash. It says it agreed to replace the damaged parts  free of charge as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
There is limited  evidence  available  to back up what either Miss L or the dealership has said 
about when and what repairs have been carried  out and what the faults  were.  But Miss L has 
been able to provide enough  to persuade me that what she says happened is likely to be a 
more accurate reflection of the issues the car had.
Miss L has been able to provide the job card for the electrical repair  the dealership  agreed  
that it carried out in early  October 2018.  There is no mention of water ingress but it does 
confirm what Miss L has said  the fault was that the car wouldnt start. So I think  there was 
a problem with the car not starting which needed  to be fixed. 
Miss L has also sent in copies of the text messages  she sent to the dealership between July 
and October 2018.  In July 2018 there are messages indicating a problem with the car. The 
dealerships messages to Miss L indicate  the issue is quite a complicated one to fix. I can 
see that in August 2018 the dealership  sent a message  to Miss L saying they had the car but 
it wasnt starting. They said they were looking to have the car repaired over the next few 
days. There was also a message in September 2018 which  appears to show there was a 
problem with the car not starting  again and the dealership arranged  to inspect the car. So Im 
satisfied the dealership had already had at least two attempts - prior to October  2018  - at a 
repair regarding the starting issue.
Im satisfied there was an intermittent fault with car not starting properly and I think  this fault 
meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. But as well as this its clear there was also an 
ongoing problem  with noise and the electrics. All of these issues  appeared soon after Miss L 
took possession  of the car prior to October  2018. And Ive not seen anything to make  me 
think any of the issues  were more likely to be caused by something Miss L did or due to 
normal in service wear. And given  the age, mileage, price paid and how long shed been  in 
possession of the car, I dont think a reasonable person would  expect to encounter  these 
types of intermittent faults.  For this reason I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied  to Miss L. 
putting things  right
Ref: DRN51737183The CRA sets out that in these types  of circumstances where the goods  arent  of satisfactory  
quality then the consumer has the right to a repair or replacement  from the supplier. If after 
that repair or replacement  the goods still arent of satisfactory quality, then the consumer has 
the right to a price  reduction or to reject  the goods. 
I can see that after at least two attempts at a repair for the same fault, Miss L told the 
dealership she wanted to reject the car. But despite this, the dealership completed a further 
repair - this was the October 2018 repair. So Miss L was unfairly prevented from exercising 
her consumer rights. However, First Response is right that the dealership wasnt  responsible 
for meeting Miss Ls consumer rights. But in the circumstances  of this case I dont think it 
would be fair for that to mean Miss L loses out. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why First Response feels it has been prevented from providing a suitable  
remedy for Miss L, as she didnt  ask them to get involved  until after the October  2018 repair.  
However, I dont think its likely  First Response is in any different position  now than it would 
have been had Miss L contacted them first rather than the dealership. 
I say this because  First Response has confirmed that it doesnt  have  its own approved 
network of repairers  or garages. So I think its more likely than not it would have  told Miss L 
to take the car back to the dealership in the first instance. This means  the circumstances 
would likely  have been the same. 
Ive thought carefully about whether First Response would have asked Miss L to go to an 
independent garage instead - as it did when Miss L complained in October 2018. But Im not 
persuaded by what First Response has said. 
This is because when Miss L complained  she had already exhausted the process with the 
dealership. So the next logical step was to ask her to go somewhere else to get a second 
opinion. That was a very different situation to what it would have been had she not raised 
her concerns  with the dealership first. Ive also considered  that in other  similar cases 
First Response has told consumers to go back to the selling dealership first. So for all these 
reasons I dont think First Responses position has been prejudiced  by Miss Ls actions. 
This means  that had Miss L contacted  First Response instead  of the garage, I think  Miss L 
would still be in the same position  she was in possession of a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and she had the right to reject  it. Therefore First Response  ought to now 
be responsible  for ensuring her consumer rights  are met regardless of the fact it wasnt  
involved earlier in the process. 
Ive also considered the fact the car appears  to now be fixed  and is arguably now of 
satisfactory quality. However,  had everything  gone  as it should Miss L would no longer have 
the car as she would have been allowed to reject  it after the first failed repair  (or at least  
when she first asked to reject). And she has understandably lost faith in the reliability of the 
car given  the number  of repeated problems she experienced. So I dont  think it would be fair 
to make her keep it just because it now appears  to have been fixed. 
Further, theres no guarantee  these issues have been permanently  fixed,  particularly as they 
have always been  intermittent in nature. Ive also considered that the independent inspection 
First Response arranged did still pick up fault codes on the on-board computer. This might  
suggest the repair may not have fully fixed the problem. 
Ref: DRN51737184For these reasons First Response should  now take back the car at no cost to Miss L and 
end the finance agreement. It should also refund her deposit of £3,000, adding 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
The CRA also sets out that when exercising a right to reject in these  circumstances the 
supplier can make a deduction for any use Miss L has had of the car. There isnt an exact 
formula for working out what  a fair deduction for use should be. So Ive thought  about  all the 
relevant circumstances in this case to decide what I think would be fair. 
Im aware that Miss L hasnt paid anything towards  the finance agreement  since  
January 2019.  But in that time she has been  using the car. And she also had use of the car  
although this was intermittent  between  May 2018  and December  2018.  
There appears to have been  around  six to eight  weeks in total (based on the text messages 
Miss L has sent us) where the car has been in for repair and she hasnt  been  able to use it. 
Its not clear if she had courtesy cars during all of this time. But it appears that at least for the 
majority of the time she did. And it seems where she didnt have  a courtesy car this was 
because she didnt  want or need one. So I dont think shes  been significantly disadvantaged 
during that time. 
Although she wasnt  disadvantaged,  I do think Miss L went  through  considerable 
inconvenience in taking her car back and forth to the dealership. First Response  werent  
involved at this stage,  but it did supply her with a car which wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
Therefore I think it should pay her compensation for the inconvenience she went  through. 
Taking into account the number of visits she made and the volume of contact she needed to 
have with the dealership, I think £250  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I also think First Response should  refund two of Miss Ls monthly repayments. This is 
because Im satisfied there  was approximately two months where  she hasnt had use of the 
car (or any courtesy car). This was between the end of October 2018 and beginning of 
December 2018.  
Ive based this on the mileage readings  from the repair at the beginning of October 2018 and 
the independent inspection in December 2018.  These show  only around 600 miles being 
covered in that time.  However, the MOT expired on the car at the end of October 2018 and 
Miss L didnt  renew it until early  December 2018 (a few days  after the inspection). So she 
wasnt legally able to drive it during that time. For this reason I think its more likely the 600 
miles was covered just before the MOT expired.  
It seems  the reason  Miss L didnt  get an MOT completed was because she was concerned 
about the reliability of the car. I dont think that was unreasonable, particularly due to the 
nature of the fault and that it was intermittent. After  the independent inspection was carried 
out I think she was left with little choice but to use the car - and therefore  get the MOT 
completed. This is because she couldnt demonstrate  there was still a fault and that is what 
First Response was insisting on seeing before agreeing to a rejection. So I dont think  her 
continued use of the car from this point demonstrates  her acceptance of the fix  instead 
I think it was the only reasonable thing she could do in the circumstances. 
From everything Ive seen  I dont  think Miss Ls use of the car has been impaired in any way 
since she had the MOT  completed in December 2018. So I think its fair she pays for each 
monthly payment  from January 2019 until she hands  the car back. 
Ref: DRN51737185As Miss L hasnt been paying towards  the agreement  since January 2019, shes likely to be 
in arrears. For this reason  I think its fair the refund of the two monthly repayments Ive set 
out above should be used  to offset any of those arrears rather  than being  paid directly  to 
Miss L. However, the refund of her deposit  should be paid directly  to her. This is so she can 
use it towards a new car and ensures  she isnt unfairly disadvantaged. 
While Miss L did have  a responsibility  to maintain  payments towards the hire purchase 
agreement, I can understand why she stopped paying given her concerns about the quality 
of the car. So I think its fair First Response removes any adverse data from her credit file. 
However, Miss L will still owe the arrears that have accrued so far on the agreement.  It 
would be fair to give her a reasonable period  of time to pay this back to First Response. 
I think 60 days is fair. If the arrears havent been  paid in this time then First Response can 
begin reporting adverse  data to the credit references agencies  after that time, if appropriate. 
Both Miss L and First Response accepted my provisional decision  and didnt have any 
further comments to make. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has made any further 
comments then I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional  
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct First Response Finance Ltd 
to:
1.Take back the car at no cost to Miss L.
2.End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay (other than any arrears  that 
have already accrued). 
3.Refund £3,000 representing  the deposit  Miss L paid, adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
4.Refund two monthly  repayments totalling £591.22 for the loss of use of the car.
5.Offset the refund  from (4) against  any arrears on the hire purchase agreement.
6.Remove any adverse  information from Miss Ls credit file.
7.Allow Miss L 60 days from the date of settlement to pay off any outstanding arrears.  
If the arrears arent paid by this date then First Response will be entitled  to start 
reporting adverse  data after this date, if appropriate.
8.Pay Miss L £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused.   
If First Response thinks tax should be deducted  from the interest element of my award, then 
it should provide  Miss L with a tax deduction  certificate so she can reclaim it, if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5173718