K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains on behalf of Mr S who is unhappy  that Aviva  Insurance Limited wont  pay 
his claim for water damage under his commercial policy  as he has no cover  under the policy 
for it.
background 
Mr S had bought  his policy  through a broker in 1993. At the time he had requested  cover  for 
fire only. The policy had renewed year on year with the same  cover.  In 2018  Mr S sought  to 
make a claim when his commercial property  suffered serious damage following a water leak. 
He was advised that he had no cover for that damage. Aviva  did suggest to Mr Ss broker 
that it would  consider making a payment as a goodwill gesture if Mr S submitted details of 
his claim and the cost of repair  to his property. When he later submitted those details Aviva 
said it wouldnt be paying any of the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that as the policy  only covered fire, Aviva 
wasnt obliged to pay the claim.  He recognised that Mr S would have had his expectations 
raised by Aviva saying  it would consider  a payment and for that reason proposed  that Aviva 
pay him £200. 
Mr M said that Mr S had been a customer of Avivas  for many  years and that hed never  
been informed  that he had only fire cover on his policy.  He had now taken  out insurance 
through his broker  for full cover  at a third of the price. He thought in the circumstances that 
Aviva should  cover  the claim.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S set up his policy in 1993. As it happens there  is still a paper copy  of his original  
proposal form from 1993 which makes clear  that the cover was for fire only.  The policy 
renewed every year by Aviva sending through a renewal notice. I have  seen a copy of the 
2009 renewal  which simply  sets out the cover and that it is for fire only. Mr S clearly asked 
for fire only cover originally but I have  no power to consider  a complaint about the original 
proposal. But the policy does seem to have renewed  every year without query.
So unfortunately as Aviva was never  asked  to provide cover for water damage,  it isnt 
obliged to provide that cover retrospectively. I appreciate however that Mr S would have 
been misled by Aviva saying it would consider making a goodwill payment on receipt of the 
claim details.  Although it made clear it wouldnt honour the claim it did imply that a payment 
would be made  based  on the costs of the claim.  
As Mr S was put to some inconvenience in providing  costings and was misled into believing 
that some  sort of his claim would be paid I think  its fair that Aviva pays him some 
compensation. Our investigator proposed a payment of £200 which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN52320382my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay to Mr S £200  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232038