K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms D complain  Great  Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined a claim 
they made for storm damage under their buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Great Lakes also includes its agents.
background
In July 2018 a retaining wall at Mr and Ms Ds property collapsed,  following a period of bad 
weather. Mr and Ms D made a claim under their buildings  insurance  policy  for the damage 
but the claim was declined.
Great Lakes said the damage wasnt covered under the policy as the weather conditions 
didnt meet the definition of storm under its policy. It said it thought the damage  was more 
likely to be caused by wear and tear.
Mr and Ms D complained to Great Lakes.  They  said the weather station  it had relied on was 
around 17 miles away from their property, so too far away to show what  the weather was like 
at their property. They  also provided news articles  which they thought supported  there had 
been a storm  where they live. Great Lakes didnt agree to change  its mind, so they brought 
their complaint to our service.
Our investigator said she didnt think the weather conditions supported that a storm had 
taken place, so she didnt think Great Lakes were unreasonable in declining the claim. She 
noted Mr and Ms Ds comments that the dry weather  followed by heavy rainfall had caused 
the collapse, but she didnt think that was enough  to be covered  under the policy.
Mr and Ms D didnt  agree, they thought the news articles hadnt  been considered.  They said 
their neighbours had confirmed there  was a storm and the wall had stood for a long time 
without any issue.
As Mr and Ms D didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer  
to any of the above questions is no  the claim  wont  succeed under this section.
Mr and Ms Ds policy defines a storm as an unusual weather event with high winds 
persistently over 55mph. We generally  use weather  station data to assess  the wind speeds 
at the time. The nearest weather station to Mr and Ms Ds home  shows peak wind gusts of 
Ref: DRN5512294244mph on the day Mr and Ms D said there  was a storm. So although  this does show there 
was bad weather,  it isnt extreme enough to be classed as a storm under  the policy. 
From what  Ive seen, the weather station is located  around 11 miles away from                   
Mr and Ms Ds property.  Theyve said its more like 17 miles,  but from what  Ive seen this is 
the distance to drive  between the two, not the actual distance. Even though  there is some 
distance between  the two, I havent seen anything which suggests there was more  localised 
weather which  would meet the definition  of storm. There are two news  articles  provided by 
Mr and Mrs D which they say show there was a storm.  The first is a local news  article  which  
mentions a thunderstorm in the area where  Mr and Ms D live. But a thunderstorm  doesnt  
mean the wind speeds would be sufficient for the weather to be classed as a storm under  
Mr and Ms Ds policy.
The news  article also references flight cancellations  from a major UK airport as a result  of 
the weather. But that airport is around 30 miles away from Mr and Ms Ds property; this is 
further away than the weather station so this doesnt persuade  me there  were  storm 
conditions in their area.  
I also dont find the second news article persuasive, as it comments  broadly on the weather 
in the UK. Its not specific enough  to Mr and Ms Ds property for me to say the weather 
station data shouldnt  be relied on.
Mr and Ms D have  also referenced a report from the Met office. This does suggest there was 
heavy rainfall in the general area where  Mr and Ms D live. And we might consider  
exceptionally high rainfall to be sufficient  to be classed as storm, even without storm winds 
reaching the required limit. But again  the weather station Ive looked at doesnt  show  the 
rainfall was sufficient to be classed as a storm on its own. 
I appreciate Mr and Ms Ds strength on feeling on this, but on balance I think  its more likely 
there werent  storm conditions that affected their property for the time the damage occurred. 
And as the answer to the first question is no, Great Lakes is entitled to decline the claim.
Even if we were to consider the conditions to be a storm, which I dont think they were, I still 
dont think the claim  would be covered. 
Great Lakes surveyor didnt think there were any weep holes in the wall, which would  have 
allowed moisture to escape. He also pointed to the age of the wall and its construction. He 
noted the wall was only one brick deep  with limited  foundations, so it was likely it had 
weakened over time. I havent seen anything to suggest Great Lakes are unreasonable to 
rely on what the surveyor has said.  So even though it might have been the poor weather  
that caused the wall to fall, I dont think its likely that this was the main  cause of the damage. 
So the claim still wouldnt succeed under the storm section of the policy.  And as there is no 
other part of the policy  that would cover this type of damage, Great  Lakes is entitled to 
decline the claim.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Ms D but for the reasons given above I 
dont think Great Lakes  needs to do anything differently.  
Ref: DRN55122943my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5512294