K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  (Lloyds)  isn't treating
them fairly when  meeting  a claim they made on their contents  insurance after a fire in their
home.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September. A copy  is attached and forms 
part of this decision. I said I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
In summary,  I thought  it fair for Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs Fs alternative accommodation 
costs (that is their rent) as described in the policy terms and conditions, for a period of six 
months. 
I also thought  Lloyds should  pay Mr and Mrs F £100 compensation for sending  an email 
about leaving their new property, which Mr and Mrs F found  upsetting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say they dont want to stay in the alternative accommodation any longer than 
they have to  but they havent found  anywhere  more suitable even though theyve looked. 
They say that although work has started on their old home its unlikely to be ready  until 
December at the earliest  12 months  after the fire. 
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  should pay the cost of their alternative property until their old home 
is ready for occupancy. They estimate this at about £21,000   just over the limit of £20,000  
specified in the policy terms and conditions.
Im not going  to ask Lloyds to pay for more than six months rental. Thats for two reasons. Mr 
and Mrs F havent said they intend to move back into the old property. Nor is it clear it will be 
available to rent  or when. We simply dont know the owners intentions.  I also think six 
months is a fair length of time for Mr and Mrs F to find somewhere else to rent if they didnt 
want to stay where they are. 
Lloyds said two main  things. It said by it paying Mr and Mrs F the full rental for their new 
accommodation they are being unjustly enriched. It went  on to explain  this was because  Mr 
and Mrs F would be living in what it calls free accommodation, and its gone on to explain 
why it thinks this is so. This is, essentially, the same  argument Lloyds has made throughout 
this complaint, although previously its called this betterment. It hasnt provided any new 
evidence to support  its position.
The simple  fact is that Mr and Mrs F bought a policy that says,  in summary, they can claim 
both the cost of their old rent and the new. Theres no mention of part payments. I also 
explained in my provisional decision  that, if the wording  of the policy  is open to interpretation, 
then thats Lloyds responsibility as writers of the policy.  And I noted  that Lloyds has, since 
selling this policy, clarified the wording.
Ref: DRN53712012Lloyds has asked that I explain why Ive not followed general legal principles when  reaching  
my decision.  I have taken  these principles into account, and Ive explained  how I reached my 
decision both above and in the attached  provisional decision. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome looking at the individual circumstances  particular  to this complaint.
Lloyds also says that it was obliged to send Mr and Mrs F a notice about their new tenancy 
coming to an end, so it shouldnt have to pay any compensation.  I dont accept that. It wasnt  
paying the rental (to either  a landlord or an agent) on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf.  Although  it had 
initially said it would do that, it changed its mind just before they were  to move  into the new 
accommodation. So I dont think its appropriate  for it to ask an agent to contact  
Mr and Mrs F at all.
Lloyds also said Mrs F is employed in the property industry so would have  known why the 
email was sent. I dont  think that makes any difference to my decision. The compensation 
was for the upset  Mr and Mrs F say the email caused, and I still think Lloyds should pay this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to
pay Mr and Mrs F the following  compensation:
 £8,970, which represents six monthly  rental  payments of £1,495  (and takes into account  
the £305 monthly contribution that Lloyds has already paid),  and covers the
first six months of Mr and Mrs F's alternative accommodation. To this sum should be added 
interest* at 8% simple per year,  from the date each rental payment was due to the date of 
settlement.
 £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  to take tax off 
any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs F. Should Mr and Mrs F request it, Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited should give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken 
off so they can reclaim  it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53712013Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Lloyds  Bank General Insurance  Limited (Lloyds) isn't treating
them fairly when meeting a claim they made on their contents insurance after a fire in their
home.
background
Mr and Mrs F lived in rented  accommodation.  In early December 2018 there was a fire in
their home,  and they had to move out. They held contents  insurance  with Lloyds, which
agreed it would meet their claim, and amongst other things pay for alternative
accommodation.
Mr and Mrs F initially stayed with friends, but in January  found somewhere to move to. They
asked if they had to make  a contribution towards the new rent and were told not. So it came
as a shock that they suddenly  had to find the rental a few days  before they were due to
move. They say that at the last minute Lloyds  said it would  only pay the difference  between
their old and new rents.  Without the guarantee of rental payments from an insurer, and with
time pressing,  Mr and Mrs F had to pay 6 months rent in advance  in order to secure the new
accommodation.
Mr and Mrs F complained that Lloyds  wasn't  treating  them fairly. They  said the terms and
conditions in their policy say Lloyds will pay both their old rent and the new - so Lloyds owes
them a substantial amount.  Lloyds didn't agree with that approach and said it had paid the
difference between the old and new rents, so it had been fair
Mr and Mrs F didn't agree  and brought their complaint  to us.
Our investigator initially thought  Lloyds  should pay for Mr and Mrs F's new rent in full. He
said that was because the wording of the policy said Lloyds would pay for any rent Mr and
Mrs F were responsible for and the rent on their alternative  accommodation. And he thought
it was fair to look at the wording used when Mr and Mrs F bought the policy, not the clarified
wording sent out part way through the year. He also thought Lloyds' payment of £150 for
giving Mr and Mrs F the wrong  information about  it paying the full cost of the new rent was
fair.
We were then sent some  evidence  that showed the tenancy agreement ended shortly after
the date of the fire. So Mr and Mrs F were no longer  legally responsible for that. Based  on
that, Lloyds now says its responsibility for alternative accommodation  ended  when the
original tenancy agreement ended. It says at that point the new accommodation ceased to
be "alternative". So it thinks it's only liable to pay one week's rent on the old flat (the time
between the fire and the end of the tenancy  agreement),  and need not contribute  to the cost
of the new accommodation at all. It says that means Mr and Mrs F have been overpaid by
£1,483, although it's not asked for this money back.
Our investigator changed his view on this complaint, saying that as Mr and Mrs F weren't
any longer  responsible for paying the old rent, he wasn't  going to ask Lloyds to do more  than
it already had - which  is pay the difference between the two rents for the six months of the
tenancy.
Mr and Mrs F remain unhappy about this. They believe the wording  of the policy entitles
them to receive the full cost of the new accommodation  without any deductions. And they
don't think the compensation  they were given reflects  the way they were left to fend for
themselves immediately  after the fire and had to find their own alternative accommodation.
Ref: DRN53712014More recently they've told us Lloyds sent them the equivalent of a "notice to quit" for their
new accommodation  in an email, which  they think shows how Lloyds has poorly  handled
their claim.
I've been  asked to decide  this complaint.
my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what's fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm intending to uphold this complaint and I'll explain why. As there are several points to this
complaint I'll deal with them  separately.
paying for alternative accommodation
Lloyds says it changed the wording about alternative accommodation in its policy sometime
after Mr and Mrs F bought it, and had sent the new wording to them before  the fire. I don't
think that's  relevant to this complaint. That's  because Lloyds says it's relied  on the terms and
conditions from the policy booklet in force when Mr and Mrs F bought the insurance.
I've also considered the wording in the policy. The relevant part of the policy says:
If your private residence  is made uninhabitable by any cause under  'What we cover" of your 
Contents - Private residence cover", we will pay for.
 Rent  you are responsible for paying: and
 The costs of similar  alternative accommodation for you, your family and your domestic pets
while you cannot live in your private  residence."
Lloyds says that once Mr and Mrs F stopped being responsible for the old rent (that is when
the tenancy agreement ended a week after the fire) then they were  no longer in "alternative"
accommodation. So Lloyds thinks its obligations to pay stopped at that point. I don't currently
agree with that approach. Mr and Mrs F have explained they had verbally  agreed with the
landlord to stay in the old property. It's commonplace for tenancies to be extended on this
basis. And Mr and Mrs F's reasons for wanting to stay in the old property for several years
are reasonable - it was mainly so their daughter's education wasn't disrupted.
On balance I'm persuaded they would have stayed in the old property if it hadn't been for the
fire. So I think they were  in alternative accommodation - both whilst they stayed  with friends
for about a month  and when they moved into the new property.
I currently think Lloyds should make a contribution towards the cost of the new property.
The wording in the policy says Lloyds  will pay for both the old and new property rentals.
There's no suggestion of paying a portion of one or the other. As Mr and Mrs F aren't paying
the old rental,  then I don't think Lloyds has to contribute towards this. That leaves the rental
for the new accommodation they had to move into.
Lloyds says that a general principle of this type of insurance policy is that it is meant to
indemnify a customer against losses. The court  case it's quoted  says, in summary, that this
means a claimant should  be no worse  and no better off when a claim is met than they were
before the insured event (in this case the fire). Lloyds says paying  the full cost of the new
accommodation would amount to "betterment'  - meaning  Mr and Mrs F are better  off than
they were before the fire (as effectively they don't have to pay any rent whilst in the
alternative accommodation).
I acknowledge this approach, but it isn't what the policy  says.  I've also, and I think  this is
important, taken into consideration that Lloyds is the expert  here: it drafted the terms and
Ref: DRN53712015conditions, and I think  it should abide by what they say.
That means I currently think Lloyds should pay the full cost of the alternative
accommodation. I don't  think this means it should pay this amount indefinitely. Mr and Mrs F
think they should  receive payment for the length of their initial rental  term - that's six months.
I think  that's a fair suggestion, and I'm inclined to ask Lloyds  to pay for the rent - less any
contribution it's already  made.  That means it should pay Mr and Mrs F an additional £1,495
per month  for six months (this takes into account the £305 per month that Lloyds has already
paid) together with interest to reflect the late payment of these amounts.
I do think Lloyds caused  Mr and Mrs F some distress when they discovered at the last
moment it wasn't going to pay the full amount of the new rent. It has acknowledged that and
paid them £150. I think that's reasonable.
other points
Mr and Mrs F also mentioned two other points:  that they were left to fend for themselves
immediately after the fire, and they've  recently received  an email about leaving the
temporary accommodation - which they said amounted to a "notice to quit".
I think  Lloyds was aware of Mr and Mrs F's unhappiness about the first point early  on in the
claim, although I can't see that it's responded to them about this. I've seen an email from
Mr F to Lloyds in early January where  he complains about the lack of support immediately
after the fire. Mr F has told us that when  called to say the fire had happened he was simply
advised to wait until after the weekend (the fire was on a Friday) to sort things out. Lloyds'
notes from the time do say that - but they also say Mr F said he and his family  were staying
with friends, and that Lloyds offered to pay any reasonable additional costs. So Mr and
Mrs F and their family weren't left unaided or without accommodation.
I do appreciate  how upsetting the fire was for the family,  but I don't  think Lloyds did much
wrong at this point. And, although I accept it took about a month for alternative
accommodation to be sorted out, I can't  say that's a particularly  long time, given Mr and
Mrs F wanted somewhere in a particular area. I'm not intending to uphold this part of
the complaint.
I've also seen an email from a letting agent to Mr and Mrs F about their tenancy  ending.
They say it was effectively a notice to quit sent late on a Friday. I agree  this wasn't an
appropriate email to send, especially given  it was Mr and Mrs F's tenancy  agreement, not
Lloyds. But it was an email  about something that wasn't due to happen  for another  two
months, so there  was no imminent threat to Mr and Mrs F's occupation of their alternative
accommodation. So although I think it would have caused some upset,  I also think  it was
something that could be sorted out fairly quickly. I'm minded to ask Lloyds to give Mr and
Mrs F an additional £100  for the inconvenience  this caused.
my provisional  decision
I'm intending to uphold this complaint and order Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited  to
pay Mr and Mrs F the following compensation:
 £8,970,  which represents six monthly rental payments of £1,495 (and takes into
account the £305 monthly contribution that Lloyds has already paid), and covers the
first six months of Mr and Mrs F's alternative accommodation. 
To this sum should be added  interest*  at 8% simple per year, from the date each
rental payment was due to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN53712016 £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds  Bank General  Insurance Limited to take tax off any 
interest it pays to Mr and Mrs F. Should Mr and Mrs F request it, Lloyds Bank General  Insurance 
Limited should give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so they can 
reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5371201