K822xComplaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  continued to apply  interest, 
fees and charges to her overdraft when  she was in financial  difficulty.
Background 
Mrs B complained about Lloyds changes to its pricing overdraft pricing structure  and said 
this led to her experiencing financial difficulty.  One of our adjudicators  looked  at this 
complaint and thought that Lloyds  rework  Mrs Bs account to remove  the effect of all the 
interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from the point that it was renewed in 
February 2016. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view and worked out that Mrs Bs outstanding  balance 
would reduce. But Mrs B disagreed. She thought that her outstanding debt should  be written 
off and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business  to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong  hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit  they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business continued  to allow a consumer to use a credit facility  which  it should  
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any further  interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit  
from the point the lender ought  to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were  paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, the amount  Mrs B has been left with an outstanding balance  even though  the 
credits shes made to the account have been factored in and shes  been refunded all of the 
interest, fees and charges applied. So while Mrs B has been left with a balance on her 
overdraft and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds  has done what  Id normally  expect it to 
do here.
That said,  we do look at each case individually and on its own particular  merits. And while 
we have a general  approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit  it shouldnt have (such as here),  we can and will tell it to do 
something different  and/or something  more if theres  a strong reason to say thats  what  
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances  of that individual case.
Ref: DRN54312472Mrs B says Lloyds should do something different here. She wants the remaining balance on 
her overdraft written off. She says Lloyds continued  to keep her in debt and she doesnt 
have the means  to pay back  the outstanding balance. 
Ive thought about what Mrs B has said. But all the interest, fees and charges Lloyds 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Mrs B is left with to 
repay are the funds  which she used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest,  
fees and charges have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. I 
think its perfectly fair and reasonable  to expect Mrs B to repay  these funds. And I dont think 
that Mrs Bs unhappiness  at having  a balance to repay, even after her complaint has been 
upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach  here.
I am mindful  of what Mrs B has said about her income. However, Lloyds  has agreed to set 
up an affordable payment  plan for her. And Lloyds will take into account what, if anything, 
Mrs B is able to repay when setting up this payment plan. Bearing  in mind all of this, Im 
satisfied that what  Lloyds has already agreed to do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
As this is the case, its up to Mrs B to decide  whether  she wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed  
to do to put things  right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5431247