K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc is pursuing him for a debt in relation to his current  
account after it told him that it had closed his account. 
background
In October  2015, Mr M opened a current account  with Bank of Scotland. He had an overdraft 
facility of £1,300.  Within  the first two days of the account  being opened, Mr M made 
payments amounting to £700.  He didnt pay any money into the account. 
The bank put a block on the account.  Mr M went into a branch of the bank  with identification 
in order to unblock the account. A fire alarm interrupted the matter  and Mr M says that when 
the discussion resumed,  the branch staff told him that his account was closed and that there  
was nothing the bank could do to help.
Whilst the bank  blocked  the account, it didnt withdraw  the overdraft. So, interest  and 
charges continued  to accrue. When the overdraft limit was exceeded, the bank pursued 
Mr M for repayment.  
Mr M didnt  think  it was fair that hed have to repay the money.  In response to Mr Ms 
complaint, the bank  refunded all of the interest and charges on the account  and said that if 
Mr M paid the outstanding  balance of £700  before it passed the account  to recoveries, hed 
avoid a default. Mr M didnt repay the debt and the bank reported a default,  backdated  to 
April 2016. 
Mr M wants the bank to adjust the account to show that it was closed when it told him that 
was the case,  ensure his credit file isnt affected  and compensate  him for his stress. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Bank  of Scotland need to do any more  than it had already  done 
as it had already  refunded interest  and charges, paid compensation of £200 and backdated 
the default to April 2016. He didnt think it was unreasonable  for the bank to ask for 
repayment of the money Mr M owed.   
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator and asked that an ombudsman  look at his complaint, 
so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for substantially same reasons. 
Its clear that Mr M tried to attend  to the matter in October 2015. I accept that the bank  told 
him that his account was closed. That wasnt strictly  true as his account was blocked, not 
closed. When mistakes  like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information was true. We look to see what effect the incorrect information had. 
Ref: DRN50446502As a result of the incorrect information, Mr M thought that his account was closed  and he 
didnt know how he could  repay what he owed. As the bank didnt withdraw  the overdraft, 
charges and interest continued to accrue.  As the bank didnt send Mr M statements, he 
didnt know about  that. In all the circumstances, its fair for the bank to write off the interest 
and charges. I see that its done  so. 
I dont think that it would be fair to ask the bank to write off the debt entirely.  Mr M had the 
use and benefit  of that money and is required to repay it. 
Bank of Scotland backdated  the default  to April 2016. Thats to Mr Ms advantage  as it 
means that the default will be removed from Mr Ms credit file sooner. Its also paid 
compensation of £200, which I think is fair. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
Bank of Scotland needs to do more than its already done. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5044650