K820x#14Complaint
Ms Bs unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) decision  to decline her claim made on a 
credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision of December 2019. It 
included the following:
Some years  ago, Ms B complained to us that the PPI policy  had been  mis-sold by a third 
party (the seller). We assessed that complaint  and our adjudicator  told Ms B the seller  was 
offering, among other  things, to compensate her for the premiums shed paid, pay back  any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the premium and re-work the 
credit card account taking  into account  that compensation.
Ms B agreed to contact UKI, as the insurer, separately about  making  an unemployment 
claim as shed become  a carer for her parents in January 2008. 
UKI assessed the available  evidence and decided to decline Ms Bs claim. Unhappy with its 
decision, Ms B complained to us.
Our adjudicator looked into the matter  and recommended the complaint be upheld.  As UKI 
didnt agree with the adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.    
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policy terms which,  under the unemployment head  of cover, say Ms B 
could claim:
If Your Work ends  due to the need  for You to become a Carer You will however be 
required to provide evidence to substantiate Your claim 
Carer was defined as:
Being completely without Work solely due to the need to care for an immediate 
family member that requires care for at least 25 hours a week (spouse, partner, 
parent, child)  and being registered with Your local Social Services Department  as a 
Carer (having undertaken a Community Care Assessment or Carers Assessment)  
that concludes  an immediate family  member  requires care for at least  25 hours per 
week.
The terms go on to explain what evidence Ms B needed to provide to support  such  a claim  
that is:
Ref: DRN57808882Evidence that You are required to care for an immediate family  member, a 
Community Care  Assessment  or Carers Assessment and that You were  not aware 
of the need for You to become a Carer at the Commencement Date.   
Its not in dispute  that the need for Ms B to become a carer wasnt  pre-existing so theres no 
need to consider that issue here.
What is in dispute, however, is whether Ms Bs provided enough evidence  to show she 
needed to become a carer and, if so, when the need arose. 
The matters  been complicated by the fact that the events in question primarily took place 
back in 2007 and 2008. And also because Ms B contacted the third party  seller of the policy  
in January 2008 to enquire  about  making  a claim at the time, rather  than UKI. So its been 
more difficult for Ms B to provide, and for UKI to obtain, the relevant evidence.  
I dont know for sure what the seller told Ms B about her claim. According to Ms B, it told her 
she couldnt claim for unemployment  as shed left work voluntarily  and it didnt tell her she 
could claim as a carer. Whether  or not the seller  correctly advised Ms B, I dont consider that 
UKI was responsible  for its actions.  I say that because the policy terms are clear  that, in the 
event of a claim, customers  needed to contact UKI in the first instance.  So I cant see that 
Ms B contacting the seller  rather than UKI was UKIs  fault. 
That said,  its been left to UKI to assess Ms Bs claim several years later. Using  the available  
evidence, it decided not to pay the claim as, although she stopped  working in December  
2007, she didnt  register for carers allowance until October 2009. It points out that she 
cancelled the policy on 1 October  2009.  
UKI recognises that Ms B says shed have claimed carers allowance sooner if shed known  
about it (Ill come back this issue later).  But it remained of the view that it required a certain 
amount of evidence in support of the claim before it could agree to pay any benefits. That 
included a report from a GP to clarify  the circumstances around the need for her to care for 
her parents.  
In this regard, Ms Bs provided a letter  from her parents GP dated  May 2019, in response  to 
questions put by UKI. The letter  goes  further  than previous  evidence  in shedding some light 
on the situation back in 2007  and 2008, so Ill quote  most of its contents below:
a)Fulltime care of at least  24 hours  a week was required from March  2008 for 
[Ms Bs] parents.
b)The onset  of her parents conditions requiring her care was November 2007, 
which is when [Ms B] moved to live with her parents.

d)As stated previously,  the date from which  this care was required was 
November 2007
Because of the nature of the GPs  letter, I asked one of our adjudicators  to put this to UKI for 
its comments. I wanted to know if there was anything in what the GP had said that might  
lead it to accept  the claim. UKI  who confirmed it hadnt seen the letter  previously  
maintained its decision  to decline the claim and gave  its reasons.
Ref: DRN57808883Ive considered the GP letter very carefully  and I think  UKIs continued concerns about the 
claim are justified.  For example, UKIs picked up on the GPs comment that, although  Ms Bs 
parents required  care from November 2007,  they didnt require care of 24 hours a week or 
more until March 2008. Thats at least two months after she stopped working  and some  time 
after she contacted  the seller to enquire  about  claiming.
As UKI points out, this suggests Ms Bs claim wasnt payable when she contacted the seller,  
irrespective of the reasons it might have given  her for the claim not being payable.  
There are other problems with Ms Bs claim too. For instance, the policy terms mean Ms Bs 
work must have ended due to the need for her to become a carer  for the claim  to be paid. As 
discussed, the term carers defined as, among other things, being a carer  for at least  25 
hours a week. But Ms B wasnt in work when, according to the GP, she might have become 
a carer as defined. And when she did stop working in December 2007, it seems  she didnt 
become a carer   as defined  for around  another two months.
Ive thought about the evidence that shows when Ms B received carers allowance to see if 
this suggests  she might have met the policy requirements of a carer any sooner than the 
letter from the GP does.  However, the evidence  Ive seen shows  she didnt start receiving  
the allowance until October 2009.  Thats almost two years after she stopped working. I 
understand why Ms B didnt claim carers  allowance until then, but it remains that this 
doesnt tend to support her claim on the policy in the circumstances.
Taking everything into account,  and based on the available  evidence, I dont believe UKIs 
acted unfairly in declining Ms Bs claim. I can see that Ms Bs had a difficult  time ever since  
her parents  conditions worsened, not least due to her own ill health,  and Im sorry to have to 
disappoint her in this way. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  not to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
UKI didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision. 
Ms B disagreed with the provisional decision. She said she had a number of concerns  about 
how UKI had gone about assessing  her claim and how it had shown little flexibility given she 
was trying to evidence events dating  back ten years  or more.  She said UKI was suggesting  
she cancelled the policy in October  2009  but she questioned whether this was because she 
didnt want it or because she was suffering ill health and was in financial hardship as a 
result.
Ms B also felt it was unfair that her claim was being  declined on the basis of the GP 
evidence she obtained in 2019  given their notes from a decade ago likely wouldnt have 
been as detailed as they are now. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57808884Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Ms Bs recent comments and the efforts shes  made overall in trying  to shed 
light on the events  of a decade or more ago. I realise it was a particularly difficult time for 
her.
Nevertheless, although things havent been  perfect, I do think UKIs  tried to give her a fair 
chance of proving her claim, bearing  in mind  the policy  terms and conditions.  And given that 
it wasnt at fault for Ms B initially  contacting the seller of the policy to make her claim rather  
than UKI as the terms directed  her to.
I recognise what Ms B says about  acting  differently  had she known what the requirements 
for claiming  as a carer were in 2007/2008.  But I cant  fairly expect UKI to pay the claim 
based on the available evidence  even allowing for the lengthy delay in the claim being 
brought. 
No doubt Ms Bs parents  GP has done  their best to provide a picture  of the circumstances 
leading to their respective  illnesses given the clinical  notes available.  But neither their 
comments nor the remaining evidence indicates  to me that Ms B met the relevant  policy  
requirements around the time in question.
Taking everything into account,  and based on the available  evidence, I still dont believe 
UKIs acted  unfairly  in declining  Ms Bs claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780888