K822xcomplaint
Ms R has complained about the suitability of the advice provided to her by 
Mattioli Woods  Plc (MW), trading as Taylor  Patterson. In particular she doesnt think  she 
should have been advised to purchase  annuities  and wasnt told about other options. And 
the fee she was charged for the advices wasnt what she was originally told.
background 
On 14 January 2013, MW sent an e mail to Ms R which set out updated information about 
one of her pensions. It also said that the quote  included its adviser charge of 1.5 % of the 
fund value net of tax free cash  (TFC).
In January 2013 MW advised Ms R to take benefits  from one of her pension  funds.  It 
recommended that she take the maximum pension  commencement lump sum (PCLS)  and 
use the balance  of the fund to purchase an enhanced life annuity.  It also recorded that the 
adviser charge  was 3% in relation to providing  the advice and dealing  with all the paperwork.
In October  2013 MW advised Ms R to take benefits from another  of her pensions.  It 
recommended that she take the maximum pension  commencement lump sum (PCLS)  and 
use the balance  of the fund to purchase an enhanced life annuity.  It also recorded that the 
adviser charge  was 3% in relation to providing  the advice and dealing  with all the paperwork.
The confidential retirement questionnaire completed  as part of the advice process, recorded 
Ms Rs attitude to investment risk as very cautious. This was described in summary as 
requiring a guaranteed income for life with no investment risk in retirement. It also recorded  
that she wanted to use the PCLS and income to pay down her mortgage.
Ms R subsequently complained to MW about  the advice she had been given. In summary 
she intended to reduce  her mortgage  but she didnt think that she had been adequately  
informed of the option where she could take her income at some point in the future. And 
there had been  an increase in the fee originally  quoted for providing the advice. Also the 
same flaws in the advice  were prevalent  when  she took benefits  from her other policy  in 
October 2013. She wanted a refund of the fees paid and the additional income tax she had 
paid on the annuity income.
MW didnt  uphold her complaint. In summary  it was satisfied that in October 2012 all 
retirement options including income drawdown  had been  discussed with Ms R. And the 
confidential retirement questionnaire  that was completed recorded that she had a very 
cautious attitude to risk and required a guaranteed income for life.
Ms Rs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. He asked Ms R about her 
financial position and motivation for taking benefits  from these  policies at the time the advice 
was given.
Ms R provided him with details of her savings and income at the time of the advice. She also 
said that she made lump  sum payments to her mortgage in 2014  and 2015 as she didnt 
want her TFC to dwindle away.  It was noted that she would add the lump sum to her savings 
with the intention to use it to pay off her mortgage which was what  she did. However  she 
didnt need the money  at that time as her son paid the majority of the mortgage. And she 
made overpayments  on her mortgage each month. £1,200  of the monthly  payments was 
made by her son. She had funds to make overpayments on her mortgage.
Ref: DRN51118942Our investigator upheld  the complaint. In summary he didnt think the advice was suitable as 
Ms R didnt have any need  for the extra income.  MW accepted the investigators  findings but 
it disagreed with the methodology  he said it should use to calculate whether Ms R had 
suffered a loss.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She didnt think  that all of her points of 
complaint had been looked into. In particular she didnt think  the fee issue had been  
considered. She had no contention with taking  her TFC but she had no requirement  to take 
any income. Alternatives werent explored  and her tax status wasnt considered.
The investigator responded to Ms R and summarised the points she felt hadnt been  
considered by him. This was that:
MW didnt discuss the available options  when  the advice was given.
The view hadnt taken  into account  the potential growth  the funds would have accrued if 
they hadnt been used  to buy annuities.
Her tax status wasnt considered.
One of her main  objectives was to release some  TFC. And the suggested redress  hadnt 
taken that into account.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was upholding the complaint. And I set out 
what MW needed to do to put things right. 
Ms R accepted my decision  and asked if MW were bound by the decision and had to follow  
the calculations.
MW wrote to me explaining why it disagreed with my methodology for putting  things right.  In 
particular it thought as the TFC had been  used to accelerate payment of the mortgage, 
allowance should  be made for this by rolling  up the TFC by the standard variable rate of a 
bank or building society. Mrs R should mitigate her loss by paying pension  contributions  
equal to the annuity  income. It also thought that more  conservative growth  assumptions  
should be used  in respect of the notional value  of Ms Rs funds if she hadnt taken benefits. 
And it queried whether interest  should be added to the unpaid contributions at step 11.
The investigator asked  Ms R what she had done  with her TFC and annuity income. Ms R 
confirmed the information she had previously  provided.
Having reviewed the information and arguments provided to me, I issued a second 
provisional decision. I explained  that I had taken into account  the comments made by MW in 
response to my first provisional decision.  I also said I thought  Ms R had mitigated her 
position by using the TFC to pay down  her mortgage. And I set out a revised methodology 
for calculating if any redress was due to Ms R.
In response, MW said it had nothing further to add and accepted the redress  methodology I 
had proposed. 
Mrs R provided  information to enable MW to carry out the calculation.  The calculation  was 
carried out and a copy sent to Ms R. She said she had reviewed  the prescribed basis  I had 
proposed and the calculations submitted by MW. She thought the calculations were  there  or 
thereabouts and said she agreed to settle on those terms.
Ref: DRN51118943my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that Ms Rs complaint  should be upheld. Ive set out my reasoning below.
MW advised Ms R. So it had an obligation  not just to transact  any requests from her. It also 
needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that any advice it gave was suitable  for her. The 
bases for its recommendations were set out in the recommendation  letters  it sent her in 
January 2013  and October 2013. Both letters recorded that she required the maximum 
PCLS and the balance of her pension funds were to be used to purchase an annuity.
The confidential retirement questionnaire from January 2013  recorded that she wanted to 
take maximum TFC and additional income  to pay down her mortgage. But it doesnt appear 
that MW considered Ms Rs financial circumstances at the time of the sales.  Its not provided 
any fact find or equivalent document which recorded  Ms Rs income and assets at the time it 
advised her. And even though it was only advising her on taking benefits from two of her 
pensions, I would have  expected it to have obtained information about her overall  financial 
position  so that it could  advise her about her objectives. And without such  information I fail 
to see how it could  properly advise her.
Ms R has provided our investigator with a lot of information. And following on from our 
investigators assessment  shes summarised  her main concerns, as she doesnt think  they 
have been properly addressed. I want to assure Ms R that Ive thought very carefully about 
what shes said.
Ms R has complained about the suitability of the advice she received when she took benefits 
from her two pensions. And in essence  she doesnt think she should  have  been  advised to 
take benefits in a format that provided with her an income she didnt need;  and on which she 
had to pay higher  rate tax. But when  reviewing Ms Rs complaint I needed to consider 
whether the advice as a whole was suitable, not just the way she was advised to take 
benefits.
Ive thought very carefully about Ms Rs circumstances at the time the advice was given and 
her rationale  for taking  retirement  benefits  from two of her pension policies. At the time she 
was advised to take retirement benefits  from her pension policies, she was still working and 
a higher rate tax payer.
As part of his investigations  our investigator asked  Ms R whether she had any other means 
or funds  to repay  her mortgage.  In response  she provided us with details of a savings 
account and cash  ISA that she says she had at the time of the advice. The savings account 
statement shes provided shows  that in December 2012 she had approximately £11,000. In 
September 2013 it shows a balance of approximately £15,000.
Ms R has also explained  that her son paid the mortgage. She also paid an additional £400 a 
month, which was in effect  an overpayment, as the payment due was just under £1,200  a 
month. And the records  shes provided  show that these  payments were being made before 
she took benefits from both of her pensions.
Our investigator also asked Ms R about lump  sum payments  she made in 2014 and 2015. 
Ms R explained that as she had the TFC she didnt want to dwindle  it away   so she added  
it to her savings to make lump sum payments against her mortgage.  She also said she didnt 
Ref: DRN51118944need the money for anything at that time as she had an established arrangement  with her 
son to accelerate repaying  the mortgage.
So with this background in mind, I need to think about whether Ms R should  have  been  
advised to take benefits  from her two pensions.  It seems to me that Ms R might have found  
the prospect of taking TFC from her pensions attractive. And shes  acknowledged that it was 
useful to have  it. But one of the key issues for me to think about is whether she had a need 
to take TFC at the time she was advised to do so by MW. Ive thought  carefully about Ms Rs 
argument that she wanted to take some  TFC and that options  other  than an annuity hadnt 
been discussed with her.
From what  Ive seen of Ms Rs circumstances  and what shes  told us I dont think she had a 
need to take benefits from either  of her pensions. She may have come  to MW with an 
objective to access  her TFC, but I dont  think it shouldve  advised her to do so. I say this 
because Ms R was already overpaying  her mortgage at the time of the initial advice. And if 
she had a desire to make  lump sum payments  in addition  to this, she had access to savings  
that she could  have used before accessing  her pensions.
By advising Ms R to take benefits from her two pensions, MW put Ms R in a position where 
she drew TFC and income that she didnt  need  at that time. Ms R was working and it doesnt 
appear that she had any immediate  intentions  of retiring. And the advice resulted in her 
paying higher  rate income tax on income that she didnt need.
So although  Ms R has said that she should  have been advised to consider  some form of 
drawdown arrangement  and not have taken  any income, for the reasons Ive explained 
I dont think she should have been  advised  to take any benefits at all. Also given  what shes  
told our investigator,  Im not persuaded that she would have taken benefits from her 
pensions if she had been properly advised. And as a result I dont think  another way of 
taking benefits  such as by way of a drawdown  plan would  have  been  appropriate.  Ms R is 
still working and from what Ive seen I dont think  its likely that she would have taken 
benefits from her pensions before age 65.
Ive also thought carefully about Ms Rs concerns about the amount MW charged her for the 
advice it gave her. I do agree with her that the e mail of 14 January 2013  referred  to a 1.5% 
adviser charge.  Its not clear why MW went on to charge Ms R 3% of the fund value for the 
advice in January  2013 and October 2013.  But Ive noted that both recommendation letters 
specifically refer to the adviser charge of 3%. And there  is a section on the letters signed by 
Ms R, where she confirms her agreement to the charge detailed  in the letter  to cover the 
advice. So I cant safely say that Ms R wasnt aware  that MW was charging 3% of the fund 
value for its advice  and that she didnt agree to this.
Ive taken into account the comments made by MW in response to the redress  proposed in 
my first provisional  decision. And Ive thought  about what  Ms R has said and the information 
provided by her. Im satisfied from what Ms R has told us that she has mitigated her position 
by using the TFC to pay down her mortgage. And she has reinvested the annuity income 
shes received into another pension. So, as she can continue to mitigate  her position moving 
forward, I think any calculation should be carried  out as at the date of calculation rather  than 
to age 65. As a result I think  the methodology I set out in my first provisional decision needs  
to be modified slightly to take into account  what Mrs R has done with her TFC and annuity  
income. So Ive set out a revised methodology below. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN51118945In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms R as close  to the position 
she would  be in now if she hadnt  been given unsuitable advice  by MW. If MW hadnt 
advised Ms R to take benefits from her two pension plans, I think  she would have left them  
with her existing pension provider. 
MW has calculated  if any redress  is due to Ms R, using the methodology below:
value of what Ms R will have received as at the date of calculation
1. Ms R has used the TFC from her pensions to make lump  sum payments against her 
mortgage. As a result  she will have saved  mortgage  interest by making  those payments. To 
reflect that saving,  the TFC taken by Mrs R should  be rolled up using the interest that 
applied to her mortgage  at the time she made  those lump sum payments. 
2. My understanding is that Ms R has paid the annuity payments from her pensions into a 
new pension. The value of the annuity  payments  she has received as at the date of my 
decision is the current value of those annuity  payments in her current  pension. An allowance 
can be made for any over or underpayment.
3. Ms R is a higher  rate tax payer and will have been able to claim higher rate tax relief  on 
her pension contributions.
notional value of what Ms R could have  received if she hadnt taken  benefits
4. Determine  the notional  value of Ms Rs pension funds at the date of calculation on the 
basis that no pension  benefits were taken from them  and contributions  continued to be 
paid into them at the same rate before  the pensions were stopped. The values should  be 
calculated by obtaining the notional  fund values (as at the date of my decision), of Ms Rs 
pension plans that she held with the provider they were  transferred from; if they had not 
been used to purchase her annuities. 
5. Calculate  25% of that notional fund,  representing  the TFC.
6. Work out the annuity rate (on an enhanced  basis if appropriate to take account  of 
Ms Rs state  of health)  available on the open  market as at the date of my decision, using 
Ms Rs anticipated retirement  age of 65.
7. Apply the annuity  rate in 6 to the fund value in 4 after a 25% deduction. This 
represents the notional annuity  income  Ms R might have received  at the date of 
calculation.
8. Calculate the difference  between the annuity income Ms R is currently receiving 
and the annuity in 7. Calculate the current capital cost of providing the difference in 
the annuity income.
9. Calculate the difference  in value between 5 and 1  this is the difference in the 
tax free cash that has / would have been  payable.
10. Add the value calculated in 8 to the amount calculated in 9.
11. From the figure calculated in 10, deduct the value of any higher rate tax 
reclaimed - as in 3 above.
Ref: DRN5111894612. The calculation  shows that a compensation payment  is due to Ms R in the sum 
of £21,641.64. Ive considered the calculation carried  out by MW. From what  Ive 
seen Im satisfied that it has carried out the calculation in line with the methodology 
set out above.
13. The compensation payment should  be paid into Ms Rs pension  plan. The 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
14. If the payment into the pension  isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, 
it should be paid directly to Ms R as a lump sum after making an appropriate deduction for 
any tax that would otherwise have been payable on the difference  between the annuities.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to uphold  Ms Rs complaint  about 
Mattioli Woods  Plc. I direct Mattioli  Woods Plc to pay Ms R £21,641.64  in accordance with 
the methodology set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5111894