K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr and Mrs E took out together  with Firstplus  
Financial Group Plc. They thought theyd repaid it, but are unhappy that Firstplus  says they 
still owe it money.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events using my own words. The reason Ive done  that, 
and also rounded  some of the monetary amounts involved, is to avoid the risk of identifying  
the consumers  when my decision  is published.
Mr and Mrs E have  told us they took the loan out in 2005; its possible they took out a loan in 
2005, but the credit agreement Firstplus has provided shows that the loan theyre 
complaining about started  in January 2007.  It was for £25,100 (plus PPI that was later 
removed following a separate complaint)  repayable   with interest - over fifteen years.  
According to Firstplus  historic records, during the summer of 2007, Mr and Mrs E incurred  
some fees for direct debit refusals, and started  paying by card. Arrears accrued and were  
cleared in 2009, but by 2010, Mr and Mrs E were  again struggling to meet  the monthly 
payments; they made occasional cash payments, but not the regular monthly  instalments. 
Mr and Mrs E made a claim on the PPI due to Mrs E being ill and off work. 
In 2012, a PPI mis-selling  complaint was made and redress  paid; Mr and Mrs E received a 
cheque for just over £500, and about  £1,200  was credited to the account. After various 
interest adjustments were made, the monthly  instalment went  from around £313  to just 
under £273.  At this point,  the account went  dormant.  In 2016,  Firstplus sold the debt to a 
new business that Ill call EB
In the spring of 2018, Mr and Mrs E were planning to sell their home  and contacted Firstplus 
after discovering that it still held a charge over their property. Firstplus  told them they still 
owed it money; the frozen balance - around  £17,500 - plus almost the same again in 
supressed interest.  This is where  Firstplus separates the interest off into a stand-alone 
account, and only charges  new interest on the underlying debt, and not on the interest  
already charged. It had done  this since 2008.
Mr and Mrs E complained, saying Mr Es parents had taken  out a loan of their own and 
repaid Firstplus in 2009. Mr and Mrs E received £100 and an apology  because an 
administrative mistake meant no one had been  in contact with them for a long time. Firstplus  
explained that only the arrears at the time had been  cleared in 2009, and the suppression of 
interest had benefitted  Mr and Mrs E because it removed the compounding effect. 
When the complaint  came  to us, Firstplus confirmed  the current  (in June 2018) outstanding 
debt to be just under  £16,790, and the simple interest on it as about £15,715. It said any 
discussion over a possible shortfall  settlement would need  to be with EB. Our investigator 
thought that was fair and didnt recommend  the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs E asked  for their complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  It came to me and 
I asked the investigator  to take a fresh look at the case. She did so and whilst her main 
conclusions remained unchanged, she told Firstplus that on further  reflection, she didnt 
think it fair that it continue  to apply interest on the debt when it was making no attempt to 
contact Mr and Mrs E.
Ref: DRN59224772The investigator recommended  that Firstplus recalculate the account  on the basis  that 
interest was stopped altogether - not just suppressed - from January 2013 until the date of 
transfer to EB. It should then send EB the difference between the actual and recalculated 
handover balances, for credit to the account. She also thought Firstplus should pay 
Mr and Mrs E £200 for their time and trouble.
Mr and Mrs E accepted the investigators revised  settlement recommendation; this time, 
however, Firstplus requested a review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive some  
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs E. Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator, and for much the same overall  reasons.
I would like to pick up on something Mr E said asking for a review by an ombudsman. He 
was concerned that his testimony about what happened would simply be ignored in favour of 
what Firstplus said. I assure him thats very much not the case; Ive given equal 
consideration to what both parties  have said. The difficulty here is that each party is saying 
very different things,  and I have to keep in mind these events go back  more than ten years.
Where, as here, the evidence  is contradictory, I ultimately have to decide whose testimony is 
the more reliable and most likely to reflect what happened. The evidence from Firstplus 
accounting and contact records has the benefit  of being contemporaneous; that is, the 
records of events were captured as they happened. That doesnt mean theyre  fool-proof;  
mistakes can always  happen. But unless theres  a compelling reason to do otherwise, Ill 
usually attach more  weight to those records than I will to the personal recollections of an 
individual at such a distance of time.
I dont mean  that unkindly towards Mr and Mrs E, and I certainly dont for one moment think  
theyve brought  their complaint in anything other than complete good faith. Im satisfied that 
what theyve told us is genuinely what they believe happened. The reality  is, however, that 
memories blur on the fine detail over time,  and thats  what I think has happened here. As far 
as the crux of this complaint is concerned, I dont find that Firstplus treated Mr and Mrs E 
unfairly (at least before January 2013) or that the debt passed on to EB wasnt  an accurate 
reflection of the outstanding balance on the loan account
But I agree  with the investigator that it wasnt fair treatment simply to continue adding 
interest to the debt when Firstplus was making no attempt to remind Mr and Mrs E they still 
owed it money. Ive considered Firstplus objections, but they dont  cause me to divert from 
the suggested outcome. I will make  one observation. Im not ordering Firstplus to make  the 
loan interest-free until 2018, but merely up to the date it transferred the debt to EB, which  
was in 2016. If Mr and Mrs E think theyre  entitled to further redress covering the period 
since the transfer, theyd need to complain separately to EB.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Firstplus Financial Group Plc to:
Ref: DRN59224773recalculate the balance handed over to EB in 2016 to reflect what it would have been if 
no interest had been charged at all from 1 January  2013 to the date of transfer, and send 
EB the difference between the actual and revised handover balance for credit  of the 
account; and
pay Mr and Mrs E £200 compensation.
I make  no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5922477