K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about whether Allan  Reece Associates (ARA), which  sold him a series  of 
mortgages in the past,  complied with a request  he made to be provided with his personal 
information.
background
Mr K took out several mortgages  on advice  from ARA several years ago. Unfortunately in 
recent years Mr K has been unwell and as a result has had financial difficulty. The lender of 
his residential mortgage  has taken action  against  him as a result, including  possession  
proceedings which went to court in 2017.
As part of his preparations  for defending the proceedings,  Mr K wrote to ARA asking for 
information it held about him. ARA replied saying  that the information asked for had been  
deleted under its data retention policies  due to the passage of time.  
Mr K has very strong views about  his situation and the justice  of the position  he finds  himself 
in. He has made a series  of complaints about  the lender, and he also believes that the 
mortgages were mis-sold  by ARA. He considers ARA to have committed  fraud by misleading 
him and the lender in the course  of the mortgage application, though he hasnt complained 
directly to ARA until this complaint.
When he did complain,  ARA sent him a detailed  final response setting out the history of the 
mortgage applications. Mr K questioned how it could have done  that when it claimed in 2017  
to have destroyed the relevant paperwork.
When Mr K complained to us, another ombudsman said that his complaint about the 
mortgage advice  he received was out of time,  since it took place more than six years ago  
and given his other  complaints over the years, Mr K ought to have realised he might  have  
cause for complaint against ARA as well. But the ombudsman said that we could consider a 
complaint about  whether ARA should have disclosed more information  in 2017, or whether  it 
had concealed  or destroyed  relevant evidence.
Our investigator looked into that aspect of that complaint, and its that which  has now come 
to me for a decision  to be made. ARA said that Mr K had sent a specific  request for 
particular documents,  which it no longer had  so it had fully and properly answered the 
question it was asked  at the time. It had retained other information, including  appointment 
diaries, some hand-written notes and a list of mortgages it had arranged  over the years.  But 
as Mr K hadnt asked  for those, it hadnt  disclosed them  and it didnt think they were 
disclosable in any case.
Our investigator said that while  Mr K had asked for examples of what he wanted  disclosed, it 
was clear from the wider  context that he was making a subject access request for all data 
ARA held about him. So ARA should have given  him copies of what it had. She said that she 
didnt think the failure  to disclose anything had caused Mr K any financial detriment. But he 
was upset to discover that not everything had been destroyed, and he hadnt been  given  it, 
after all. So she said it should pay him £100  compensation.
Neither party was happy with that. ARA said that Mr K and his representatives  were  pursuing 
a campaign against  it, blaming it for what were  in fact a combination  of misfortunes and 
Ref: DRN59761452Mr Ks own mismanagement of his finances. It offered to pay £100 to charity  if Mr K sent a 
letter of apology for the complaints he had made,  and the way they had been made.
And Mr K wasnt happy either. He said the failure  to disclose  further  information  had fatally 
prejudiced his court case against  the lender. He said the judge had strongly criticised ARA 
and the evidence would have shown  that it had committed fraud, which  would have meant 
the lender couldnt have taken possession proceedings against  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the decision made by the previous ombudsman setting out the scope 
of our investigation. I agree with what he said. I think Mr Ks complaints about the mortgage 
advice are out of time, since he was clearly aware that there  was a problem with the 
mortgages more  than three years before he complained to ARA about  events more than six 
years ago. And while I dont doubt  his health has made things very difficult, it hasnt 
prevented either him or his representatives making  other complaints during that time. I note 
a transcript of the court case from 2017  shows that Mr K had considered whether to take 
action against  ARA but had decided not to. 
I also agree  with the other ombudsman that we can consider a complaint about the 
disclosure request in 2017. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to consider  
whether or not there has been a technical breach of the Data Protection Act, any more than 
it is for us to make findings on other technical matters of law. But the law governs all 
financial services, and we are able  indeed, are required  to take the law into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I think  this is a matter  that falls 
within our jurisdiction, since the retention and disclosure of the records  of regulated 
mortgage advice  is a matter that arises out of the carrying on of regulated mortgage advice  
even where, as here, the disclosure request is some  years after the advice was given.
The letter Mr K sent ARA in 2017  said:
I request  that you supply information  relating to the above  mortgages taken out by 
me with [lender]  which I am entitled  to under the Data Protection  Act 1998, relating to 
emails, letters and all correspondence between [lender] from January 2004 to 
December 2008  and Allan Reece  Associates.
If you need any more  information from me, or a fee, please let me know as soon as 
possible.
A request for information under the Data Protection  Act 1998  should be responded to 
within 40 days.
ARAs reply said:
You are probably aware that in accordance with Principle 5 of the Data Protection 
Act we are required to retain personal data no longer than is necessary. As the 
reason for obtaining the data in question has long passed the data has been  securely  
disposed [of
A few days  later ARA wrote again:
Ref: DRN59761453In line with our policy for the disposal of information  no longer required the 
documentation in question was collected from our premises and destroyed by a 
specialist firm
ARA says it didnt  think  Mr K was making a formal subject access request and didnt treat it 
as one. It thought  he was making a specific request for particular  documents  (emails, letters  
and all correspondence) and those documents  had been destroyed.
But I think the content and context of Mr Ks letter, taken as a whole, is clear. He was asking 
for disclosure, under the Data Protection Act, of information held by ARA about  his mortgage 
applications. I think interpreting the letter as a request for only emails,  letters  and 
correspondence and nothing else was to take an unduly restrictive  approach.  So I think  ARA 
should have considered whether it held any information  about Mr K in any other form, and 
whether that should have been given to him too.
I can understand why Mr K was bemused and upset to receive a detailed  final response  to 
his complaint about mortgage advice a year after he was told that all documentation  had 
been destroyed. Thats clearly caused him some upset  though  I think  its important to bear 
in mind that its not the cause of his wider situation.  
ARA says that it has now disclosed everything it has. Mr K doesnt  accept  that. Thats not 
something I have the power to independently  verify  in the same way the Information  
Commissioner may be able to. But I do know that it is common  practice to destroy  a file 
some years  often six or so  after the conclusion of the matter it relates to. And I dont 
agree with Mr K that his relationship with ARA,  or ARAs obligation to retain documentation, 
runs for the life of the mortgage.
In another complaint against the lender, another ombudsman decided that ARA was acting 
as an independent broker advising Mr K and as his agent. It wasnt  representing, or an agent 
of, the lender. As that ombudsman found this as a fact, as its standard practice for this to be 
the case in mortgage broking, and as Ive seen no evidence to the contrary,  I accept that it 
was the case.  So the length of Mr Ks mortgage term is neither here nor there. It defines the 
length of his relationship with the lender   not his relationship with ARA.  Mr Ks relationship 
with ARA in respect  of this mortgage ended  when ARAs role  advising on and arranging it 
 ended. And it follows that theres  no ongoing obligation on ARA to retain Mr Ks information 
for the life of the mortgage.  Indeed,  its good  practice in data protection  to retain information 
for no longer than necessary.
So I accept  that, on balance, its likely that ARA has destroyed  its file. But, separately to 
Mr Ks file, it had some  old diaries  and a list of mortgages  it had arranged  which  also 
included information  about Mr K, as well as some hand-written notes. I think its likely that a 
court would conclude that, to the extent these items contained information  about Mr K as 
part of ARAs records, they are covered by the Act and so should  have been included in 
ARAs response to its subject access request.
However, I dont agree  with Mr K that this additional  information would have been likely to 
have made  any difference to the outcome of the court  case against the lender. I dont agree 
with his interpretation of the judges comments in the section of the transcript hes provided.  I 
think the judge was saying that if what Mr K was saying about ARAs  conduct was correct  he 
was surprised that Mr K hadnt either  tried to join ARA to the case  or called it to give 
evidence. But I dont  think the judge  concluded that what Mr K was saying  was in fact 
Ref: DRN59761454correct; he was simply commenting on how Mr K had chosen to present his case, not giving 
judgment on it, in the passage Ive been given.
And I note that the judge heard all the evidence  that Mr K wanted to present at the time, 
based on how Mr K chose to present his case.  Its not for me to comment  on the outcome of 
court proceedings, much less overturn them. But I dont think its in dispute that Mr K met 
with ARA, so I dont see what difference a diary  recording the appointment would have 
made. And its not in dispute that it arranged the mortgage, so its presence in a list of 
mortgages arranged  by ARA doesnt  take the case any further either. And the hand-written 
notes are very brief and vague and dont,  to my mind, deal at all with the points Mr K said he 
wanted to make and was expecting documentation from ARA to show.
So I dont  agree that the failure  to disclose made any difference to the outcome of the court  
case, or caused  Mr K any detriment. But the discovery of the existence  of this additional 
information, which he thought had been destroyed, caused him some distress.  I think  £100  is 
fair compensation for that.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Allan 
Reece Associates to pay Mr K £100. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision before 28 June  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5976145