K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1992 and the PPI in 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened more  than 20 years ago when 
the application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland  failed to make  Mr and Mrs D 
aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that they freely chose to take it. 
Without stronger  evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Bank  of Scotland acted 
wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest it was suitable  for them in their circumstances. And being unable to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr D (the person covered) received any redundancy pay, which would 
have put Mr and Mrs D in a more secure  financial position.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont have any information  about their circumstances to suggest  that full and 
clear information about the costs would have affected whether Mr and Mrs D took the 
PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been affected by any of these. Its likely 
Ref: DRN58378242Mr D was eligible for the policy, and Mr and Mrs D would be paying for it monthly, so 
they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5837824