complaint
Mr P complains about advice he got when he took out an interest only mortgage with 
Preferred Mortgages  Limited. He says he wasnt allowed to change his mortgage from 
interest only to repayment.  And hes unhappy  with fees hes had to pay.
background
Mr P took out an interest only mortgage  for £67,750 with Preferred Mortgages Limited in 
around August  2006 for a term of 25 years. Mr P wanted the mortgage to buy 50% of a flat 
from a housing association under  a shared ownership scheme. Interest was fixed  for the first 
two years.  It then changed to a variable rate that tracked LIBOR.  The mortgage was secured  
over Mr Ps share of the flat.
The mortgage offer suggests Mr P planned to repay the mortgage by selling the property. 
But Mr P says he wasnt advised about putting in place in a repayment vehicle to repay his 
mortgage when  the term ended in 2031.
When Mr P asked to convert the mortgage  from interest only to repayment, Preferred 
Mortgages wouldnt agree  to this. It says it had stopped lending by the time Mr P made  his 
request and didnt  have  suitably qualified staff that could assess  whether a repayment 
mortgage would be affordable for Mr P. He felt this was unfair.
In 2017 Mr P made a lump sum payment  to reduce his mortgage balance.  Hes unhappy 
Preferred Mortgages  charged him a £65 fee for this. And hes complained about other 
charges hes had to pay.
Mr P sold the flat in June  2018. Hes unhappy  he had to pay back a shortfall due to the 
property being  in negative equity and thinks he wouldve avoided this if Preferred  Mortgages  
had let him convert to a repayment mortgage.
Preferred Mortgages  didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint so he brought it to this service.  Our 
investigator felt Preferred  Mortgages shouldve considered Mr Ps request to move to a 
repayment mortgage but thought his application wouldnt have been agreed since a 
repayment mortgage wouldnt have been  affordable  for him. Mr P didnt accept our 
investigators view so I reviewed his complaint afresh and recently  issued a provisional 
decision, an extract of which  follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 advice
Mr Ps unhappy he wasnt  advised about putting  in a place a repayment  vehicle to pay off 
the capital at the end of the mortgage  term. But this service cant  consider advice about the 
sale of the mortgage  as a complaint against Preferred Mortgages. Mr P took out his 
mortgage on the advice of a broker and, as the mortgage offer explained, Preferred 
Mortgages wasnt responsible for that advice.
 request to switch to a repayment mortgage
Ref: DRN5252809Mr P says he bought  the flat as part of a plan to move up the property ladder. Unfortunately  
the flat lost value. Mr P lived there with his wife for several years  hoping the value would  
recover. But they had a family and outgrew the flat, so were  keen to move to a larger  
property.
Mr P sold the flat in 2018 with a shortfall of around  £4,000. He thinks  the shortfall  wouldve  
been less or avoided altogether if hed been allowed to switch  his mortgage to a repayment 
mortgage and pay off some of the capital.
Mr Ps carefully managed  his finances over the years,  with some help from his family,  so I can 
understand its disappointing  for him that things havent turned out as he hoped. I cant  hold 
Preferred Mortgages  responsible for what happened to the value of Mr Ps property due to 
conditions in the housing market and the policy changes Mr Ps explained  were  made by the 
housing association to rules about  letting out properties in his development. Nor can I assess  
whether, if Mr P been able to switch to a repayment mortgage as he wouldve liked, hed have 
been in a better financial position overall.
In considering Mr Ps complaint I need  to think about  what  happened when he asked 
Preferred Mortgages  to switch to a repayment  mortgage and whether it treated him fairly and 
in line with the mortgage regulations that applied at the time.
Mr P thinks he first asked Preferred Mortgages  if he could convert his mortgage to a 
repayment mortgage in 2012. I appreciate it can be difficult to remember things from several 
years ago and its helpful  to look at documents created at the time to get a clearer picture.  I 
can see from Preferred Mortgages notes it was discussing insurance  issues  with Mr P in
2012 but the first recorded conversation with him about switching his mortgage to repayment 
terms was in 2014. The notes are quite  detailed and from what Ive seen Id expect there to be 
a note about switching in 2012 if Mr P had raised it then. So I think its more  likely than
not Mr P first asked  about this in 2014.
Under the terms  of Mr Ps mortgage  contract, Preferred  Mortgages didnt have to agree to 
convert his mortgage to a repayment mortgage.  But a lender must  treat its customer fairly 
and consider reasonable requests a customer makes.  Preferred Mortgages  argues it
couldnt consider  Mr Ps request  because it had stopped writing  new mortgage business  and 
no longer employed  suitably qualified staff who could  assess applications. It still has 
obligations to treat existing customers fairly  even if its not seeking new ones. Preferred
Ref: DRN5252809Mortgages was authorised  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority to write new mortgage 
business during  the period Mr Ps complaint relates to and couldve considered  an 
application by Mr P if it chose to. I dont  think it was fair for Mr P potentially  to be 
disadvantaged because Preferred Mortgages had made a commercial  decision not to write  
any new mortgage business or to employ  staff who could assess applications. Preferred 
Mortgages shouldve  given reasonable consideration  to Mr Ps request and put in place  
arrangements to look at the application he wanted to make.
Bearing this in mind  Ive thought about  whats likely  to have happened  if Preferred 
Mortgages had considered an application by Mr P in 2014. Im not a mortgage underwriter 
so I can only consider this in broad terms.
At the time, mortgage  companies were  typically lending  roughly three  to four times a 
borrowers salary. In Mr Ps case, based on the information hes provided for his income in
2014, this wouldve been around £14,000. So, with an existing  mortgage  of loan of £67,750, 
Mr P had a significantly higher loan to income  ratio than the regulators  were recommending.
The rules  of mortgage regulation wouldve allowed Preferred Mortgages not to carry out a full 
affordability assessment  if changing from interest only to repayment  had otherwise been in 
Mr Ps best interests. But I think it wouldve been reasonable for Preferred  Mortgages  to think  
about affordability for Mr P. Switching his existing mortgage from interest only to repayment 
wouldve increased Mr Ps contractual monthly  mortgage  payments quite  significantly.  In my 
view it wouldnt  have been  in Mr Ps best interests to commit him to making  higher payments  
where doing so would be clearly unaffordable.
Preferred Mortgages  has estimated  the contractual monthly payment wouldve more than 
doubled from around £176  to around  £425 if Mr Ps mortgage had converted  to repayment  in
2014, an additional £249 a month. I think the increase couldve been more. The cost of 
repaying the capital  of £67,750 over the 19 years  remaining of the original term wouldve 
been around £3,565  a year. Interest on the capital wouldve been payable  in addition, albeit 
at a reducing amount  as the capital wouldve been reducing. In broad terms though,  Mr P 
wouldve needed to find around  an extra  £300 a month. From the income  and expenditure 
information Mr Ps provided  I dont think even Preferred Mortgages lower figure wouldve 
been affordable  for him.
Mr Ps argued his wifes  financial circumstances should be taken into consideration in 
assessing the affordability. But, broadly, the relevant mortgage  regulations  say only the 
borrowers income and expenditure  should  be considered.
So, even if Preferred Mortgages had considered  an application from Mr P, I think  its likely it 
wouldve refused  to switch his mortgage  from interest only to repayment. And I think  that 
wouldve been a fair and reasonable decision  for it to make. So while it should have 
considered his application, I dont think hes lost out because  it didnt.
 fees and charges
The mortgage offer made to Mr P said Preferred Mortgages would accept  one off payments 
to reduce the capital of the mortgage at any time during the mortgage term subject to a 
minimum amount of £2,000. Mr P made a lump sum payment of around £3,640 in August
2017. Mr Ps unhappy Preferred Mortgages raised  a charge of £65 when he did this.
Ref: DRN5252809K820x#14Preferred Mortgages  told Mr P a fee would be charged when he asked about making 
overpayments in 2015. And the tariff of fees and charges that applied  to Mr Ps mortgage 
from 2017 onwards,  which wouldve been sent to him, clearly  shows  a fee of £65 was 
payable for a partial repayment of the mortgage.
I think Preferred Mortgages  was entitled  to raise the charge as it was in line with the terms 
and conditions  of the mortgage and Mr P went ahead  with the lump sum payment 
knowing hed have  to pay it.
Mr Ps also unhappy he had to pay a fee when  he asked  Preferred  Mortgages  for 
information. I can see Mr P paid a fee of £10 in around January 2018 when he made a 
request for information under the Data Protection  Act. This fee was also clearly set out in the 
tariff of fees and charges.  And Preferred  Mortgages  was entitled to raise  the fee at the time.
I think both fees were  properly  charged in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage and were fair.
Bearing all the circumstances in mind for the reasons Ive explained I dont  intend  to uphold
Mr Ps complaint.
developments
Preferred Mortgages  hasnt made  any comments on my provisional decision.  
Mr P has made some further arguments.  He thinks Preferred Mortgages behaved 
unfairly by leaving  the mortgage market without warning him and giving him the 
chance to look into other  options for his mortgage.  And, in coming to my provisional  
decision, Mr P thinks I shouldve taken into account  that he couldve adjusted his 
financial arrangements  when he was looking to switch to a repayment mortgage, 
rather than basing  my decision on what wouldve been affordable  for him if Preferred 
Mortgages had considered his application. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  the arguments Mr Ps made 
since I issued my provisional decision.
I agree  with Mr P that Preferred Mortgages should  have considered an application 
from Mr P to move to a repayment mortgage  and it was unfair for it simply to say it had 
stopped writing new mortgage business. I explained my reasons in my provisional 
decision.
But I cant speculate about  how Mr P might have  tried to rearrange his finances if 
Preferred Mortgages  had considered an application or whether that wouldve made 
any difference to the outcome. I explained in my provisional decision why I think  it 
wouldve been reasonable for Preferred Mortgages  to consider whether a repayment 
mortgage would have been  affordable for Mr P. And I explained  why I thought  it 
wouldnt have been based on the information available. I havent  seen any new 
information that changes my mind about that.
Ref: DRN52528096Bearing everything in mind I see no reason  to change my decision. So, for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5252809