K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs B opened a store card account in a shop  in 2002. At the same  time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Bs card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase protection  insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said Mrs B 
suffered from asthma when she took the policy out. She wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful accident  or sickness claim under the policy if the claim resulted from that 
condition. And the adjudicator thought that if FICL had given Mrs B clear enough information 
about the restriction on claims for existing medical conditions, shed have decided not to take 
the PPI. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs B 
and to FICL  on 22 February 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Bs application  form for the store card.  It includes a section 
headed Protecting your Account.  It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover  (a form of PPI), and it continues  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premiums  until further  notice.  Theres a space to sign, with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant  required Account Cover. Mrs B signed specifically to indicate  
that she wished to take the cover, separately from where  she signed the overall form.
Taking everything into account,  I was satisfied that Mrs B would have realised that the 
PPI wasnt compulsory. And I thought she decided to take the cover,  knowing that she 
had a choice  although I could understand why she may no longer remember  this, so 
many years later.
FICL  didnt advise Mrs B to take out the policy. This meant it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it did need  to make  sure it gave  Mrs B enough information to enable 
her to decide for herself if she wanted  PPI, knowing what alternative means  shed have 
had of making her monthly repayments  if she was unable  to work.
Ref: DRN54382542I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But I thought  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looked as 
if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably  forgotten that now. Based 
on what shes told us about  her circumstances at the time, Mrs B was eligible for the 
policy.
Mrs Bs told us that shed have  been  entitled  to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. If shed made  a 
successful claim  on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would  have 
paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have 
done this each month until her credit agreement ended,  or she returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid - whichever  was the 
earliest. Whats more, it would have  paid out in addition  to any payments she received 
from her employer, including  any redundancy pay if she lost her job, allowing her to use 
those to cover other day-to-day expenses. 
I acknowledged that Mrs Bs told us she had critical illness cover and life insurance. But 
those are different  types of cover, and werent  intended to cover Mrs Bs monthly store  
card payments if she was off sick or if she lost her job. So I didnt think they meant that 
the PPI wouldnt  have been  useful  for Mrs B.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would  have been  clear 
from the application form that there  would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Id 
seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs B. And as she was 
paying for it monthly, she could  have cancelled it without any further cost if her situation 
changed.
I acknowledged that Mrs Bs told us she suffered from asthma when she applied for the 
policy. But the condition had been  diagnosed around six years before she applied for the 
PPI. And Mrs Bs told us that she was taking  medication for it, and has only had a week 
off in total due her asthma  since 1996. 
To claim for accident or sickness under the policy, Mrs B would have  had to be off sick 
for at least 30 consecutive days.  I thought  it was unlikely  that shed have expected to 
need to take that long off work for her asthma,  or any condition  resulting from it. And she 
could potentially have claimed successfully if shed lost her job, or if shed been off sick 
with any condition that didnt result from her asthma.  So I wasnt convinced,  on balance,  
that it was likely that Mrs Bs asthma  meant that shed have made  a different decision 
about taking  the PPI cover  if shed been  given better  information  about the exclusions 
relating to existing medical conditions. And she didnt  appear to have been affected  by 
any of the other main things  the policy didnt  cover.
Id explained  above that I was satisfied that Mrs B chose to take out the PPI - so it looked 
as if she wanted  this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten  that now. And 
for the reasons Id set out, I wasnt convinced that better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  it out. So I didnt think shed lost out as a result of anything  that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
So based on what Id seen so far, I was planning not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN54382543further submissions
Neither Mrs B nor FICL has provided any comments on my provisional decision or any 
further information for me to consider.  The time for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5438254