K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs K says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs K didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because  Ive been  given a copy  of the credit card application which  was 
completed at the time and this includes a section about PPI. In this section  there is a box to 
tick if PPI is required and I can see that this box has been ticked. If Mrs K didnt want  to take 
out the PPI she could have left the box blank. Mrs K has signed the form which  suggests  she 
agreed with everything  that had been  entered. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs K so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she appears to have been eligible  for the cover and it seems  that she wasnt  affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs K has told us that she was self-employed  at the time of the sale and so she doesnt think 
she should have  been sold this insurance policy. But having checked  the policy terms and 
conditions I can see that cover is provided  for self-employed people  and it doesnt appear 
that it would  have been any more  difficult for her to claim than if she had been  employed on 
a permanent contract.  So this doesnt make  a difference to my outcome.
And she seems to have  had a need  for the cover.  As Mrs K was self-employed she has told 
us she wouldnt receive any sick pay if she was too ill to work, although she did have some 
savings she could have  used. But this policy would have paid 10% of her monthly  balance  
for up to 12 months if she wasnt  working through accident, sickness  or unemployment. This 
would have enabled her to protect her savings  for use elsewhere or use them  to cover other 
essential living expenses. So I think this policy could have provided a useful benefit to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she ticked the box on the application form to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because:  
Ref: DRN55549222Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5554922