K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance policy claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
Mr R was the sole policyholder for the insurance and hes the correct  complainant.  He is 
represented by his partner in his complaint.  For simplicity Ill refer to Mr R only.
background
Mr R had accident only insurance for his dog. The insurer was Red Sands. Sadly, his and 
his partners dog was killed when he was attacked by other dogs. 
Mr R complains that Red Sands told him he couldnt  claim for a death of pet payment under 
the policy even  though  his dog was killed in an accident.
Red Sands  said the policy  didnt give a benefit  payment  for death of a pet. It told Mr R that 
vet fees for treatment  were covered but it hasnt  received any claim for vet treatment.
Our investigator thought Red Sands acted fairly.
Mr R disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He said his dog was killed in an 
accident resulting  in a man being  convicted. He had to take his dog to the vet and pay for 
cremation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr Rs dog was killed  in such shocking  circumstances which was so traumatic  for 
him and his partner.
But I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably  declined  his claim and I think 
it did. I dont uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy  was accident only cover. Mr Rs asked us if Red Sands should  pay the death of 
pet payment or anything else under the policy.
The policy is clear that it covers vet fees for treatment  due to an accident.  Red Sands told 
Mr R that it would cover vet fees for treatment  caused by an accident. But I understand 
because his dog was killed there  were  no fees for treatment. 
Mr Rs told us he paid the vet cremation costs but the policy  excludes  cover for cremation 
costs.
The policy cover summary  is clear that death of pet payment isnt included  in the accident 
only policy. So Red Sands acted fairly  and reasonably in not making a death of pet payment.
Although Mr Rs dog was killed in an accident, for the reasons above Red Sands acted fairly 
and reasonably in not making  any payment under the policy.  
Ref: DRN56239492Mr R said he phoned Red Sands to tell it his dog had been killed and it just cancelled the 
policy. Red Sands acted reasonably in doing  so and Ive seen a letter from Red Sands that it 
refunded the proportion  of the annual premium  to Mr R, which  was fair to do.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5623949