K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Ms S say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
Mr M and Ms S applied  for the MPPI  in a meeting with Santander.
Although the mortgage was held in joint names,  the MPPI was taken to cover Ms S only. 
Our adjudicator initially upheld  the complaint because Ms S had a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time the MPPI was sold. Santander  disagreed because Ms S couldnt  
provide evidence of that condition.
Another adjudicator  looked at the complaint  and didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld,  
so he no longer recommended that Santander  should refund what  Mr M and Ms S had paid 
for the MPPI. Mr M and Ms S disagreed with that adjudicator.
I thought the complaint should  be upheld so in fairness to everyone  I Issued a provisional 
decision in March 2019. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. Ive attached an extract of my provisional  decision to this decision,  so I wont  
repeat that information here.  
Mr M and Ms S agreed with my findings but Santander  didnt agree. It said that it didnt 
agree it was unreasonable to request documentary evidence of Ms Ss medical  condition,  
given the nature of it. Santander did however agree that Ms S would have required ongoing 
follow up medical visits.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the exclusion I mentioned in my provisional decision only wouldnt have  applied  if Ms S 
hadnt seen a doctor for 24 months,  I still think it did apply  to her. And Santander has agreed  
that Ms S would  most likely have had follow  up medical  visits.
So even without  documentary evidence Im satisfied that Ms S would  most  likely have seen 
a doctor  at least once,  if not numerous times in any 24 month period whilst covered by the 
MPPI. And for that reason, I think the pre-existing medical condition exclusion applied  to her, 
so the recommendation Santander made was unsuitable. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN50211232putting things right
Santander should put Mr M and Ms S in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
the MPPI  policy. The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr M and Ms S the amount they paid each  month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year
If Mr M and Ms S made a successful  claim under  the MPPI policy,  Santander  can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr M and Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Santander  UK Plc to put things right by doing  what  Ive 
said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50211233EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED MARCH 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr M and Ms Ss case. 
I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the policy  to Mr M and Ms S but I dont think it was right for them.
Ms S has shared  personal medical information  with this service  about  her medical condition.  She was 
diagnosed with a serious illness in 2000, which she says she had to take around six weeks off work 
for. It also wouldve required ongoing follow-up medical visits for a substantial amount of time,  if not 
forever.
Our adjudicator shared  this information with Santander.  He explained that one of the policys 
exclusions meant  that Ms M wouldnt have been able to claim under  the MPPI policy for anything 
related to this medical  issue, and he didnt  think Mr M and Ms S wouldve  taken  the policy if theyd 
known about that.
Santander didnt agree. It said that the exclusion Ive mentioned above wouldnt have applied if Ms S 
hadnt seen a doctor,  and had been symptom-free  for 24 months at the point of making an accident or 
sickness claim.
Ms S explained that she saw her doctor approximately  every six months for follow up visits, and these 
continued until at least 2013. And given  the gravity of Ms Ss medical  issue, I think thats a perfectly 
credible expectation.
Santander refused to accept Ms Ms word without her providing evidence  of those  medical 
appointments. I find it unreasonable for Santander to require this  especially  as the situation dates  
back around 15 years.  A brief search of the internet wouldve confirmed approximate treatment and 
follow-up plans for the type of issue Ms S faced, and this coupled with the time that has passed, 
makes me think its both unreasonable and unhelpful  for Santander to approach this issue in the 
insensitive way that it has.
I dont think Mr M and Ms S wouldve bought the policy  if Santander had made it clear that it wasnt 
right for Ms S. So, I think Mr M and Ms S have lost out because  of what Santander did wrong.  
Ref: DRN5021123