K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan taken out in 2001. The plan 
included payment protection insurance (PPI), life cover and critical illness  cover. Mr S says 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the policy.
background
I sent Mr S and Halifax a provisional decision to explain why I thought I should uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint in part. I said Id consider anything else Mr S and Halifax  wanted to give me by 
1 March 2019. I said if Halifax and Mr S replied sooner I could issue my decision sooner. 
Halifax and Mr S did reply sooner. Mr S replied with more  points.  Halifax  had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr S so it had to do more and check the policy was right 
for him. Ive assessed the complaint on that basis. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. Ill explain  why.
Theres very little from the time to show exactly how Halifax  presented the policy  to Mr S at 
the meeting. But from what we know  of how Halifax normally  sold policies like Mr Ss, I think 
Halifax would normally make it clear  the policy didnt have to be taken.  And Halifax would 
normally give customers like Mr S a choice about taking it.
Mr S says this didnt happen in his case.  He has told us Halifax  didnt offer him a chance to 
discuss options. Ive thought about this carefully. But apart  from Mr Ss recollections, I dont 
have anything else to suggest that Halifax didnt give Mr S a choice about the policy like I 
think it normally would. And Mr Ss recollections  are of an event that took place some years  
earlier. Also Mr Ss mortgage application  had a separate  section for the policy with a space  
for Mr S to sign in if he wanted the cover.  Mr S signed there to say he would like the policy.
Taking all this into account, on balance I havent seen enough to make  me think that Halifax 
didnt make it clear the policy was optional before adding it to Mr Ss mortgage  or that Mr S 
didnt agree to this. But I acknowledge that this isnt how Mr S recalls the sale.
Mr S was single with no dependents. Based on what Ive seen, I agree with Halifax and Mr S 
about Mr S not needing the life cover.  So Halifax should refund what Mr S paid for it.
Mr S says he didnt need critical illness cover  because he was entitled to full pay for at least 
12 months if he were diagnosed with a serious  illness. But the critical illness cover wasnt 
there to cover  Mr Ss payments for a time. It was there to pay off his mortgage if he suffered 
critical illness and made  a successful claim. So even if Mr S did have means to cover  his 
mortgage payments  for a time, this wouldnt make me think that he didnt have a need for 
critical illness cover. Mr S has said his parents couldve  paid off his whole mortgage. But 
other peoples  circumstances and ability to help can change. So I dont think the possibility  of 
Ref: DRN56138942Mr S receiving help from his parents made it wrong  for Halifax  to recommend  cover in case  
of critical illness.  
I havent seen  anything else to make me think Mr S hadnt  any need for critical illness cover. 
But the cover he took was set up on a level basis. His mortgage was on a repayment basis, 
so it would reduce  over time. So I think Mr S shouldve been sold critical illness  cover  on a 
reducing basis to match  his mortgage  borrowing. And I think Halifax should refund to Mr S 
any difference between what he paid for the level cover and what he wouldve paid Halifax  
for decreasing cover.
In saying this Ive taken into account  what Mr S has said about how he mightve shopped 
around for cheaper  critical illness cover if hed wanted it. But if turning down Halifaxs cover 
and looking  for cover  elsewhere  was what Mr S had wanted to do, Halifax  didnt do anything 
to stop him doing that, based on what Ive seen.
Mr S says he didnt need accident and sickness cover because of the twelve months or more 
of full pay hes told us he was entitled to from his employer. He also says that, as well as 
having parents  who could  help, he didnt need  the redundancy cover because  of savings he 
had - and hed put a big deposit  down for the mortgage. Ive thought  about  all this carefully. 
But I still think Mr S needed the cover  and the cover  was right for him. Ill explain why.
At the time he took the mortgage  Mr S had been  with his employer for less than two years.  
So, even taking into account the nature of the employer Mr S was working for, Id find it 
surprising if Mr S was entitled  to sick pay for twelve months or more at full pay. So Im not 
persuaded Mr Ss entitlement was as generous as that. The PPI benefits wouldve been paid 
out on top any work sick pay Mr S received. It could be paid out for up to two years for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And by helping Mr S with his mortgage payments, the 
policy benefit would help protect  Mr Ss savings at what could be a difficult time if hed 
suffered redundancy or was too sick to work.
From what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  Mr S wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And the PPI was protection  for a mortgage - a long 
term liability secured on Mr Ss home. Mr S doesnt  recall Halifax  asking  any medical 
questions. But, from what hes told us, he didnt have any existing medical  issues at the time. 
And Ive taken into account  what he has said about his parents help. But the PPI meant hed 
be less reliant on their help if something  went wrong.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But from what Ive seen I think Mr S chose to take the cover.  And, for the reasons Ive 
given, it seems like it would  have  been  useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  
like the cover was affordable. With all Ive said above in mind, taking everything into account 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr S off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But, for the PPI commission, Halifax has already made an offer to give Mr S 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think Halifax  needs to do anything more  for the PPI.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr S this once Ive issued  my final decision.
Ive thought about all Mr Ss points, including what hes said about feeling  that he should get 
back everything he paid for the critical illness cover and about paying interest on the capital. 
But I think Mr S did have  a need for critical illness cover that was in line with his borrowing. 
And although payments for his plan may have been  included with his mortgage payment, 
Ref: DRN56138943this doesnt mean it was funded by borrowing  or that he was charged extra  interest because 
of the plan. Mr Ss plan payments didnt  attract interest and he didnt incur  more interest cost 
as a result  of taking  out the plan.  So these points dont change my decision.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said about his health and about how things could 
have been sorted out sooner. But Halifax offered  to do what  Ive said it should do for the life 
cover and critical illness cover some time ago. Halifaxs PPI offer was made later, but this 
was after regulatory  rules were made that werent in place when Mr S first complained.  Mr S 
wanted Halifax to do more - on the PPI policy and the critical illness  cover too  but I dont 
think it did need to do more. Taking this into account, I dont think  Halifax  has unduly delayed 
the conclusion  of Mr Ss complaint overall. With all this in mind Im satisfied that what  Halifax 
has agreed to do, and the award Ive made, is a fair and reasonable way to compensate 
Mr S and put things  right in the circumstances  of his particular case.
what the business needs  to do for the life and critical illness cover
Halifax should pay back to Mr S what he paid for the life cover. Halifax  should  also pay back 
to Mr S any difference  between what he paid for critical illness  cover and what  he wouldve 
paid if that cover had been set up instead on a decreasing basis  to match  his mortgage. In 
both cases Halifax should also pay Mr S simple interest at 8%* per year on each payment 
from when he paid it until when he gets it back.  Halifax can deduct from this redress  any 
refund it has already made of any part of these premiums.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back what Mr S paid for life cover  and the extra 
he paid for critical illness cover on a level instead of decreasing basis and pay interest on 
this as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5613894