K820x#14complaint
S is a company,  represented  in bringing this complaint  by its director, Mr F. S complains that 
Metro Bank  Plc restricted access  to its accounts, before closing them  and returning  
payments to their source. It complains too that the bank hasnt explained why it acted in the 
way it did. 
background
In or about March  2018 S received an enquiry  from another company, K, about the supply of 
products for use in food production. S sourced and paid for a large shipment, and K in turn 
arranged for payment to S. Payments totalling  nearly £400,000 were  made  to Ss accounts 
with Metro Bank. It held a current account,  a savings  account and a foreign currency  
account. Metro Bank sought information about the payments from Mr F, but returned them to 
the sending party. In the meantime, it blocked Ss accounts and subsequently gave Mr F two 
months notice that it intended to close them. 
Metro Bank  lifted the blocks around six weeks after they were placed and closed the 
accounts about a month  after that. 
Mr F complained on behalf of S about  the banks  actions. He said too that the initial letter  he 
received about  closing  the accounts had referred, incorrectly, to his personal accounts,  not 
his business accounts. Metro Bank said it had acted  correctly,  and so Mr F referred Ss 
complaint to this service,  where one of our investigators considered  it. 
Our investigator agreed with Metro Bank that it had been entitled to take the action it did. He 
considered too the manner in which Metro Bank  had carried out the actions it did, but didnt 
think, for example, there had been any unnecessary delays. He noted that Metro  Bank  had 
wrongly referred to personal accounts,  but didnt believe that had changed  the overall 
position. 
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review Ss 
complaint.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Theres little that I can usefully add to what the investigator has already said here. 
Metro Bank  was within its rights to refuse  payments  both into and from Ss accounts   if it 
felt they needed further  clarification. And it had to make certain checks to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. 
Metro Bank  was also within its rights to suspend the accounts while  it carried out those 
checks. 
There was no obligation on the bank to continue to provide S with account facilities, and Im 
satisfied it gave reasonable notice  before closing the accounts.  I agree with the investigator 
that, while the bank wrongly  referred  to personal account terms, this had no real effect on 
the overall situation. 
Ref: DRN54718252I appreciate of course that Metro Banks  actions caused both S and Mr F real inconvenience.  
It wouldnt however be appropriate  to make  an award of compensation for that, since  I dont 
believe that Metro  Bank  acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Metro Bank Plc to take 
any further steps to resolve Ss complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask S (through  Mr F) to accept or reject  my decision before 
30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5471825