K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  how Santander UK Plc (the bank)  has treated them 
while theyve  been in financial difficulties. 
background
Mr and Mrs F say the bank should have treated them more sympathetically and given them 
more help when  they were  struggling  financially. Instead they say the bank removed their 
overdraft without warning  and unfairly caused  Mrs F, who doesnt  use the account, to have  a 
bad mark on her credit file. 
The bank has appointed debt collectors.  Mr and Mrs F say they could have agreed to a 
reasonable payment plan if the bank had been  more amenable.
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  It said it had even gone beyond  its 
established policy in order to try and help Mr and Mrs F. However, Mr and Mrs F hadnt 
adhered to the terms of the Monthly  Reduced Overdrafts that the bank had agreed to in 
order to help them, nor had they contacted the bank to discuss  their options as the bank had 
advised.
Our investigator issued  two successive sets of findings. He didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint. In brief, he concluded  the bank had treated Mr and Mrs F reasonably  in all the 
circumstances and that the chief  reason the overdraft had been  withdrawn  was that 
Mr and Mrs F had failed  to keep to the terms of the arrangements.  
The investigator also found that the bank had a duty to report the facts to credit  reference 
agencies and as Mrs F was a party to the account in question, the bank had to report her 
name as such to credit reference agencies. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions. Their main  points were:
It wasnt sympathetic behaviour by the bank  to remove the overdraft facility without 
any notice.
If the bank found it difficult  to contact Mr F regarding the account, it should  have 
contacted Mrs F as the joint account holder.
There was evidence  of a lack of coordination between departments at the bank that 
were dealing  with Mr Fs situation.
If the bank had behaved  better,  it would have been possible to come up with an 
acceptable repayment plan without defaulting  the account.
There was evidence  of a greater effort by Mr F to contact  the bank about his situation 
than the bank had given  credit for. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear of Mr and Mrs Fs great  difficulties, which  have been financial and personal.  
This hasnt  been  an easy time for them  and I wish them well for the future.
Ref: DRN59999812However, Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs F but I havent upheld their complaint. On the 
whole I think the bank treated them sympathetically. Not only did the bank agree to the 
concessionary overdraft arrangements, but when  Mr and Mrs F, no doubt despite  their best 
efforts, didnt keep  to the terms of these,  the bank still agreed to various breathing  spaces 
and made  special arrangements for Mr and Mrs F to make withdrawals. 
The difficult  path the bank has to tread in cases like this is illustrated by Mr Fs suggestion 
that the bank agreed at one point  to an excessive overdraft. I think that criticism,  for 
example, goes too far.
Mr and Mrs F make a fair point about the possibility of the bank contacting  Mrs F if it wanted 
information. On the other hand,  if Mr F  who was undoubtedly the main contact, indeed  he 
didnt even include Mrs Fs name on the complaint  form when first contacting us  if Mr F 
failed to contact  the bank  when he said he would, the bank might reasonably expect him to 
ask Mrs F to contact the bank instead, to adhere  to the arrangement.  
In terms of contact and the lack thereof, I note from the banks records  on 26 October  2018  
(without abbreviations): The customer advised  he will call back  the next day which  he didnt. 
I explained to customer as we have not heard from him the breathing space ran out 
Customer will call back tomorrow. The next entry is a phone call from Mr F on 
19 December 2018. 
I appreciate that may not be typical  and Mr and Mrs F have referred in particular to there 
having been more contact  in and around  September  2018 than we may have realised. 
However, the banks  internal notes to which Mr and Mrs F have referred were reviewed by 
the investigator before he reached his conclusions. The crucial issue,  it seems to me, is 
whether but for some fault or other  on the part of the bank the outcome  might have been 
different and more  favourable to Mr and Mrs F. Ive been unable to reach  that conclusion. 
And the reason is that I dont think Mr and Mrs Fs financial  circumstances were such that an 
arrangement satisfactory to the bank could  have been achieved.  So I think  the default would 
have occurred anyway.  
In terms of a lack of prior notice of ending the overdraft, I can understand why Mr and Mrs F 
would have liked to be contacted in that way. On the other hand, if Mr and Mrs F knew as 
they did that the overdraft could be withdrawn immediately if they didnt  keep to the terms 
and they then didnt keep  to them, the bank had the right to act as it did. For the bank to give 
prior notice in such situations can sometimes not be in the banks  interests, as the customer 
may use the notice period to make  the banks  position worse. 
Unfortunately for Mrs F, the bank is indeed  obliged to include her name when reporting on 
the conduct of the account  to credit reference  agencies. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  
Ref: DRN59999813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5999981