K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1998. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds doesnt  have any of the paperwork from the time the PPI was sold to Mr C, which  isnt 
surprising as the sale took place  so long ago. So I need to decide  what  I think is more likely 
to have happened taking into account everything  Mr C and Lloyds have said as well as what 
I know about the way Lloyds  sold PPI at the time.  
Lloyds have provided a sample credit card application it says would have been used from 
around the time Mr C took the PPI. And I think its likely to have been the same  or a similar 
type to the one Mr C would  have seen. The application shows  the option to tick a box to 
apply for the PPI. So, I think its likely  Mr C chose to take out the policy knowing he could  
have declined it if he didnt want it  although  its understandable that he cant  remember 
that now. 
Mr C says he felt like he was pressurised and misled into taking the PPI. I accept that (over  
20 years  on) this is how Mr C might remember the sale. But theres a difference between 
Lloyds encouraging him to take out PPI and pressuring  him to do so. Pressure  can be very 
subjective  what  one person believes is pressure may not be considered in that way by 
another. Of course, I cant be sure what was said during the meeting. I accept its possible 
the Lloyds adviser  may have said something to make Mr C think  he needed to take the PPI 
and thats why he completed  the paperwork as he did. But I think  its more likely that as the 
policy was recommended to him he was told it was something it would be good  to have to 
protect his repayments   rather than he had to have  it. Without  stronger evidence  Lloyds 
said or did something to pressurise Mr C into taking  the policy, I cant fairly  uphold on this 
basis.
As Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr C it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Although Mr C has told us he had good  sick pay, the PPI would have paid out on top of 
anything he mightve  received  from his employer and for significantly longer than he would  
have received his full rate of pay  providing up to 12 months cover per claim.  It also would 
have meant  that any redundancy pay he received, or the small amount of savings hes told 
us he had, could  have been used  for other essential living  expenses  at what couldve been a 
difficult time financially. So overall, I think he would have found the PPI useful if something 
went wrong. 
Ref: DRN50840702Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And as 
above, I think it was right for him. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because  In 2017,  following  a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds said that the level of commission and profit  share it received  did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr C paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr C for the time he was out of pocket.  
Mr C says that he would have been  in a better positon to evaluate  what value the policy  
presented if hed been told about  the commission  and this makes a material difference  to 
whether it was mis-sold or not. But as I have set out in my findings above I think  he chose to 
take the cover out as the protection it provided  would have been useful to him - and I think  it 
was affordable for him at the time. Im not persuaded that better information about the 
commission element of the policy would have stopped him taking the insurance  at all. And 
Lloyds has offered to do what the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Cs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Lloyds to do anything differently.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr C any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr C the difference between 
what Mr C owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr C 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN50840703The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084070