K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE refused his
motor insurance claim following damage to his car.
background
Mr O contacted Aioi on 29 November 2017 to claim on his policy after he said his car was
vandalised. Due to excess on his policy Mr O decided  not to claim. He said he got his uncle
to carry out the repairs. On 6 December 2017  Mr O called Aioi again and said the same
parts of his car had been  vandalised  again  and other parts stolen. The damage caused
meant Mr Os car would be written-off.
Aioi sent an investigator  to take a statement from Mr O. Aioi continued to have concerns
about the claim and a few months  later asked a different investigator to look into things.
That investigator took another statement from Mr O.
Aioi turned down Mr Os claim as it said there were a number of inconsistencies in his
accounts of what  had happened, and in the data taken from the cars telematics box. It said
the policy allowed  it to refuse all cover if any part of his account was false, fraudulent or
exaggerated. It also asked him to pay the £916.20  it had paid in investigating the claim.
Mr O was unhappy with Aiois response  and brought his complaint  to us. He said the
inconsistencies were  because the statements were  taken  so far apart.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 March 2020, where I explained why I 
didnt think Aioi had done anything wrong. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr Os policy says that if he provides information that is any way
false, fraudulent  or exaggerated then Aioi can refuse  all cover  under the policy.  That means
Aioi must show that its most likely the claim is false,  fraudulent  or exaggerated.
Aiois said that when speaking to the first investigator Mr O said he parked his car in a
location Ill refer to as A. He said he visited the car every week  to turn the engine over until
receiving a call from the police to say his car had been vandalised. He said he and his uncle
fitted a new windscreen  and rear window and his uncle reattached the wing mirrors. Mr O
said he paid around  £200 for this but doesnt have any receipts.
Aioi said when speaking  to the second  investigator Mr O said his car had broken down and
been recovered to A. He said hed then driven  it up and down the road to stop the battery
going flat. Mr O said he wasnt with his uncle when he repaired the car.
Aioi said the data from the telematics box didnt support  that Mr O had driven  the car up and
down the road. And it said he hadnt  been  truthful  about the car suffering  a mechanical
problem and being recovered  to A. It also didnt think hed been able to evidence  that the car
had been repaired.
Ive looked at the investigators reports,  as well as the telematics data and accept what Aiois
said. While  I appreciate there was some  time between the reports, I think  there are enough
inconsistencies for Aioi to rely on the term it has to turn down  Mr Os claim. I say this
because the telematics  data also doesnt  show Mr O drove  his car up and down the road. He
also hadnt mentioned about  it being recovered or been able to evidence hed had the car
Ref: DRN51372572repaired. So, I dont  intend to interfere  with Aiois decision to turn down the claim  and 
recover the money its paid out in looking into things.
Neither Mr O nor Aioi replied to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr O nor Aioi provided any further comments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5137257