K821x#15complaint 
Mr and Mrs L complain that their buildings insurance provider AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA)
havent provided enough settlement funds  to repair damage caused  to their house,  barn and
tower during  a storm.
background 
In March 2019 the roofs of Mr and Mrs Ls house,  barn and tower were  damaged  in a storm.
Tiles had been  blown off the house  and corrugated sheets had been damaged, deformed or
blown off the barn roof. Much of the tower  that sat on the barn- had blown to the ground.
Mr and Mrs L contacted  AXA and reported the damage. AXA sent out their loss adjusters (C)
to complete a site visit. There  was further damage caused inside the house however this has
been satisfactorily repaired. AXA paid £683 twice for some  internal repairs so this amount
will need  to be deducted from any future  settlement.
C stated that the barn wasnt covered due to a wear  and tear clause in the policy; and that
the barn was in a state of general disrepair and that around £750 would cover repairs to the
roof of the house. Mr and Mrs L said AXAs offer wasnt enough  to complete a lasting repair.
In relation to the house, C said that the damage caused was typical of storm damage,  but
the damage to the barn roof should  not be considered  under  the claim. Mr and Mrs L werent
happy, so they made a complaint to AXA.
AXAs claims department  reviewed the case and said they couldnt  see why they werent
covering the outbuildings  (barn  and tower) too. The claims department  agreed  there  was
storm conditions and the damage  to the roofs and tower was consistent  with a storm. They
agreed that they should cover the repairs to the outbuildings. They  arranged  for a contractor
to complete a site visit to assess the outbuilding  repairs. The contractor stated that due to
the poor condition  of the outbuildings they would need to replace the whole roof. They
estimated around  £26,000 to repair the outbuildings and house roofs.
On review the claims department of AXA decided that if they replaced the whole roof of the
outbuildings it would  involve  a significant  proportion of uninsured work. They said that the
pre-storm condition of the outbuildings was poor.  However, AXAs  claims department also
stated that they couldnt decline the outbuildings roof claim again, as it was agreed in the
complaint resolution  that they would  cover the claim  in full.
AXA concluded that around  £5,000 (£2,117.74 for the outbuildings and £2,849.03 for the
house) was a fair amount to repair the barn and house roofs.  This included  replacing around
18 corrugated sheets  on the barn roof and replacing  the tower.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with AXAs offer and said that 43 sheets  had been  damaged  on
the barn roof. They complained to AXA who didnt uphold their complaint and felt that around
£5,000 was a fair amount  to repair both roofs.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with AXAs settlement to repair  the house and outbuildings, so
they brought a complaint  to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into the complaint
and didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs L complaint.  The investigator felt that the amount AXA offered
was fair and was enough to complete the repairs. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the
investigators decision, so they asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
Ref: DRN51332622my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA havent provided enough settlement funds to put them back
in the position they were in before the storm. Ive considered whether the settlement funds
paid to Mr and Mrs L was enough to complete an effective and lasting repair.
When an insurer is contacted by a customer after their property is damaged, Id expect them
to assist their customer by making  reasonable efforts to gather all necessary information,
and deal with the claim  promptly  and fairly. Id also expect the insurer to provide reasonable
information on its progress. Ive reviewed the contact  notes,  photos,  quotes and
communications between  Mr and Mrs L and AXA,  this has given me a good understanding
of the timeline  of events and the state  of the buildings.
Mr and Mrs Ls buildings insurance policy with AXA states:
Normal weather conditions shouldnt cause damage to a well-maintained  property  
and damage of this nature isnt covered by this policy. It is therefore important to 
keep your property in a good state of repair.
Were storm  conditions the main  cause of the damage or were other factors  involved? 
For example, we look if the damage would have  occurred  without the storm. The 
policy isnt designed to cover you for any gradual deterioration, wear and tear or loss 
or damage resulting from inadequate maintenance.
The policy goes on to say that the policyholder  is covered  for loss or damaged caused by
storm. AXA have agreed that the damage  caused  to the house and outbuildings were
caused by storm  and have agreed  to cover the damage under the policy.
AXA themselves said that when C initially completed  the first site visit, they significantly
under estimated the cost of repairs which in turn made Mr and Mrs L unhappy. AXA accepts
they could have done better here. I think this is a fair judgement  and Im happy that AXA
have acknowledged  this.
Im happy  that on review  AXA took the decision to cover the outbuildings and I understand
why they changed their mind. I think this is a reasonable assessment as the photos show
many of the sheets bowed at the lower end, and bolts that have been lifted from the
corrugated sheets.
After receiving a quote from contractors  of around  £26,000 to repair the outbuildings and the
house roof, AXA felt that the replacing  of the whole of the outbuildings  roofs would be
excessive, and had the case reviewed by their own surveyor.  I can see why AXA did this,
and I think this action  was reasonable.
AXA said that there was evidence  of previous repairs to the barn roof which  evidenced pre-
existing issues. However, Mr and Mrs L said that the evidence of previous repairs  supports
their account  that they monitor the roof and complete repairs  to keep the roof in good  order. I
agree that evidence  of repairs supports Mr and Mrs Ls statement that they do ensure the 
barn roof is kept in a good state  of repair.
Ref: DRN51332623In May 2019, Mr and Mrs L asked  AXA to send someone to do the work so AXA contacted a
contractor to provide  a quote. The contractor didnt want to repair the roof due to the amount
of damage which  wasnt  covered  that needed to be completed. Mr and Mrs L had no option
but to arrange the repairs  themselves.  Mr and Mrs L said that AXA should have done more
here and possibly looked for other contractors to complete the repairs. I agree that AXA
could have done more here. If AXA had arranged contractors themselves, I think this would
have saved Mr and Mrs L a great  deal of inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs L have provided  several  quotes  to complete the repairs to their house and
outbuildings. The total amount required to carry out the repairs, less what AXA have already
paid and less the amount AXA have paid twice  for internal repairs  is £6,698.52.  AXA have
already paid £2,117.74  for repairs to the outbuildings (barn roof and tower) and £2,849.03
for repairs to the house roof. Therefore, AXA have already paid £4,976.77 in total towards
the barn and house roofs  and the tower.
However, the individual quotes provided  by Mr and Mrs L show that they require a further
£2,117.74 to repair the barn roof, £2,891.60 to repair the tower and a further a further
£900.97 to repair the house  roof. So, in total Mr and Mrs L require a further  £7,381.52  to
complete all outstanding repairs. However,  AXA has paid £683 twice for internal repairs  to
the house. So, Mr and Mrs L require £7,381.52 less the £683 that AXA have paid twice. This
leaves £6,698.52 to complete all the repairs to the house, barn and tower.
Ive spoken to Mr and Mrs L, and its clear  to me that they have been caused stress and
worry. If everything had been  dealt  with fairly  and promptly, I think that the house, barn and
tower should  have been repaired by late June 2019 at the latest. This would have allowed
AXA three months to source repairers  and carry out the work. However, the repairs  remain
outstanding.
Mr and Mrs L are worried  for their animals,  the roof of the barn is still not repaired as we
approach winter. Mr L informs me that the worry of all of this has cause them  a great  deal of
anxiety and hes had to spend time getting  quotes  from several roofers, businesses and
suppliers. Ive no reason to doubt  their accounts  of the unnecessary distress and
inconvenience this matter has caused them.
AXA paid Mr and Mrs L £200 compensation in April 2019 for distress & inconvenience and
loss of expectation and Im happy  that AXA decided to pay Mr and Mrs L some
compensation at that time. I think AXA should  pay Mr and Mrs L a further £100
compensation for their material distress and inconvenience.  I think  that if the claim had been
progressed fairly and promptly, the repairs  would  have been completed  five months ago.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs L accepted  my provisional decision.  
AXA said;
They didnt  feel that my provisional decision changed anything,  as they had offered to 
review any additional  information provided by Mr and Mrs L. 
Ref: DRN51332624Mr and Mrs L caused the delays themselves, as they provided this additional 
information via our service, and didnt provide it directly  to AXA.  And therefore, AXA 
shouldnt be held liable  for this delay  or be required to pay compensation as a result 
of it. 
They only had the clock tower quote  at the time they issued their final response  to  
Mr and Mrs L and therefore,  cannot take into account quotes  and costs that only 
come to them via our service. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of AXAs response  to it. 
AXA are now saying  that if Mr and Mrs L had provided these quotes to them before coming  
to our service, they would have considered them. Whilst  I agree that AXA would have 
considered them, Im satisfied that AXA would have declined the requests for further funds. I 
say this as AXAs own surveyor  found that around £5,000 was enough to repair both the 
barn and house  roof. In the final response letter,  AXA reiterated  this believe, stating that, the 
cash settlement was a fair offer. Without the intervention of our service, I believe that AXA 
would have referred to their surveyors findings and refused to release further funds. 
AXA in their final response, only agreed to reconsider  the settlement for the internal work if 
Mr and Mrs L provided further quotes,  there  was no offer to review  quotes for the external 
works as AXA have suggested. This meant Mr and Mrs L had no option but to come to our 
service. 
AXA also suggest  they should  not have to pay Mr and Mrs L further compensation, as they 
are not responsible for the delays. And that Mr and Mrs L are responsible  as they provided  
quotes via our service  and didnt provide quotes  directly to them. 
I dont accept AXAs response here. AXA havent completed the works themselves or 
provided Mr and Mrs L with sufficient funds to complete the works as per the terms of the 
policy. AXA should  have  put Mr and Mrs L back in the position they were in before the storm 
took place. AXA havent done  what I would have expected them  to do. Im therefore satisfied 
that AXA caused the delay. 
We are now in winter; Mr and Mrs L have raised  welfare concerns for their animals. Im 
satisfied that these concerns are valid and believe that if AXA had taken  ownership  early on, 
the repairs would have been  completed  six months ago. I think  its right that AXA should pay 
Mr and Mrs L £100 for their material distress  and inconvenience. 
AXA say they only had the clock  tower quote at the time they issued their final response to 
Mr and Mrs L and therefore,  cannot take into account quotes  and costs that only come to 
them via our service. I dont think AXA are being fair and reasonable here. I dont see any 
reason why AXA cant accept theses invoices.  Im satisfied that the invoices are a true 
reflection of the outstanding work required to put Mr and Mrs L back  in the position they were 
in before the storm. Therefore,  to meet their obligations under the policy, AXA should pay  
Mr and Mrs L a further £6,698.52  to cover the outstanding repairs  to their house and barn,  
less any applicable excess. 
Ref: DRN51332625my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L a further £6,698.52  to cover the outstanding repairs to their house, 
barn and tower,  less any applicable excess.
Pay Mr and Mrs L a further £100  for their material distress  and inconvenience*.
*AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days  from when we tell them
Mr and Mrs L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest at
8% simple  a year on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5133262