K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that his John Lewis Partnership  card was used for a number  of transactions 
in May and June  2017, but that John Lewis Financial Services  Limited wont refund them.  
background
Mr P has explained that he has a holiday  home in France. Between 18 May and 28 June 
2017 his John Lewis Partnership  card was used to make  more than 30 transactions  in 
France. Mr P acknowledges that he made  one payment  in that time  an online purchase 
from a UK store  but none of the others.  The total value of the disputed transactions  is more  
than £2,000.
Mr P contacted John  Lewis about the transactions in France.  He said he hadnt made or 
authorised them. Nobody else knew his PIN, and he didnt have a record of it. He had left his 
card at his home in France  in April and May 2017,  but had it with him in the UK during the 
period of the disputed transactions, having  collected  it from France before they started.
Mr P also said that he had the card with him when he made the undisputed  online purchase 
on 29 May 2017. He hadnt written down the card details needed to complete  that 
transaction, which he made from the UK. 
John Lewis  wasnt persuaded however that Mr P hadnt made or authorised  the transactions  
himself. It noted in particular that they had all been  made using the genuine card,  and most 
had been verified  with the PIN linked to the card. It noted that Mr P hadnt  been willing to 
discuss them by telephone, and it didnt agree to refund the transactions. 
Mr P referred the matter to this service,  where  two investigators considered it. The second 
investigator ultimately took the view that Mr P probably had made the transactions  himself or 
authorised someone  else to do so. He didnt recommend a refund, and Mr P asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I dont believe 
that John Lewis has treated  Mr P unfairly by not agreeing to a refund. 
Ill start with two general points. First, John Lewis says that all the disputed transactions 
were made using the genuine card and that most were made with its PIN as well. That isnt, 
of itself, enough to conclude  that he made or authorised the transactions, so Ill consider and 
discuss that in more detail. Second, John  Lewis  asked  Mr P to discuss the case by 
telephone. Mr P was, however, entitled  to decline and to explain that he preferred 
correspondence to be in writing. It may have been more  convenient  for John  Lewis to speak 
to him on the phone, but there was no requirement for him to do so.
I turn now to the specifics of the complaint. 
I accept that all the transactions which are in dispute  were,  as John Lewis says, made using 
Mr Ps genuine card  rather than a copy or clone  of it. Thats because the transaction 
records show that the chip embedded in the card was read when  each of them  was made.  
Its relatively easy to take information from the magnetic  stripe  on a card and to recreate it on 
the magnetic stripe  of another card  creating a clone. But creating a copy of the electronic 
Ref: DRN59784812chip in a card is a different matter entirely. For that reason, I believe that the genuine card 
was used here. That means of course  that, contrary to what Mr P has said, his card was in 
France when each  of the disputed transactions was made. 
In addition, nearly all the disputed  transactions  were verified  with the correct  PIN. Again, the 
transaction records show that. Mr P says he hasnt shared his PIN with anyone and doesnt 
keep a written record of it. Its unlikely that someone  could have guessed it correctly,  and its 
not recorded in accessible form on the card itself. So, as well as obtaining the card, I need to 
consider how someone could have known the PIN. The most likely explanation in my view is 
that Mr P did in fact disclose it to someone. 
Whilst its not in dispute,  Ive considered  as well the online transaction made to a UK store.  
That was made  using the card details, not the physical card.  Mr P says that he placed the 
order from the UK. He says he didnt have a written  record  of the card details needed to 
place the order  (card number, expiry date,  CVV number). The implication is that he had the 
card itself with him when  he placed the order. But on the same day there were two 
transactions made with the genuine card in France.  If, as Mr P says, he had the card with 
him when  he placed  the order, he wasnt in the UK; or, if he was in the UK, he must have 
had a record of the card details. He wasnt, as he says, in the UK with the card.  
Mr P has provided evidence that he was in the UK when a number of the disputed  
transactions were  made. I accept that he was in the UK on or about 5 June  and from about  
15 June; he may have been in the UK at other times  too but cannot  demonstrate  it. I also 
accept therefore  that he didnt make  all of the disputed transactions.  But, given what hes 
said about the presence of the card and his record of the PIN, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr P, at the very least, allowed someone else to use his card;  he may have carried out 
some of the transactions himself. But whether  he made the transactions  himself  or allowed 
someone else to use his card to make them makes no difference to the outcome here. Im 
satisfied he made or authorised all of them and that it wouldnt therefore be fair to require 
John Lewis  to refund them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require John Lewis Financial Services  Limited  to do anything  
more to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask to accept or reject my decision before  15 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978481