K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation),  following  
a claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
background 
Mr M was contacted by Home Energy Lifestyle Management Ltd (HELMs), a company that 
supplied and installed solar panel systems. Following a meeting, Mr M agreed to enter into a 
contract with HELMs for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about  £7,000.  
To fund this Mr M also agreed  to enter into a 10 year fixed  sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr M made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via their representative. The 
representative said that HELMs had told Mr M that the solar panels would be self-funded  
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments  had been  much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  Creation said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar  panels 
had been misrepresented  to Mr M. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred  the complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She felt the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented. She recommended  that Creation calculate  the 
potential savings and income to Mr M over the term of the loan. She said it should then 
restructure the loan so that Mr M didnt pay any more than this over the 10 year term of the 
loan. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr M £200  to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused.
Creation accepted our investigators  view in part but offered £100 to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused. Mr M, via his representative, didnt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M say that he was cold-called  and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels would 
be entirely self-financing. Having carefully  considered the available evidence,  like the 
investigator I think that HELMs did misrepresent the benefits of the solar panel system. 
Creation has accepted  the investigators view and as a result this decision will deal with what 
I consider to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ref: DRN52433262I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from his home.  Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome here is to put Mr M in a position  where the panels are self-funding  over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing Mr M to keep the panels, I am satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
Mr Ms representative says he was told that the loan repayments  would be covered by the 
FIT. So Ive considered  whether any electricity savings should be taken into account  when 
arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr M was misled into thinking  that the solar panels would be self-funding  
and so on that basis I need  to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that question,  
I think its fair to take account of the electricity generated  by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Mr M has to pay his loan and for any electricity used in addition to that generated by 
the panels and on the other he can off-set those payments  by the FIT payments and the 
savings associated with the electricity generated  by the panels. It would be unfair to ignore 
the electricity generated and used by Mr M when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service  to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been  shared with 
Mr Ms representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr Ms solar  panel system. 
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Ms solar 
panels it will use a number of assumptions. These  include  using a self-consumption  rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Ms solar panels that he is expected  
to use rather than buying electricity from his energy  provider. An ombudsman who issued a 
previous final determination  considered that a 50% self-consumption rate was a fair 
assumption as this was the assumption  used  by Government. Following further  submissions,  
in a previous decision  I was satisfied that a self-consumption rate of 37% was reasonable.   
Mr Ms representative has said that the methodology being used to make  the panels  self-funding  
is out of date. It has provided  a joint statement from two industry experts  to support this. In 
particular the experts  disagree that a self-consumption rate of 37% should be used in every case 
and that a payment should  be made towards  covering ongoing maintenance and repair costs.
Ill deal first with the self-consumption rate. Ive thought carefully about the points the 
representative has made as well as the expert  testimony provided. Ive taken into account 
that both experts  have  previously provided  reports to this service and have disagreed  on 
what they consider  to be a reasonable self-consumption rate. For example previously one 
expert has said 25% is reasonable while the other  has suggested that at the point of 
calculating redress a rate of 37-41%  was reasonable for a passive consumer but went on to 
say that using the Energy Trusts online calculator  which takes more account  of occupancy 
during the day a rate of 37% was reasonable.  
Ref: DRN52433263What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period of time someone is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar  panel system is generating. 
And so Im not persuaded that I should  use the Governments 50% rate or the higher end of 
the passive consumer. It is self-evident  that determining an exact figure over the period of 
the loan is difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation  and arrive at an outcome that 
is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account all the available  
evidence discussed  above and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy habits 
over the lifetime of the solar panel system.  Once the loan has been repaid,  Im satisfied that 
it is highly  likely that Mr M will continue to benefit from the system as a result of a reduction in 
his electricity bills because  of the electricity  generated  by the panels and the FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Creation,  including  electricity price  
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis  for calculating fair compensation.
I turn now to consider on-going maintenance and repair costs. The joint statement I referred 
to above suggests that the inverter will need to be replaced at least twice over the lifetime  of 
the panels, at a cost of around  £1,050  each  time.
 
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer  could  have  some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panels  self-funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, 
as Ive already  outlined  above, Mr M is highly likely to enjoy significant  benefit from the solar 
panel system by way of savings and the FIT income  going forward.  In addition, Mr M has the 
flexibility to be paid a lump sum to cover their overpayments  together with interest. 
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mr M has the flexibility to be paid his compensation 
payment as a lump  sum to pay for a replacement inverter  if necessary.
Because of the reasons  Ive given above Im not persuaded that the business should  make 
an award for maintenance and repair costs.  
By making  the panels  self-funding, Mr Ms monthly  repayments will reduce, meaning that he 
wouldve previously been paying more each  month.  And as Mr M would have been deprived 
of the monthly  overpayment I would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement. In a case like this, I think  the fairest  resolution  
would be to let Mr M have the following  selection  of options as to how he would like his 
overpayments to be used:
(a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly  payment  resulting in the loan finishing early,
Ref: DRN52433264(b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he pays 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr M and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting  in their loan finishing early,  or
(d)the overpayments are returned  to Mr M and he pays a new,  lower  monthly  payment 
until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient  information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means that his claim should  have been  upheld. The fact that this did 
not happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an award 
of £100 to cover this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a)allow Mr M to keep  the solar panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings  and income  to Mr M from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it should 
use Mr Ms electricity  bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement,
(d)allow Mr M to decide how hed like his overpayments to be used, using the four options 
described above, and;
(e)pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much itss taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN5243326