K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a hire agreement financed  by Propel Finance No 1 Limited trading as 
Henry Howard Finance  No. 1 Limited  was misrepresented. He wants  to end the finance  
agreement.
background
Mr G is represented by his wife, but for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr G tells us that he was told by the HHF sales person that the cost of hire for a coffee 
vending machine would be £30 per week. And that hed be given 7,000  free sachets. He 
states that when  the machine was installed he only received 3,500 sachets and was told the 
rest would be provided after six months. Mr G states  that the copy  of the agreement  hes 
been given isnt the one he signed. And that hes being charged too much.
HHF told us that Mr G had signed the finance agreement  and that it had been witnessed  by 
the sales agent. It said the terms and costs of the agreement were  discussed with Mr G prior 
to his signing the agreement.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied 
Mr G had signed the agreement. And made the point that if he hadnt  done so it wasnt clear 
why he wouldve accepted the coffee  kits. He also saw that details for the direct debit 
mandate had been provided. And he felt these must have been  supplied by or on behalf of 
Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree with this outcome. He said his signature had been forged on the 
agreement. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an ombudsmans  been  asked  
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr G seems to be dissatisfied  with whats happened in the circumstances 
surrounding the signing of this agreement. 
Mr Gs hire agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit  agreement and our service  is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. A misrepresentation is a false  statement of fact which 
induces a consumer into entering  into an agreement  and suffering a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation. 
Where information is unclear or incomplete or facts  are in dispute  - as is the case  here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In his original complaint  Mr G raised concerns about  the authenticity of the signature on the 
agreement along  with additional charges and not being supplied with all the promised  coffee 
kits.
Ref: DRN53688262Ive asked Mr G for details of the additional charges to which he referred but Ive not 
received any further information. The terms of the agreement  are for monthly payments of 
£130 per month,  excluding VAT.  This amounts to £30 per week.  It may be that Mr G didnt 
realise the headline figure would be subject to VAT.  But as I wasnt present during 
discussions I cant say what precise details were mentioned. All I can say is the agreement 
makes clear  that the monthly payment is subject to VAT. And theres nothing to show  this 
was misrepresented.
I understand its now accepted that the coffee kits are supplied in separate deliveries. At an 
interval of six months. As Ive not seen anything to show they were all to be supplied  
immediately the agreement was entered I cant reasonably say theres been any 
misrepresentation over this aspect.
That leaves the issues of the signature.  And its not entirely clear  what gives rise to Mr Gs 
concern about  the signature  on the agreement.
Mr G has told our investigator he signed an agreement. But he denies that the copy  of the 
agreement with which Ive been supplied is a copy  of the one that he signed.
I can only state that I find the signature on the copy of the agreement supplied  to me to be 
indistinguishable from that which was contained on the complaint form which was later 
submitted by Mr G.
I also take into account that its not in dispute that the coffee  vending  machine was installed 
along with a quantity of kits. Its hardly  likely that any business would supply and install  
valuable equipment on retail premises belonging to a customer  without  having  first entered a 
legal agreement regarding the terms. Equally it seems improbable that Mr G wouldve 
supplied his bank  account details if hed not wished to enter  the finance agreement. Again I 
cant see any information which would  lead me to believe  thered been any 
misrepresentation.
In summary,  Im unable  to find there  was anything untoward about  Mr Gs signature on the 
agreement. Theres  no information to show the agreement was misrepresented.  Accordingly, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5368826