K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Vanquis Bank Limited  allowed  an unauthorised  transaction  to be taken from 
his account.  He says it also shared his new account details with a third party.
background
Mr W had a previous subscription with a breakdown company  R.  He says the renewal 
price R quoted was too high so he intended  to look elsewhere.  However,  in the meantime,  
he noticed a payment go out to R from his Vanquis  account.
Mr W queried this. He said he didnt know how this could be possible as his card had been 
replaced since he last made a payment  to R and he had not provided it with the new details.  
He concluded  Vanquis must have done  this and so complained.
Vanquis did not uphold his complaint.  It said the payment was made under a continuous 
payment authority and that the only way this would  be stopped would be if Mr W had 
contacted it or R directly.   It also noted that R had since refunded the transaction.
But Mr W was not happy with its response and brought his complaint  to this service  where  or 
investigator looked into matters for him.
Mr W produced  evidence  from R which  suggested  that it had in fact received his new details.  
Our investigator explained that this was direct from the card issuer  V  and not from 
Vanquis.  She said as far as Vanquis was concerned, she wouldnt be asking it to do 
anymore.  If Mr W wanted to complain about R or V, that would have to be done separate to 
this complaint.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to make it clear to Mr W that my decision relates solely  to whether I think  Vanquis has 
done anything  wrong in how it had dealt with his complaint.  I dont think  it has.
As the investigator  has already  explained,  the agreement between Mr W and R involved a 
continuous payment  authority.  Once  the initial payment has been made  using the long card 
number, all future payments are made  from the account held and not the card.  This is what 
appears to have happened here.
I am satisfied that the information as to the new card details did not come  from Vanquis - 
they came  from V. And whether R used them or not to take this further payment, I know  not.
What I can make a finding on, on the balance  of probabilities, is that Vanquis has dealt with 
Mr Ws complaint  fairly and reasonably. In the circumstances, I will not be asking that it pays 
him any compensation for any anxiety caused  whilst he pursued this complaint.
Ref: DRN59733422Mr W also asks that he be provided with a new card as he feels  the previous one has been  
compromised.  I dont know whether he has made  this request of Vanquis  but it seems  a 
perfectly reasonable one.  I would expect Vanquis  to accede to such a request.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5973342