K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about National House-Building Councils  decision to decline a claim under 
her buildings warranty policy.
background
Miss M has a Buildmark warranty with NHBC which covers her flat. 
She made a claim for damage which she said was caused by vibration in the building  in 
which her flat sits. She said the vibration was caused by her neighbours use of their 
washing machine  in the flat above.
Miss M says the amount  of vibration  and noise in her flat is unacceptable and must indicate  
a failure to meet appropriate building  standards when  the flats were constructed. She says 
shes been advised not to use her gas boiler because  the vibrations may cause the pipes to 
leak.
NHBC declined Miss Ms claim. They  carried out an inspection but didnt identify  any 
damage caused by any defect in the building. They pointed out that vibration or noise 
caused by white  goods is not covered by the policy.
Miss M made a complaint  to NHBC.  And when they didnt  uphold her complaint, she brought 
it to us. Our investigator looked  into and didnt  think NHBC had done anything  wrong.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants  NHBC to 
carry out a survey to determine whether there  is a fault in the construction  of the building   
particularly in the way the floors are supported at the walls.  If there  is a defect, she wants 
NHBC to put it right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to set out what Miss Ms policy covers. 
The policy is essentially  in two parts. The first covers the first two years after the build is 
completed. During this time, the policyholder is required to refer any problems back  to the 
builder. NHBC only intervene if the builder fails to put things right.
The second  part runs from year three to year ten, when the policy  ends. Section Three of the 
policy document says that during this period, NHBC will pay for:
The full cost of putting right any actual physical Damage  caused  by a Defect in any 
of the following parts of the building.
The list which follows includes walls,  foundations, ceilings and the load-bearing parts of 
floors. So it clearly includes those parts of Miss Es building that she alleges are defective.
The policy defines  damage as physical  damage to the home caused by a defect.
Ref: DRN52853382There are two things I think are particularly relevant about this section  of the policy. 
One, the policy covers  actual existing damage. It doesnt require NHBC to take action to 
prevent the possibility  of future  damage.  As I understand it, Miss Es gas boiler isnt currently 
physically damaged. Shes been  advised not to use it because  it may become damaged.
Two, the policy requires  NHBC  to pay for repairs to the damage caused by a defect. It 
doesnt require  them to repair the defect  itself.
This might appear slightly odd  if not unfair   until you read Section Four of the policy.  This 
makes it clear that NHBC  will pay for the repair of a defect - where  there is a present or 
imminent danger because the home  doesnt  comply with the requirements of the building  
regulations - if NHBC (or its subsidiary) was responsible for the building  control  during 
construction.
NHBC wasnt responsible for the building control in this case, so that section of the policy  
doesnt apply.  But that makes it clear why NHBC dont feel theyre responsible  for repairing 
any defects in the building caused by failures  to meet the requirements of the building  
regulations at the time.
Its impossible  for me to say that NHBC are acting unfairly in this case  in refusing to address 
alleged fundamental failures to meet building regulation requirements when they didnt act 
as building  control for the project. Theyre entitled to rely on whoever did carry out that task 
to see that the requirements of the regulations  were  met.
I can understand Miss Ms frustration with her current situation. And I understand shes  
unhappy with the way building  work  is regulated. But even if NHBCs stated purpose is to 
improve standards in construction, they arent responsible for all building work in the UK  
and they cant  be expected to answer  for all problems  with that work.
More importantly, in this case, NHBC are responsible for complying with the terms of the 
warranty  the contract between themselves  and Miss M. Its not unfair if they decide  not to 
go above and beyond those terms. Miss M may have  a valid cause  for complaint about the 
way her building was constructed, but that complaint needs  to be aimed  elsewhere.
In summary,  Miss Ms policy  covers actual physical damage caused by a defect in the 
building. It explicitly doesnt cover any defects caused by failure  to meet  building  regulation  
requirements (under  Section  Four),  because NHBC werent  responsible for building control  
for the project.
There is no actual physical damage in this case,  in my view. Even if I agreed that the boiler 
was damaged in the sense of being  put out of use, theres nothing for NHBC to repair. 
Theres no evidence that there is a defect. And its not unfair  for NHBC to suggest that 
others are responsible  for any investigations to determine whether there is in fact a defect  
and if so, what it is.
Finally, I think  its worth  noting that the policy explicitly excludes cover  for anything which 
was  or could have  been  reported  to the builder within the first two years of the warranty.
As I understand it, Miss M reported this problem towards the end of the 10-year warranty  
period. If there is a fundamental defect in the way the building  is constructed,  which is 
Ref: DRN52853383causing the vibration issues, its difficult to see how and why this has only come  to light 
relatively recently  and/or why it couldnt  have been  reported to the builders within  the first 
two years.
I dont doubt Miss M when  she describes  the problems shes experienced with her flat. And I 
hope shell be able to find some satisfactory resolution through  other  channels.  But I cant  
find any reason to conclude that NHBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining  Miss 
Ms claim in line with the terms of her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5285338