K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) debited  a series  of 
payments totalling  approximately £6,235 from her credit card account  which  she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
background
In early May 2018,  Ms S gave her son her card and PIN so that he could buy an online food 
shop whilst she was in hospital. He returned the card to her after this, having made four 
payments on her card instead of one. But she says in the meantime he stopped  her paper 
statements and kept her card details  to allow him to continue using his card without her 
noticing. Her son didnt  live with her at the time but did visit her often.  She explained that 
whilst she did consent to him using her card for the online food shop, he had returned the 
credit card to her and she didnt expect him to use it again. Her son used  the card for a 
series of online transactions between May and July 2018 which totalled approximately 
£6,235. 
When Ms S discovered her son had been  using her card, she got in touch with Creation to 
inform them  of what had happened. They  completed an investigation  and told Ms S that they 
wouldnt be refunding  her as she had breached the terms  and conditions  of her account by 
giving her son the card and PIN. Creation agreed to reverse the charges that Ms S had 
incurred on her account during the period of the disputed transactions which  totalled  
approximately £520. 
Ms S wasnt happy with this, so she came  to our service. Our investigator reviewed what  had 
happened and recommended that the complaint be partially upheld. They felt that it was 
most likely Ms Ss son made the transactions  without  her consent and used the details he 
obtained when  he had the card to do so. So, they asked  Creation to refund all of the 
disputed transactions  apart from the four made in the time her son had her credit card. They  
also asked Creation to re-structure  Ms Ss account  as though the transactions had never  
been completed and requested the removal of any linked adverse information on Ms Ss 
credit file. 
Creation didnt agree. They suggested  that:
Ms Ss son must have had her physical  credit card to make some of the transactions  
such as those made in a pub and a fast food restaurant; 
The card was used  between April and July 2018 so they felt she must have given him 
the card on more than one occasion. 
They have also since said that they felt Ms S should never have provided her card and PIN 
in the first place as this was not only against  the terms and conditions of the account but 
means she has not kept her card and details securely. They felt Ms S should  have  realised 
in handing him these  details she was allowing him access to all of the details needed to 
complete further  transactions,  and by implication, giving him consent  to do so. 
As Creation didnt  agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN51281512Generally, Creation can hold Ms S liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that it is more  likely than not that she authorised these payments or gave someone 
else consent to make them on her behalf. Im satisfied from the banks  evidence  that these  
payments were properly  authenticated  that is that the genuine card details  were  used to 
make these transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that its not, on its 
own, enough to enable Creation to hold Ms S liable. 
I agree  that Ms S was in breach of the terms and conditions of her account by sharing her 
PIN with her son, but this in and of itself doesnt mean that she consented to these payments 
such that Creation  could  hold her liable for them. So, I also need to think about  whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Ms S authorised the transactions  being 
made. Having done so, I think  it is most  likely Ms S didnt authorise these transactions. Ill 
explain why. 
The relevant  regulations  say that if someone  gives their credit  token  that is their physical 
credit card  to someone  else with their consent, then they will be held liable for any use of 
their credit facility by the other person. This remains the case even if they exceed  the 
parameters of their consent  in this case allowing the son to buy one food shop.  So I agree 
with our investigator that whilst Ms S only meant for her son to use her card for one online 
grocery shop, it is fair for her to be held liable for the four transactions he made whilst he had 
the card in his possession. 
The relevant  regulations  do also allow banks  to hold their customer  liable for transactions 
where the consumer  does  or says something that permitted  the third-party to undertake the 
procedure for giving consent. But this authority, once  given, shouldnt  be regarded  as 
continuing indefinitely.  The question  is, on the facts, did the Ms S do enough  to annul any 
implied representation that the third-party, her son, has their authority. 
It is Ms Ss testimony that her son returned  her card to her after the initial four transactions,  
and I have seen  nothing to make me doubt this account. Creation have said that as Ms S 
accepts, she had given  her credit card to her son on the previous occasion, she has given 
him open ended  consent  to use it. They said that as her son was not a supplementary card 
holder, Ms S had actively and independently made  the decision  to give her son access to 
her card and credit  facility  in a way that was not agreed and independent from Creation. But 
in this case Ms S has explained that her son returned her card to her, and that she was 
unaware that he had taken note of the details, so there is nothing  to say she would have 
thought he would be able to use her card or credit facility again. 
Shes also explained that he stopped her paper  statements  which was how she usually 
monitored her account, meaning that he could  continue  spending  on her account  without  her 
noticing. Creation  confirmed  that her statement preference was changed in late May 2018. 
And I have  seen no evidence which would make  me disbelieve  her account. When 
considering the circumstances  of this complaint, I think  Ms Ss consent ended when her son 
returned the card to her. Consequentially I find that when her son made  the disputed 
transactions, he did not have her credit token,  nor was he acting with her implied consent. 
Having considered this, I do not think it is fair or reasonable to hold Ms S liable for the 
transactions that occurred after her son returned  her credit card to her. 
In order to put things  right, Creation must refund  the disputed transactions from 6 May 2018 
to 17 July 2018; restructure the account to remove any impact of these disputed  
transactions; and remove any relevant adverse information from Ms Ss credit file. 
Ref: DRN51281513my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ask that Creation:
refund  the disputed  transactions  from 6 May 2018 to 17 July 2018; 
restructure the account  to remove any impact of these disputed transactions; and 
remove any relevant adverse information  from Ms Ss credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5128151