K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plcs standard variable rate (SVR) doesnt move  in line 
with changes to the Bank  of England Base Rate.
background
Mr B borrowed £280,000 (plus a product  fee of £499) from Halifax Bank of Scotland plc 
(HBOS) on an interest only basis  in 2008.  Other than the product fee, which was charged at 
Halifaxs Standard  Variable Rate (SVR) the mortgage started  on a fixed  rate of 5.79%, which  
ran until June 2011. After  that, the mortgage would revert to the SVR which,  at the time of 
the offer, was 7.00%.  
Mr Bs mortgage did go onto the SVR after June 2011, but it had fallen from 7.00% to 3.5%.  
It then rose to 3.99% in 2012,  remaining  at that rate until 2016.  
He believes that the SVR interest rate he was charged should have moved  in line with the 
changes in Bank of England Base Rate. 
Because Mr B was unhappy  with this, he complained to HBOS who said they applied the 
changes to Mr Bs mortgage account in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this so he brought the complaint  to our service.  The complaint was 
looked at by one of our investigators who thought that HBOS rate was applied fairly   so he 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with this. He said that the low Bank  of England  Base Rate  wasnt passed 
onto him and his SVR actually increased instead. He asked for the complaint to be looked  at 
by an ombudsman so it has been  passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I appreciate that Mr B has strong  
feelings about this complaint, I wont be upholding it. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B and HBOS have said and what I have gone on to 
consider overall,  is how HBOS applied their rate changes generally,  and if these  changes  
are applied fairly in line with their terms and conditions.
The Bank of England Base Rate and the SVR moved in the following way:
August 2016  the Bank of England Base  Rate reduced to 0.25%, the SVR then 
reduced to 3.74%
November 2017 the Bank of England Base  Rate increased to 0.50%, the SVR 
increased to 3.99%
August 2018  the Bank of England Base  Rate increased to 0.75%, the SVR increased 
to 4.24%
I can see that HBOS have explained to Mr B that they are entitled to increase their SVR in 
line with their terms and conditions. They said that this rate doesnt  track the Bank of 
Ref: DRN55908812England Base Rate. And there isnt anything  set out in the mortgage  offer to suggest it 
shouldve done.  
Generally, a SVR is a follow  on rate from when  a consumers initial  rate  which can be 
either a fixed or tracker  rate for example - has expired.  Once a mortgage  account is on a 
SVR, its up to a lender  to decide  when  they change that rate. And there are often a number  
of factors that they take into consideration when doing this. 
I havent seen  anything in the terms and conditions which  suggests  that HBOS  are 
contractually obliged  to change their SVR when the Bank of England  Base Rate changes.  
Lenders can take these  changes  into account  when setting their rates   and they often do. 
But they dont  have to apply changes  just because the Bank of England Base rate changes  
at any given time.
Ive already explained that the SVR that Mr B was on wasnt tracking the Bank of England  
Base rate  because it didnt need to. This means  it wasnt required to change  at the same 
time or by the same margin.  But, in any case,  I can see that the SVR has broadly followed 
the Bank of England Base  Rate during the time that it was applied to Mr Bs account.  And 
from my knowledge of the market and experience of similar complaints, I note HBOS SVR 
was in line with other  lenders SVRs at the time.
The terms and conditions  also say that HBOS can change the SVR at any time as long as 
they give notice   which I believe they have.  The sample letters I have seen show that notice  
would have been given and the information from HBOS Ive seen  on file suggests  that these 
letters were sent out to Mr B, at his known postal address.
With regard to in the change  interest  rate in 2012,  HBOS terms and conditions allow them  to 
change the SVR if they need to. They are entitled to do this, among other reasons, to reflect 
changes in the cost to them of raising money  they lend to their customers with mortgages of 
a residential property. This is something Im satisfied they needed to do in 2012,  when they 
increased the SVR from 3.5% to 3.99%.
In addition to this, if Mr B was unhappy  with how the SVR was applied to his mortgage, he 
could, if he wanted  to, have changed  his mortgage  to another  lender or taken a new rate 
with HBOS. And from what Ive seen  there  were  no contractual barriers  put in place by 
HBOS which  stopped Mr B in moving  his mortgage  such as an early repayment charge.
If there were changes in Mr Bs circumstances, or in the market, which means  he was 
unable to move his mortgage elsewhere, this isnt something Id expect HBOS  to have 
foreseen. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them accountable for that  if it applies 
here.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think the changes  applied by HBOS  have been done so 
reasonably and fairly.
Ref: DRN55908813my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5590881