K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  (AXA) has declined his claim for items 
missing from his suitcase when he returned  from holiday.
background
Mr C made  a claim on his AXA travel insurance  policy as after landing  from a flight, he 
noticed damage to the front pocket of his suitcase. He was concerned that some items might  
be missing and reported this to the airline and the police. 
The airline provided Mr C with a replacement suitcase but didnt give him a property 
irregularity report (PIR). The police gave him an incident number, but no report.
Mr C later established what  items were missing  and claimed the full value of these from 
AXA. AXA had concerns about  the validity of the claim  and rejected it. They  felt Mr C had 
given inconsistent information and were concerned that the airline had said that the items  
claimed for wouldnt have  fitted into the damaged suitcase pocket. And AXA were  concerned  
that Mr C had submitted  duplicate claims to them and to another  insurer.
Mr C raised a complaint  with AXA but they didnt change their decision to decline his claim.
Mr C then complained  to our service.  Our investigator thought  AXA had carried out a 
thorough investigation of Mr Cs claim to validate their concerns. And based on this 
information he thought AXA acted reasonably in rejecting his claim.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion. In response he said that while  hed submitted 
two claims, hed made it clear which items he was claiming from each insurer  and there had 
been no duplicate  claim. He also said our investigator hadnt  considered  the delay in his 
complaint being  recorded  by AXA and awarded  any compensation for this.
Our investigator considered this and said Mr C hadnt made  it clear  to AXA that he was only 
claiming for certain items from them. He said hed asked AXA if they were  prepared to offer 
Mr C any compensation for delay,  but they werent.  
In looking at delay  our investigator said if AXA had logged  Mr Cs complaint earlier,  in 
August rather that October 2018,  he might  have been able to bring his complaint to our 
service earlier,  but we wouldnt have been able to investigate the claims decision, as it 
hadnt been made. 
We could only have  looked at the time AXA were  taking  to assess the claim. And having 
looked at the claim records, it didnt  appear that there were  any undue  delays in the 
investigation, so it was unlikely we would  have ordered any compensation to be paid.
Mr C remained  unhappy so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide whether Mr Cs claim is valid of not. My role is to consider whether 
in declining his complaint  AXA acted  fairly  and reasonably.
Ref: DRN50502332AXA had concerns about Mr Cs claim. Theyve  said they find it difficult  to understand how all 
the items  Mr C claimed for could have  been  in the damaged front pocket of his suitcase. In 
response to this Mr C said that his girlfriend had packed the items at the last minute,  as they 
didnt fit in her suitcase, when there was room in his. I accept  that this sounds quite 
reasonable.
AXA have also said that there are inconsistencies in what Mr C has said. Mr C reported 
having a conversation with AXA, during which  a member of their staff said he had the same 
suitcase, and the items would all have fitted  in the front pocket. AXA say this conversation 
never took place.  Ive listened to a recording  of this phone call and can confirm  that no such 
conversation took place  on this call.
And AXA say Mr C has changed his account of what happened later saying hed never said 
the missing items were in the front pocket,  and that it was the airline whod  said this. This is 
inconsistent with his earlier  account.
AXA were  also concerned that the items Mr C claimed for were  either  bought immediately 
before or while on holiday. While people often buy things on holiday, I can understand why 
AXA would be concerned that these  were the only items initially reported  as stolen. 
Mr C later said some of his underwear was also missing, but he didnt want to claim for this.
Mr C told our investigator that he only wanted  to claim up to his policy limit from AXA,  and 
his other  insurer. But I dont think he made this clear to AXA as he listed  all the missing 
items on his claim form. So, I think technically he submitted a duplicate claim to AXA.
Having considered the concerns raised by AXA, and Mr Cs responses  Im persuaded that 
AXA carried  out a thorough investigation  of his claim.  And given their concerns they acted 
reasonably in declining his claim.
Mr C also believes  he should be entitled to compensation as there was a delay in AXA 
logging his complaint. AXA have acknowledged  there was a delay in logging  his complaint, 
but theyve said it didnt delay their response  to his claim. Had his complaint been  logged 
when it was first reported AXAs investigation  was still ongoing, so although Mr C may have 
been able to come to our service sooner, we wouldnt  have been  able to consider his 
complaint about  the investigation of his claim,  as it was ongoing.  And I havent seen any 
evidence of undue delay in AXAs investigation of the claim, so I dont think  any 
compensation is due to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint 
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Patricia OLeary
Ref: DRN50502333ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050233