K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about a finance agreement that was opened by someone else,  but in his 
name, with Close  Brothers  Limited (trading as Close Brothers Retail Finance). Although the 
agreement was ended by Close Brothers, he says he hasnt been given assurances,  that his 
details are safe and that his credit file will remain unaffected.
background
In November 2018, Mr Bs bank  got in touch  with him to say that a new direct debit had been 
set up on his account, to allow payments to be made to Close  Brothers. Mr B hadnt opened 
an account with Close Brothers, so cancelled the direct debt with his bank. Mr B also 
reported what had happened to Close Brothers  and to a national  Police  unit which  looks  at 
fraudulent activity.
Some months later, in February 2019, Close Brothers wrote  to Mr B to tell him he hadnt  
made any payments  under the agreement, so they would look to place the account  into 
default. Mr B replied to Close Brothers  and complained that he didnt open the account and 
asked more questions  about how someone  else could do this. Mr B received a reply,  but 
Close Brothers didnt  give him any reassurance that they had taken steps to resolve his 
concerns. 
After a further telephone call with Close Brothers,  Mr B says he was told that the default  
could have a negative effect  on the information, on his credit file. Mr B was concerned  that 
Close Brothers hadnt resolved his query about the account, so he brought  his complaint to 
us. 
Following our initial involvement, Close Brothers sent their final response to Mr B in July 
2019. They  said they had closed the account and removed  information about it, from the 
credit reference agencies they use. They said they did this in March 2019. Close Brothers  
also said they would help Mr B with information relating to the finance agreement, showing 
with different credit reference agencies, if he had problems in the future.
Mr B didnt accept this and said Close Brothers  should contact all credit reference agencies  
to check the information they hold. He was also unhappy with the delay to provide him with 
any reassurances, and that Close Brothers still kept some information about him.
One of our investigators  considered what had happened and concluded that Close Brothers 
had already taken  the appropriate  steps, to remove the information held with credit  reference 
agencies. He also found that they did this within two months of him complaining to them. 
Mr B didnt agree and said Close Brothers  had taken  too long to remove the information  with 
the credit  reference  agencies. Mr B also said Close Brothers vetting system for finance 
agreements was weak, and they should show him that his credit file was now completely 
clear.
The investigator didnt  change his conclusions about the amendments Close Brothers had 
taken and the reassurances theyd given  to Mr B. However, more recently, the investigator  
found that Close Brothers took too long to make the amendments and this caused Mr B 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator  concluded that Close  Brothers should pay Mr B 
£100 for the impact their actions had on him.
Ref: DRN52973852Neither Mr B nor Close  Brothers accepted the investigators conclusions, so the case  has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the opening of the account
The account  with Close Brothers was opened  in November 2018. I agree with Mr B, that it 
was deeply concerning for him to find out that this had happened.  I think  its normal for Mr B 
to want to know how someone else managed to open an account in his name,  and about  the 
account opening process Close Brothers used.
Our role is to consider if Close Brothers have made  an error or mistake.  And if they have, 
that theyve taken fair and reasonable steps  to put things right. In Mr Bs case, Close  
Brothers have accepted  that the account was opened by a third party and not by him. So, 
the focus of our investigation here, is to look at the steps they took afterwards, rather  than 
how the third party  was able to open an account in his name.
After taking everything into consideration, I think Close Brothers treated Mr B fairly, by 
investigating his concerns  and agreeing  with him that the account was opened by a third 
party.
the steps taken  by Close Brothers
Close Brothers say that in March 2019  they closed the account and stopped  their pursuit of 
Mr B for repayment. They also say they contacted the credit reference agencies  they use, to 
remove any data about the account, from the information held about Mr B. Mr B says that 
Close Brothers havent gone far enough  here.  He says they should make sure all credit 
reference agencies  update any information they have about him in relation to the account.
I think Close Brothers responsibility to Mr B, is to correct the information held by the credit 
reference agencies  which they passed information  onto in the first place. Close Brothers  
have explained  that they use two agencies in particular. So, on balance, I think  its only 
those two agencies,  that held the information  about  the account  opened  in Mr Bs name.  I 
can understand why Mr B feels this might be a wider problem. But having considered  the 
evidence available  and that Mr B hasnt  told us of any incorrect information  elsewhere, I 
think Close Brothers have  treated him fairly here.  
I know Mr B feels strongly that Close  Brothers  should no longer hold information  about him. 
Although I accept what he says, I think its reasonable  that Close Brothers  are able to 
reference his complaint,  should they need to help him further.
I can see from the letters Close Brothers  have sent to Mr B, that they will help him, if he finds 
information recorded at other credit reference agencies,  about the account. So, I think 
theres reassurance  from Close Brothers,  that should Mr B encounter future  problems 
relating to the account, they will seek to put right the incorrect information with the credit 
reference agency concerned. Having considered everything, I think the offer of further help 
means Close Brothers have fulfilled  he responsibility  they owe to Mr B.
Ref: DRN52973853the delay in providing reassurances
Mr B says he contacted  Close Brothers,  to tell them about his concerns  over the direct debit, 
in November 2018. Close Brothers have  also told us that Mr B made  a call to them around 
this time, and that they started  to investigate where the goods, acquired under the 
agreement, were being sent to. So, I think Close Brothers were aware of Mr Bs concerns in 
November 2018.
Mr B made further contact with Close Brothers  in February 2019, but it took them  until July 
2019, to explain  to Mr B what  they had done to help him. I acknowledge that steps were 
taken in March  2019. But, on balance, I think this was because Mr B had raised  his concerns 
for a second  time. I think Close Brothers  should have acted sooner, when they were  told 
about the fraud in November 2018. And I think there was a four month delay in putting  
Mr Bs mind at rest, after they removed the information from the credit reference agencies  
they use.
I have considered very carefully, what Mr B has told us about the impact this has had on 
him. I agree that Mr B needed to chase Close Brothers for updates about his concerns,  and 
the thought of an unresolved fraud would have worried him. In all the circumstances, I think  
Mr B was caused distress  and inconvenience, during the months  Close Brothers took to help 
him. So, I think Close Brothers should  pay Mr B £100 for the distress  and inconvenience  
they caused. 
I also remind Close Brothers  that should  they need  to help Mr B in the future, with any 
concerns he has about the account,  that they consider doing so with appropriate pace. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Close  Brothers Limited (trading as Close 
Brothers Retail Finance)  should  pay Mr B £100, for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5297385