complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB)  wont write  off his outstanding credit card debt. He 
says because of his health issues hes unlikely  to ever be in a position to pay the debt off.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 April 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
TSB said it had no further information for me to consider and said it accepted the provisional 
decision. 
But Mr M disagreed, and over a number of further submissions  including a telephone 
conversation with an investigator   he made  the following summarised points.
He didnt think wed acted impartially.
He isnt going to repay  any of his outstanding debts to the banks as he doesnt  have 
sufficient money  to do so.
He wanted  us to be aware  of the lifetime mortgage that he has in place on his 
property, which demonstrates that he doesnt  have  any assets either  that could be 
used to repay the debt. 
Hed raised a new complaint  about  the letters  hed continued  to receive from TSB 
about his account  and wanted £100  compensation for that. But he doesnt  believe  
that complaints been addressed at all.
Mr M also provided a submission that had been  made by his Member of Parliament  (MP).  In 
this submission the question of why Id departed from the investigators initial view  that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  was raised.  Mr Ms MP said it was unfair  on Mr M for me to 
overturn the initial findings and in his view that initial outcome was correct. He thought  it was 
clear Mr M wasnt able to ever repay the debt and shouldnt  have been  lent the money in the 
first place.  
. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having carefully  considered whats been 
said I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
I can understand the strength of feeling Mr M has regarding his complaint  especially as 
Ive departed from the initial  outcome  that was reached. And I have  sympathy with 
Mr Ms position, that this change in outcome has caused him further  distress. I can assure 
Mr M it wasnt my intention to cause him more worries. 
Ref: DRN59183662Mr M has also said that we havent  dealt  with his complaint properly, as he was told I would 
be investigating his complaint point  about the letters he received from TSB after it said it 
wouldnt be contacting  him anymore. In my provisional decision I did say that Mr M has 
made a further  complaint about correspondence  he is still receiving from TSB. This matter  is 
being investigated under  a separate complaint. So to be clear,  what I'm considering here is 
Mr M's complaint about his request to have  his outstanding credit  card balance written  off. 
So I did make  it clear  what Id be considering. But I accept that we havent kept Mr M up to 
date with his other  complaint so I can understand why he assumed it would be dealt with 
here. But I now understand  Mr M has now been  contacted  and updated  about  his other 
complaint and it will be dealt with separately.
Mr Ms MP has asked  why Ive changed  the outcome of this complaint when he believes the 
investigator had a better understanding  of the case and what the correct  outcome should 
have been. He says it isnt fair for us to reverse an outcome  as it causes further  trouble  and 
upset for consumers. And as Ive said I understand Mr Ms feelings  here and accept he is 
unhappy with the change  in outcome.  
But as a service our job is to resolve  individual disputes between  consumers and businesses  
fairly and reasonably. Our process  enables consumers and businesses to ask for a decision  
if either side isnt happy with the initial assessment. Such a process  allows us to confirm if 
weve resolved things fairly and reasonably. So in this case I was able to review Mr Ms 
complaint again  and decide what I think was a fair and reasonable outcome. And Ive given 
both parties the opportunity to make  further  representations because  I came to different 
conclusion. Based on what Ive seen I still believe my decision to be correct.
As Id concluded previously theres no evidence that TSB didnt treat Mr Ms medical  and 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Having done that I would also have 
expected TSB to have provided  alternative  ways to resolve this situation.  I think TSB did that 
by asking Mr M to complete an income  and expenditure form, stopping  any interest and 
charges while  its recovery  team looked into the situation, and halting  the whole recovery  
process while Mr Ms complaint is considered. 
But I dont think its fair for me to tell TSB that it has to write off Mr Ms debt when its not 
obliged to, as long as its treated Mr M sympathetically overall.  That  wouldnt be reasonable 
as its for TSB to decide whether or not to write  of the debt. I think TSB has acted according 
to how it said it would   in line with its terms and conditions, and has tried to be positive in its 
approach to discussions with Mr M.  
Mr M has also raised the issue of the lifetime mortgage held over his property. He wants me 
to take that into consideration.  
I have considered that point very carefully and I do accept that, based on the figures 
provided, its unlikely  Mr Ms house can be used to repay his credit  card debt. But theres no 
suggestion that Mr Ms property is going to be used to repay the loan  thats why TSB want  
Mr M to complete an income and expenditure form, to determine  what,  if anything, he can 
afford to pay from his income.  I know Mr M wants me to consider his overall inability to repay 
the debt  including the lack of equity in his property. But thats a matter for TSB to decide, 
as in my view its acted positively and sympathetically in assessing Mr Ms position so far.  
Ref: DRN59183663my final decision
For the same reasons  that Ive already  given  in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr Ms complaint against TSB Bank plc, in so much  as I think what TSB has already paid 
Mr M is a fair and reasonable settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.  
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59183664copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont write  off his outstanding debt. He says because of his 
health issues hes unlikely  to ever be in a position to pay the debt off and wants  to avoid additional 
stress and anxiety.
background
Mr M held a number of credit cards  some of which  had promotional interest rates  applied. When 
these rates were coming to an end Mr M transferred some of the balances to a new card with TSB 
with a credit  limit of £1,500. Mr M made a number  of payments  but then contacted  TSB and explained  
that  because hed previously been diagnosed  with a serious medical condition, and with the 
likelihood that his income wouldnt be changing, he would  be unlikely to be able to make any further 
payments. He asked TSB if it would write  off the outstanding card balance.
TSB said that Mr M hadnt declared his medical  condition when he took out the card  so it wouldnt  
write off his debt but would  pass his account to the recovery  team and would  stop any additional  
charges and interest being applied  in order not to increase the debt.  
Mr M said the question hed been posed when completing  the application form asked if his 
circumstances were  likely to change  and as hed been diagnosed with his condition  some months 
earlier his circumstances were unlikely  to change. 
TSB said that  while  Mr M wasnt untruthful in answering the question, as his illness  hadnt changed 
since the application, and as Mr M had made a number of payments towards his balance  it was 
reasonable to treat his financial difficulties in the way it had.  It said Mr M confirmed his income hadnt 
fallen but the interest rates on his cards had increased and it was this factor  that caused him the 
problems.
As TSB wouldnt write off the debt Mr M brought his complaint to us.
In November 2018 Mr M complained to TSB about the service  hed received during his complaint and 
the time he had spent  trying to resolve the matter.
TSB accepted  it had sent Mr Ms documents to the wrong address. It apologised for its error and paid 
Mr M £325 for the inconvenience this had caused him. It also paid him £50 for any expenses  hed 
incurred.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint  should be upheld.  She thought  
Mr M was vulnerable and there was little prospect  of him paying off his outstanding debt going 
forward. So she thought  TSB should write  off the debt to stop any additional stress  and anxiety that 
might be caused over a debt that was unlikely to ever be repaid.
Mr M agreed with the investigator but TSB didnt. It said it wasnt fair for Mr M to rely on medical 
reasons to have his debt written off when he hadnt disclosed  that medical  information at the time of 
the application.  TSB said it may have reached a different  decision about  lending if it had been aware 
of his medical situation  at the time.  It also said Mr M was aware his promotional interest rates  on other 
cards were due to finish, and therefore he would have known that he might struggle to make 
payments going forward at the standard interest rates. TSB said it hadnt made  any errors  over this 
matter and was right to continue its recovery actions  whilst acting positively and sympathetically 
towards Mr M.
Mr M has confirmed to us that he isnt complaining that TSB was irresponsible in offering him the 
card. His complaint is about TSB not agreeing to write  off his debt. And I can see Mr M has made a 
further complaint  about correspondence he is still receiving from TSB. This matter is being 
investigated under a separate complaint.
Ref: DRN59183665So to be clear, what Im considering here is Mr Ms complaint about  his request to have his 
outstanding credit card balance written off.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I was sorry to hear about the serious health issues that Mr M is suffering from,  and I can understand 
that this matter is causing him significant additional stress and concern. I can also see how strongly  
he feels about  the situation  and wants it to be resolved. And I have sympathy for the position  Mr M 
finds himself  in as he believes he wont be able to repay his debt because of the medical and financial 
issues hes experiencing, so considers it would be best for all parties to write off the debt. 
But even with all that in mind, I dont think itd be fair to tell TSB to write  off his balance on the card in 
the way hed like  which I know  will disappoint Mr M, so Ill explain why.
Mr M transferred some existing card balances to TSB in March 2018 and made a number  of 
payments before he contacted  TSB and told it about his health issues and how that would affect  his 
ability to repay  his balance. 
Having been made aware of the situation I would have expected TSB to have treated Mr Ms medical  
and financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.  And I think  it did that by listening to Mr M, 
asking him to complete an income  and expenditure form to look at his circumstances, and then by 
stopping the interest and other  charges while TSBs  recovery team  considered his position. I note the 
recovery of the debt has been put on hold while this complaint is being considered.
I know Mr M wants TSB to write  off his debt  but theres no obligation on TSB to agree  to do that. Its 
a general principle that where a customer has borrowed money  from a business, its fair to expect 
them to pay this back on the terms that they borrowed it. There are a range of other options that can 
be considered  to help a customer  when  theyre experiencing difficulties, without writing off a debt.
I think  TSBs approach  of trying to establish Mr Ms financial position  when he told it he was unlikely to 
repay his debt, and then to suspend  all charges and interest was a reasonable one. And I think  if Mr 
M had completed the income  and expenditure form as requested TSB may have considered a wider 
range of measures as well. So I dont  think  TSB acted unfairly there.
Mr M has confirmed that his medical condition  was diagnosed before he transferred his other credit 
cards to TSB and that his income hasnt changed during that time. He says its the interest rate on his 
cards that have caused  the problem and his health issues prevent him from being able to improve  his 
income position.  But I note he was able to make a number  of payments before he told TSB he 
couldnt make  any more. That wouldve  suggested  to TSB that he could maintain the card as intended 
 so I think its reasonable for TSB to have asked  Mr M to confirm  his income and expenditure  
position before it set out any repayment  alternatives.
As Ive already said TSB is entitled to decide whether or not to write off a debt. And ultimately here  I 
think TSB has acted fairly  and reasonably towards Mr M and his financial situation. TSB has been 
sympathetic to Mr M and has laid out other options that are available and has also continued  to take 
action to help him, including freezing any further charges. TSB does have duty to accurately  record 
Mr Ms credit activity  with it which I think it has done here. 
I note Mr M also complained  about the level of service hed had from TSB during his complaint  and 
the extra  time  and additional stress  this had cost him. But I note TSB has accepted this and paid 
him a total of £375 for the impact this had on him as well as the impact of sending  documents  to an 
incorrect address.  In the circumstances  I think  thats a fair settlement  to have made, and Im not going 
to ask TSB to do anything further.
Ref: DRN59183666my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im not minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint,  in so much as I think what TSB 
has already  paid Mr M is a fair and reasonable  settlement.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918366