K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Eldon Insurance Services Ltd (trading  as Go Skippy)  misled him into entering into 
a finance agreement to cover  the cost of his car insurance policy. He says he didnt know it 
was a loan for premium  finance.
background
Mr G bought his car insurance online through a comparison website. During his online 
journey, he said he wanted to pay for his policy by monthly instalments. But he says he 
didnt know this meant he was entering  into a loan agreement with a third party  company.
Mr G complained to Go Skippy  that hed been  misled about the finance. He didnt  sign the 
loan agreement he was subsequently sent by the third party  company and he cancelled his 
direct debit for his monthly instalments. But he didnt cancel his car insurance policy.
Go Skippy didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said its terms  of business, which it says Mr G 
agreed to, made it clear his premium instalment plan was with a finance  provider and not Go 
Skippy.
So Mr G complained to us. The adjudicator who looked at Mr Gs complaint  didnt  think  Go 
Skippy had done  anything  wrong. Mr G disagrees and so his complaint  has come to me to 
decide.
I should make it clear my decision here only deals with Mr Gs complaint that Go Skippy 
misled him about the finance arrangements when he bought  the policy. It doesnt, for 
example, deal with any concerns Mr G may have about any fees the third party company 
may subsequently  have  charged him in relation to the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done do, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. I know  this will disappoint  him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
When Mr G was getting his car insurance  quote on the comparison site and said he wanted  
to pay for his insurance by instalments, I think its quite likely  a message popped up on the 
site saying monthly repayment terms usually have an interest  charge. 
When Mr G subsequently  completed his application  on Go Skippys  website, I think  its likely 
he was told he had selected to pay by direct  debit. I think its also likely he was told what  
deposit hed need to pay and what his subsequent  11 monthly instalments would be. And 
finally I think hed have  been told what the total cost of the policy was (including the broker  
fee and the direct debit fee) and what the interest rate for the credit  was.
Mr G would also have accepted Go Skippys  terms of business as part of the sales process.  
In a section headed Payment of premiums and refunds these  do make it clear  that, if the 
insurance isnt paid for upfront,  a premium instalment plan is set up with a third party 
company  and the details of that company are given. But I do accept that these details 
Ref: DRN50169912arent particularly prominent. Theyre set out on page 7 of a 10 page document,  and its quite 
possible Mr G didnt click on the link to look at them  during his application.
But on the same  day Mr G applied for the insurance, Go Skippy sent him a welcome letter.  
Among other  things, it sets out Mr Gs cancellation rights during the 14 day cooling off 
period. The letter also has a section about  the payment of his premium.  And it clearly  sets 
out that Mr G has selected a finance  option with the third party company, whose name  
appears in the letter  twice. The letter also sets out the total amount  payable under the 
finance arrangements, the amount of interest  to be charged, the charge for setting up the 
finance and the direct debit arrangement fee.
Taking all of this information into account,  on balance,  I think  Go Skippy made it reasonably  
clear when Mr G was buying his car insurance  that his premium  instalments were being 
financed by a loan from a third party  company. I dont think it was would be fair and 
reasonable to say Go Skippy misled  him about  the finance. And if Mr G was unhappy with 
the arrangement, he did have  the option  to cancel the policy within  the 14 day cooling off 
period.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5016991