K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave him loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr A was given two loans  by Ferratum. He borrowed £300  in January 2018, and repaid that 
loan later that month. On the same day as his repayment he then borrowed £400 that was 
due to be repaid  in four monthly instalments. After making the first two repayments Mr A 
complained to Ferratum  that it shouldnt have lent to him. In response Ferratum told Mr A 
that it would  remove  all the interest  from his second  loan, and would accept a total 
repayment of the principal  he borrowed  plus a small administration fee. So Mr A repaid the 
revised outstanding  balance  to close the loan.
Mr As complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  that the checks 
Ferratum did before agreeing the loans  had been  sufficient. And since those checks 
suggested that the loans  were affordable for Mr A he didnt  think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ferratum was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks  to see whether Mr A 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr A was borrowing, and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Ferratum  had to do.
Ferratum has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr A. Before agreeing each 
loan it asked Mr A for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it verified  some  
of that information  by checking Mr As details  with a credit reference agency. Although Ive 
not seen the full results of that check Im not aware of any adverse information that I think  
should have caused additional concerns  to the lender.
Mr As first loan was repayable was repayable around three  weeks later.  His second  loan 
was repayable in four monthly  instalments so the amounts that Mr A needed to repay  each 
time on his second  loan were smaller than if hed taken a normal  payday  loan.  But of course 
he was committing to making those repayments  over a longer period.
Both loans  that Mr A took were relatively modest  compared to the income he declared to 
Ferratum. And the repayments he needed  to make appeared to be easily  affordable based 
on what hed said about his expenditure. Given the early stage of its relationship  with Mr A 
I think it was reasonable  for Ferratum to base  its affordability assessment on the information 
provided by him. 
Ref: DRN51979562Mr A says that his financial  situation  was worse than he told Ferratum.  He says his bank 
statements prove he couldnt afford the loans. But that wasnt  something he told Ferratum 
when he applied for the loans. And I dont  think it was something that Ferratum should  have 
discovered from what I consider to be proportionate checks. It was entitled here to use the 
information provided by Mr A at the time. I dont think Ferratum  did anything  wrong  in giving 
these loans to Mr A.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Ferratum UK Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5197956