K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Haven Insurance  Company  Limited cancelled his commercial  motor 
insurance policy. He wants  the cancellation marker  removed and compensation.
background 
Another driver contacted Haven to say Mr B was involved in an incident and to make  a 
claim. Haven  wrote  to Mr B twice asking him to contact it or indemnity  would  be withdrawn in 
14 days. It then instructed  his broker to cancel the policy as it said Mr B hadnt  co-operated  
with it in regard  to a claim. Mr B received a text about this and he called Haven immediately. 
Haven later closed  the claim and recorded it as for notification only.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Haven 
hadnt done enough to try to contact  Mr B before cancelling the policy. She thought it should 
have called or emailed  him. So she didnt think it was fair to say Mr B wasnt  co-operating 
with the claim. As it turned out, no claim was made.  So Haven wasnt  prejudiced  by Mr B not 
contacting it sooner. So she thought it should  remove the cancellation marker, pay Mr B 
£200 compensation for his trouble and upset  and reimburse his premiums with interest.
Haven replied that it or the broker had sent Mr B four letters  before  cancellation.  It said it 
wasnt responsible  for Mr B not receiving  these. It said Mr B should have notified it of the 
incident within 24 hours and co-operated  with the claims handler in order to defend liability. It 
also thought the other  driver could still raise a claim. However,  it arranged  to make Mr B a 
pro-rata refund of premium since the cancellation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Haven  on 27 September  2019. I summarise  my findings:
I could understand  that Mr B has been confused  and frustrated by the cancellation  of his 
policy and the service he received subsequently. I could also see that the cancellation  has 
affected his ability to work.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  in cancelling  Mr Bs policy.  
Haven relied on a condition in the policy to cancel it. This condition stated that Mr B must 
report any claim, accident or loss within 24 hours.  It then said Mr B must provide information 
about the incident that may lead to a claim. It said failure to comply with this condition could 
lead to the policy being cancelled. 
I thought it was a fairly common requirement  for consumers to notify  insurers  of incidents  
that may lead to claims and also to co-operate with claims handlers. I thought  that this 
enables the insurer  to defend the claim if necessary. So I thought Haven could normally rely 
on failure to comply with this to cancel the policy. But I didnt think  this was fair and 
reasonable in these  particular circumstances. Ill now explain why I thought this. 
Ref: DRN59202712I thought Haven cancelled the policy prematurely  and it didnt use Mr Bs preferred means of 
communication, email,  to contact him and so didnt give Mr B enough  time to respond to its 
requests. 
Haven sent Mr B its first letter requesting information about the alleged incident when it 
received notification from the other  drivers representative. Mr B didnt respond immediately, 
so two days after the first letter it then sent a second letter asking him to make contact within 
14 days or indemnity  would be withdrawn.  But it sent its letter withdrawing indemnity only 
10 days later. Three days later, it instructed the broker to issue  a seven day notice of 
cancellation letter. I saw that this was sent by post and email. And then after the notice 
period had expired, the cancellation was confirmed by post and text. 
Mr B said he didnt  receive any letters or emails. But I saw they were sent to the correct 
address, so I couldnt say Haven didnt send them.  But Mr B responded to the cancellation 
text immediately and provided the information  that Haven required about the incident. So I 
thought that if Haven  had used other means  to try to contact Mr B earlier, the cancellation 
could have been avoided. 
As it turned out, Haven  held the claim open  for six months before closing it and recording  it 
as for notification only. So it hasnt incurred any losses because of the claim and it now has 
the information it requested to defend the claim if needed. So I couldnt see that Mr B not 
responding sooner caused  Haven  any prejudice. And so following our approach, I didnt 
think the cancellation was fair for this reason and I thought Mr B shouldnt be penalised for 
this. 
So I thought  the policy was cancelled  unfairly and Haven should put things right.  I thought it 
should remove the cancellation  marker  from Mr Bs record so that it didnt affect his ability  to 
obtain cover  in the future.  Haven refunded Mr Bs premium for the unused  part of his policy  
as the claim has been closed. I thought  that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator also thought that in the circumstances Haven should also refund the full 
premium. And as Mr B has been without his money for some time,  she thought it should add 
interest to this refund. But I thought that as Haven provided Mr B with cover for three  
months, then he should reasonably pay for this period of cover. This is because  without the 
unfair cancellation, Mr B would have had to pay for his cover  during this period in any case. 
Mr B relied on his van for his employment.  When  his policy  was cancelled, he then took out 
temporary cover for three weeks at the cost of £431  so that he could continue working. But 
he found this temporary  cover too expensive to continue and has been  looking for alternative 
work since then. 
As Haven  cancelled Mr Bs policy unfairly,  to restore his position I thought it should refund 
Mr B the difference between what he paid for his three weeks  cover and what  he would have 
paid for this period if his policy had continued.
Mr B also said that he hadnt  been  able to work because of the unfair  cancellation and he 
asked for consideration of his loss of earnings. He previously raised this issue  with Haven so 
I was able to consider  this. I thought Haven should reasonably  compensate Mr B for his loss 
of earnings due to his being unable to drive  his van. Mr B provided evidence of his income 
from his job before the cancellation. This averaged  £1,372 a fortnight. 
Ref: DRN59202713But I didnt think it would  be fair to require Haven  to pay Mr B for his lost income for the 
entire period hes been out of work.  Our approach is that consumers should  mitigate  their 
losses. Mr B has explained that hes been seeking  alternative work and receiving 
unemployment benefits. I thought that it would be fair and reasonable for Haven to pay Mr B 
half what he would have  earned for two months, £2,744.  This takes  into account his 
unemployment benefits and reasonable time for him to have found alternative work. 
Mr B has been caused upset and frustration by Havens unfair  cancellation of his policy.  Hes 
provided us with medical evidence to show that this has affected his health. I thought Haven 
should also compensate him for this. The investigator recommended £200  and I thought  this 
was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award  in similar  circumstances.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or Haven, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven responded to my provisional  decision that it had nothing further to add. Mr B replied 
adding further  information about  his personal  circumstances.  He explained  that hed been 
unable to find alternative employment for nine months and thought Haven should 
compensate him for this. 
I can understand that Mr B feels that Haven should  compensate him for his loss of income 
for the past nine months. As Ive explained  above, our approach is that consumers should  
take action to mitigate their losses. And I think Mr B has reasonably done that. Mr B provided  
evidence that hes been seeking work,  but without success. He also provided evidence of 
the unemployment benefits hes received in this time. So Mr B hasnt been without some 
resources. 
But whilst I think  Haven unfairly cancelled  Mr Bs policy,  I cant  reasonably hold it 
responsible for Mr Bs failing to obtain work.  And so I dont require Haven to pay Mr B 
compensation for his loss of earnings  until he finds employment. I still think  two months 
compensation, at the rate of half his loss of previous income,  is fair and reasonable. I think  
this takes into account  the unemployment  benefits  Mr B received  and reasonable time for 
him to have  found an alternative job.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to do the following:
1.Remove the cancellation  marker  from Mr Bs record.
2.Refund Mr B the difference  between what he paid for 21 days  temporary  cover  and what  
he would  have  paid if his policy had continued.
3.Pay Mr B £2,744 compensation for his loss of earnings due to the unfair cancellation of 
his policy. 
Ref: DRN592027144.Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5920271