K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2000. Mrs L says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague  thought Capital Ones 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because  of the non-disclosure  of high 
commission and profit share Mrs L paid, was fair in the circumstances.
The representatives that first brought Mrs Ls complaint  disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion  they didnt raise  any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. Mrs L has since also confirmed she would like 
a final decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I havent  set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Capital One made it clear  Mrs L didnt have to take the PPI and she chose  to take 
it. I say this because although shes said PPI was just included with her card, her postal 
application form for the card had a Payment Protection section with boxes to select to 
say either yes or no to the PPI. On Mrs Ls form, which she signed to take the card,  the 
yes box was selected - and I think she wouldve known to select the no box instead if 
she didnt want the cover.
Ref: DRN51730312Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L - so it didnt have to check  the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs L enough  clear and timely  information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it, and I dont  think she wouldve  taken  it without a 
broad idea of what it provided, so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. She wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover. For example, she didnt 
have health issues  the policy mightve  excluded, and her employment  situation wouldnt 
have made it difficult for her to claim.
Overall the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for her and I dont think  it likely  it was too 
dissimilar to what its likely Mrs L, from the information she had, thought  she was buying. 
It also looks like it was affordable. Also, Mrs L has told us she wouldve got less than 
three months full sick pay from her job and didnt have savings to pay her card with if 
she couldnt work. So the PPI benefit wouldve been useful for her. Ive also thought  
about what shes said about her husband helping, but other peoples circumstances and 
ability to help can change.
With all this in mind, I dont think Mrs L wouldve declined the cover had Capital One 
done anything  more.
While  it contained limitations  or exclusions on claims relating to back  and mental health 
conditions, in light of her circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for Mrs L. So I think she 
wouldve still thought  she had some good  reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mrs L wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its 
likely she thought she was getting  and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time,  
given her circumstances at the time.  And, in those circumstances,  I think she wouldve taken 
the policy in any event.
The representative that brought the complaint  to us initially for Mrs L raised  a number of 
what I consider to be general  complaint  points,  which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  Capital One 
should have disclosed  the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
The representative didnt  say how these points apply to the specific  facts  and circumstances 
of Mrs Ls individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ls particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
Ref: DRN51730313non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital  One should have disclosed the commission it received  
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mrs L about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mrs L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell her about the high levels  of commission and profit  share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs L because it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
The representative that first brought the complaint for Mrs L made a number of 
representations about this part of the complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  it said Mrs L should  get back all the money she paid for the policy because: 
Capital One failed to tell Mrs L about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it said that meant the 
policy was poor value, it said I should  find Mrs L wouldnt have taken the policy had she 
known about the level of commission  and she should receive a refund of all the premiums  
she paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN51730314But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs L in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by Capital One not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as the representative that first brought Mrs Ls complaint suggested, driven  to 
conclude that she wouldnt  have purchased the policy  but for Capital Ones failure to 
disclose the level of commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate  compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs L paid for her PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mrs L 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Capital One had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that Capital  Ones payment of an amount equivalent to the commission  and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Capital  One has already paid Mrs L compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further.  
Ref: DRN51730315my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Ls complaint or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Capital 
One (Europe)  plc should pay Mrs L an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit  share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus  associated  interest  where applicable). As 
Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid compensation  on this basis,  I do not consider that 
Capital One (Europe) plc should do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5173031