K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Miss M and Mrs M payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage, which 
started in 2001,  and then with a further  advance in 2008.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss M and Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The first sale of the PPI policies took place a long time ago and not all the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall  in 
detail everything  that happened so many years  ago when the application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Miss M and Mrs M have said they were led to believe  that the PPI was part of the 
mortgage and that they didnt have an option. However, from what  we know of the 
documents used  at the time by Bank of Scotland, its likely  the PPI was presented as a 
choice. Miss M has said this doesnt show what the character of the bank employees 
was. And I agree  that this is true. However  it wouldnt be fair for me to decide the 
employees had acted wrongly  in the way Miss M says she remembers, without stronger 
supporting evidence. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss M and Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Being unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Miss M (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back on 
any savings, or other help. This all would have put Miss M and Mrs M in a more secure 
position, if they eventually lost income  due to Miss Ms long term sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Ref: DRN55977372Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Miss M and Mrs M took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Miss M and Mrs M would have been affected by any of these. Its 
likely they were  eligible  for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5597737