K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms L took out 12 loans from QuickQuid between October 2011 and December 2014. Ms L 
topped up one of her loans  loan eight  by taking additional borrowing on two occasions  
after the original  loan. 
Ms L didnt  pay any interest on loans  six and 10. Ive included  those loans in the summary of 
Ms Ls borrowing from QuickQuid in the appendix to this decision as its not clear to me 
whether those loans  were  cancelled or repaid early.  So, those loans may show  on Ms Ls 
credit file.
Loan 11 was a FlexCredit loan that provided Ms L with a revolving credit facility. 
All of Ms Ls loans  have been repaid. 
QuickQuid initially said that Ms Ls complaint about the first loan was made too late. One of 
our adjudicators didnt  agree and said that we could look at all the loans QuickQuid gave to 
Ms L. QuickQuid agreed that we could do so. 
Ms Ls complaint has been assessed  by one of our team managers. He thought that 
QuickQuid shouldnt have  agreed  to lend loans three to six and from and including  the first 
top-up on loan eight onwards. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with that assessment. As the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, its been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Ms L accepts  my decision, its legally  binding on both parties.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Ms L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN52761952the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Ms L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties. In particular,  the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, there are three separate periods of lending here. Thats  
because there were breaks in lending between loans one and two and six and seven such  
that Ive looked at the three periods  of lending separately;  loan one; loans two to six and 
loans seven to 12. 
At the beginning  of each period of lending, there wasnt anything  in the information 
Ms L provided or the information QuickQuid shouldve been aware of, which meant  it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what Ms L was saying about her financial 
position. What  that means here is that I dont think QuickQuid was wrong to give Ms L loans 
one, two seven  or the initial amount for loan eight. 
But proportionate checks for loans three and the first top up of loan eight would most likely 
have shown that the repayments for those loans represented a significant proportion of 
Ms Ls income. In those  circumstances, there was a significant risk that Ms L wouldnt  have 
been able to meet her existing commitments  without having to borrow again. So, I think its 
unlikely Ms L would have been able to meet her repayments for loans three  to six  in the 
second period  of borrowing or from the first top-up of loan eight in the third period of 
borrowing  and any subsequent loans. So, I dont think that QuickQuid  should  have given  
Ms L these  loans.
Ref: DRN52761953Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Ms L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ls case,  I think that this point was reached by loan 
nine. I say this because by loan nine,  Ms Ls overall pattern of borrowing  suggested  that she 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. Ms L had taken  out five loans  or 
top-ups in approximately seven  months  and the amounts she was borrowing didnt decrease 
significantly for the rest of the borrowing  relationship. I think that from loan nine onwards, the 
pattern of borrowing itself shows  that the loans  from here were  unsustainable. So, I dont  
think that QuickQuid  should have given  Ms L loans nine to 12. 
I think that Ms L lost out because QuickQuid gave  her loan nine onwards because the later 
loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Ms Ls indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. And the 
number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Ms Ls ability  to access 
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, in addition to loans three  to six in the second period of borrowing  and from the first top-
up of loan eight  in the third period of borrowing, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 
nine to 12. 
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms L paid on loans three, four, five, the first and 
second top-up of loan eight, loan nine, 11 and 12 (Ms L didnt pay any interest on 
loans six and 10);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans three, four, five, six and the two top-ups  
of loan eight from Ms Ls credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan nine onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan nine onwards should  be removed 
from Ms Ls credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN52761954my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Ls complaint in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  
trading as QuickQuid  should pay Ms L compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52761955appendix  summary of Ms Ls borrowing from QuickQuid
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of repayments  
at outsetdate repaid
first period  of lending
1 29 October 2011 450 2 15 December 
2011
second period  of lending
2 4 September 
2012600 2 28 November 
2012
3 2 December 
20121,000 1 12 December 
2012
4 1 January 2013 1,500 3 4 April 2013
5 17 May 3013 500 2 23 May 2013
6 28 May 2013 200 2 28 May 2013
third period  of lending
7 27 November 
2013200 3 28 November 
2013
8 3 January 2014/
7 January 2014/
13 February 
2017600/
500/
4003 20 March 2014
9 14 June 2014 500 1 27 June 2014
10 27 June 2014 300 1 27 June 2014
11 2 October 2014 500 revolving credit 
facility28 October 2014
12 11 December 
2014300 3 10 January 2015
Ref: DRN5276195