K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr P and Ms K say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr P and Ms K took out an PPI policy with their mortgage  in 1997. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr P and Ms Ks case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr P and Ms K and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr P and Ms K aware they had a choice in buying  the policy. Mr P 
and Ms K say it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr P and Ms K have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think  
thats surprising,  given that the policy was sold over 20 years  ago. But it does mean I have  
limited information about  the sale, so I have to decide what  I think  is likely to have  happened,  
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear. And nothing Mr P and Ms K have told me makes  
me think Halifax didnt  follow its normal process here. So overall I think  its more  likely 
Halifax made it clear to Mr P and Ms K they had a choice about  the PPI, and they agreed  to 
it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr P and Ms K. So, it had to check it was right for them.  
Looking at Mr P and Ms Ks circumstances  Mr Ps in particular as the policy  was split 
100% to Mr P and 0% to Ms K  they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  Mr P wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr P says he would  have received a good level of sick pay benefits from his employer. But 
the policy would have paid out alongside  his employee benefits and this included if he was 
made redundant. I note that Mr P and Ms K say they had some savings but having the policy  
wouldve had meant those savings could have  been  used to cover other essential costs if 
Mr P was unable to work. 
So, it seems  they had a need for the policy. Mr P and Ms K were  borrowing funds against  a 
large and long-term  financial  commitment, which was secured on their home.  So, I think 
having the security  that their mortgage  repayments would be made if Mr P was unable  to 
work would have been important to them.
Ref: DRN55065902Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr P and Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But Mr P and Ms K chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr P and Ms K off taking out the cover. And overall, I dont think 
Mr P and Ms K have lost about by anything Halifax might have done wrong. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing  to Mr P and Ms K. I know theyve put a 
lot of time and effort into their complaint  and feel strongly it was mis-sold to them. Its always 
difficult to decide  a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought  very carefully  about  
what Mr P and Ms K have said and what I know of Halifaxs sales processes. And I dont 
think  on balance  I can fairly  and reasonably uphold their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5506590