K820x#14complaint
Mr A is complaining that etika  Finance  UK Limited  (trading  as Paybreak) wont  refund what 
he paid for a training course.  He brings the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 (S75).
background
Mr A says,  in January 2017, he was approached by a training provider  who I shall refer to 
as G  selling him an IT course. He entered into the course which  cost £5,300. He paid 
£2,000 on his credit card and financed the remaining £3,300 through a fixed  sum loan 
agreement provided  by Paybreak.
In September  2018 Mr A contacted Paybreak to raise a claim under S75 for the following  
reasons:
1.He says he wasnt told what training the course  would provide;
2.He thinks the course was only suitable  for people whove been working in the industry. 
He thinks G should have done  an assessment of him to work out whether the course  
was suitable for him;
3.He says the sales person told him G would  be flexible to take into account his working 
pattern, but he was often only given a weeks notice of when the course  modules  started.  
So wasnt able to attend the training sessions;
4.He wasnt given  the training books he needed to complete the course until over a year 
after he entered into the course.
Paybreak partly upheld Mr As claim as it acknowledged Mr A didnt receive some of his 
books at the start. But it said Mr A had only attended 29 hours  of his lectures and hed 
missed 217 hours of lectures. And it said on only two occasions was he given less than three 
weeks notice of the training sessions. It also thought G had engaged  with Mr A to look to 
rearrange any training  where Mr A couldnt  attend. 
Paybreak said there had to be some element of onus on the customer to assess if the 
qualifications being offered by the chosen  course provider are the correct  choice  for them  
personally. So it thought it was for Mr A to assess whether the course was suitable for him or 
not.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
Mr A has raised  a number of reasons why hes unhappy Paybreak hasnt upheld  his S75 
claim. I havent commented  on each and every point  hes raised.  No discourtesy is meant by 
this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In this decision Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key complaint points.
Mr A paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that, in certain  circumstances,  as the finance provider, Paybreak is 
jointly liable for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier   G. Im satisfied  
those circumstances  apply here.
Further to this, section  56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 has the effect  of making  G the 
agent of Paybreak during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr A entering into the 
loan agreement, starting from when he was first approached by G. So essentially, this 
Ref: DRN50757842means Paybreak is responsible for the acts or omissions of G in relation  to the sale of the 
loan to Mr A. In other  words, Paybreak  has to stand behind the things  G said,  did, didnt say, 
or didnt  do during the sales process.
Mr A says that G misrepresented the course to him and also breached  the terms of the 
contract. I shall address each point separately.
misrepresentation
Mr A says G gave him a number of assurances that the course  dates would be flexible  to fit 
around his work pattern   he worked  four days in a row and then four days off. He also 
thinks the course was only suitable for people  whove  been working in the IT industry  for at 
least six months. And he thinks G should have explained this to him at the time.
Mr A thinks  G used  unfair sales techniques to induce him to entering  into the course. He 
says G contacted him directly as it said it had found  his details on a recruitment  website. And 
he said G told him he was the right candidate  for the services  they provide.  He says he was 
promised hed get a job paying  at least £28,000  on the completion of the course.
As I said,  Paybreak can be held jointly liable for any misrepresentation by G. But I think  its 
important to distinguish  between a strong sales pitch and where G made  a false statement of 
fact that induced Mr A to enter into the contract. I also need to think whether G omitted to tell 
Mr A something important that he needed to know. 
Ultimately, it was Mr As responsibility to decide  whether  the course was suitable  for him. But 
G did have to give Mr A enough information to make an informed choice. That said, Im not 
persuaded Ive seen  enough to say G did mis-sell the course.  Mr A says the course was only 
suitable for individuals whod been working in the IT industry for at least  six months. But I 
havent seen anything to show that there  was a minimum  requirement to be eligible to enrol 
onto the course.  
It seems  to me that it was Mr As perception that the course was for individuals whod  
worked in the IT industry for a number of months. But I note the initial  course module is 
introduction to desktop support, which suggests  the initial training is designed to give the 
initial basic  support  to build knowledge. It seems Mr A was struggling with the content of the 
course. But Im also conscious that he didnt attend the majority of the lectures. Ultimately, 
Im not persuaded G misrepresented the level of experience required for Mr A to attend the 
course.
Ive also thought about Mr As comment that he was given  assurances that G would  be able 
to adapt the course dates to accommodate  his working patterns. I think  its likely  G did tell 
Mr A that it could look to accommodate  Mr As working pattern. But Im not persuaded this 
was a false statement. From the communication Ive seen, it does  seem  G did seek  to do so. 
I can see in February 2017  G did ask Mr A to come  and theyd  look to try and arrange some  
suitable options. Further to this, I can see it spoke  to Mr A on the telephone and in person to 
look to booking him onto course modules on days that were suitable  for him. So Im satisfied 
it did do what it said it would and look to try and accommodate Mr A.
I note Mr A says he wasnt told what the course  entailed. But I havent  seen anything to 
show that Mr A complained that the course wasnt what was expected until over a year after 
it started and, by then,  hed already  been invited to a number of the course  modules and 
Ref: DRN50757843attended around 30 hours of lectures.  So I dont  think Ive seen  anything  to show  Mr A was 
misled about what the course entailed. 
Ultimately, I dont think Ive seen enough to say G did misrepresent the course to Mr A. So I 
dont think it was unfair for Paybreak to say its not liable for any losses Mr A may have 
incurred.
breach of contract
In addition to the specific  terms of the training course contract, legislation   in this case  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)   implied a term into the contract that G had to provide 
the course with reasonable care and skill. Ive looked at whether I think  G has breached an 
express or implied term of the contract.
Mr A says he wasnt given the training books and I can see he didnt receive three of his text 
books for around  a year. G has explained  Mr A was supposed to be given the books on the 
first day of a course module. But, ultimately Mr A only attended around 29 hours of the 
lectures and missed 217 hours of lectures.  And I think this is the reason that Mr A didnt 
receive all the materials  he was expecting to receive.  I dont think  G is responsible  for this, 
so I dont think Paybreak is required to compensate Mr A for him not receiving his text 
books.
I note Mr A says he didnt attend  the courses because  G wasnt flexible with its course dates. 
But, as I said above, it does seem that G did look to arrange lectures. Mr A says G didnt 
give him any notice when it enrolled him onto a course module. Paybreak  acknowledged that 
there were two incidents where Mr A was only given 10 days  notice, but it said G did look to 
accommodate Mr As situation by rebooking the course.
As I said previously, Ive seen enough to show G did look to accommodate  Mr As working 
practice. I dont think I can reasonably hold G responsible for the fact that Mr A didnt attend  
the majority of the lectures.
Ultimately, I dont think Mr A has shown that hes lost out as a result of any breach of 
contract by G. So I dont think I can reasonably hold Paybreak liable for any losses  that he 
has suffered.
Mr A didnt accept my provisional  decision and he resent all the documentation hed 
previously provided setting out why he thinks the course was mis-sold and wasnt suitable  
for his needs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the documentation  Mr A has sent in response to my provisional decision.  But 
the majority of these  hes provided before and I had considered them before I issued my 
provisional decision. However I have also listened to the call recording hes provided when 
he discussed his concerns  with G. I understand Mr A believes this call shows  G accepts it 
mis-sold the course. But Im not persuaded that is the case. 
Ref: DRN50757844It seems  to me that the complaint handler  was trying to find a way to assist  Mr A and get him 
back on track. But I dont think theres anything  from this call that makes  me think what I said 
in my provisional decision was unfair. I acknowledge that the call handler has said that the 
gold course Mr A took out was for people with some previous IT experience. But Mr A also 
said hed attended  some IT courses in the past. And the complaint handler  said people  can 
complete the course with limited  experience.  I still remain of the belief that Mr A struggled 
with the course  because  of the number  of modules he failed to attend.  And I dont think Ive 
seen enough for me to say that G misrepresented the level of experience  required for Mr A 
to attend the course.
Ultimately Mr A hasnt given me anything materially new to think  about  so I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I dont 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075784