K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about how The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  
(NFU) dealt with her claim  following an oil leak and fire at her property.
background
Mrs H had a home and lifestyle insurance policy  with NFU. In August 2017  she noticed there 
was a split in the side of the plastic oil storage tank on the grounds of the property and 
kerosene was leaking  out of it. She and her husband attempted  to fix this with joint sealer. 
However shortly after this they noticed the tank had caught fire. The tank was destroyed and 
the fire spread to the thatched roof of the property. It was extinguished by the fire and rescue 
service.
Mrs H made  a claim on her policy. NFU appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. Due 
to the extensive  leak of kerosene the loss adjuster instructed an environmental specialist to 
inspect the site in order  to assess  the amount of oil still present in the ground. The specialist 
put together  a scope of works based  on their inspection  which  highlighted the need for the 
ground to be excavated.  Work began soon after. 
Shortly after the claim concluded Mrs H received  a renewal  notice for her policy. The 
premium for the following  year had increased by around 67%. She asked NFU for a 
breakdown of the cost of the previous  claim.  On receiving this she made  a complaint to it. 
She said NFU had spent  too much on the claim without her authorisation. She said it 
appointed the loss adjuster without  advising  her and they got too high a price for the work 
from the environmental expert. She said if she had known the size of the claim, she would 
have arranged to have the work done herself  at a cheaper cost or not had it done at all. She 
said the size of the claim had caused the significant increase in premiums  for the following 
year and this wasnt fair.
NFU didnt uphold  her complaint. It said it appointed its loss adjuster on a delegated 
authority basis so they project manage  the claim. It also said the oil spillage  had an 
environmental impact  so it was necessary for the specialist to be appointed to rectify this. 
Finally it said the specialist used was an approved supplier at contracted  rates  and this 
wouldnt usually be discussed  with the policy holder, however  it thought  it unlikely Mrs H 
would be able to obtain a lower cost for the work.
Mrs H wasnt happy with NFUs response. She said a lot of the oil had burnt away after the 
fire and the environmental specialist had commented that if it was left, then it would just 
dissipate into the ground. She therefore thought the extensive works were unnecessary.  She 
brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said she had investigated  the price increase of the premium and only a fraction  of this 
had been due to the claim, as the increase was largely down to the previous years premium 
being calculated  incorrectly. Further  she said the work needed to be carried  out due to 
environmental implications and it seemed unlikely Mrs H would be able to make a saving  by 
getting the work done herself.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators  assessment, so the complaint has come  to me for 
a decision.
Ref: DRN50407772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H doesnt think its fair that NFU appointed  a loss adjuster to deal with her claim and that 
she wasnt consulted about  the cost of the claim. I need to consider whether NFU has 
treated Mrs H fairly while handling her claim and if not, what  impact its actions have had on 
her.
When a policyholder raises a claim with an insurer, the insurer will go about settling the 
claim and repairing any damage  in the way it sees fit. It states  in the policy that covers the 
date of Mrs Hs claim:
We may,  at our option,  replace your buildings or arrange for repairs  to be carried out.
It also states:
We, or anyone appointed  by us, may:
Enter any building where damage  has taken place and take control  of the remains
This confirms that NFU has the right to appoint others to carry out work for it and can settle a 
claim in anyway it thinks is necessary.
Mrs H says that this wording didnt appear in the policy sent when she originally took it out. 
And she says she should have  been  informed when it was added to the policy as it is a 
significant change  to the terms. Although I understand  Mrs Hs concerns about the change in 
policy wording, this is a standard, and not unusual term in insurance policies. It is only when 
a significant or unusual  term is added,  that we would expect the insurer  to make  
policyholders aware. In this case, I dont  think it changed the way NFU handled claims. It just 
made its approach  clearer to policyholders.  I therefore dont agree that this is something that 
would need to be explicitly pointed out if added to a policy.  
Insurers wont have a full range of expertise in order to carry out all the work needed in a 
claim. They therefore rely on appointing  contractors who do have this expertise. This is both 
usual and reasonable.
When Mrs H raised  the claim with NFU she was essentially  asking it to deal with the claim 
and associated repairs. Although costs to the insurer werent discussed with Mrs H, NFU did 
inform her of the work that would take place. And Mrs H agreed for this work  to go ahead. 
She was also provided with the reports carried out by the expert contractors.  So I dont 
agree that NFU has acted unfairly  or in a way that wasnt transparent by appointing a loss 
adjuster and allowing them to appoint further specialists to carry out the required work.
Mrs H says if she had known about  the cost of the excavation work, she wouldnt have 
agreed to it and would have  arranged  to have it done herself at a cheaper cost. She says 
NFU acted in an unfair and non-transparent  way by not sharing the costs with her. 
I have considered this. It isnt normal practise  for insurers to share costs  with consumers 
when the claim isnt being cash  settled.  These  costs  are for the insurer to negotiate and pay. 
So I dont  think this is unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN50407773I also think its unlikely Mrs H would have made a saving if she had known the cost.  Insurers 
generally have  contracts  with specialists that they will use regularly. Due to this they are 
often able to negotiate cheaper rates than consumers can get by going direct. The work  
carried out in relation  to the excavation  to ensure the oil was removed from the ground, is 
specialist work. So it would need to be carried out by qualified  experts.  So although the 
amount may seem high to Mrs H, this isnt because the insurer  obtained a poor price, but 
instead because  the work  required extensive testing and a specialist to carry it out.
Further, I have seen  in internal emails  provided  by NFU that the loss adjuster went through 
the scope of works provided by the environmental  specialist  and tried to ensure the costs 
were kept as low as possible Through  doing  this they got around  a 15% reduction to the cost 
of the overall work. So I am persuaded that NFU got a good  price for the works. 
It also isnt in the interest of the insurer to pay above  a reasonable price, as it is them who is 
shouldering the cost. So I think its likely  that cost was taken into account when the work was 
agreed by the loss adjuster and that they got a reasonable price.
I have also looked  online at specialists who carry out this type of work. It is limited to a 
relatively small number with the right expertise. So when  I take all these factors  into account,  
I think its unlikely Mrs H would have been able to get the work done for cheaper  had she 
sourced the work herself, so I think NFU has acted reasonably.
It is also of relevance to consider the financial impact on Mrs H. She is most  concerned  due 
to the impact  on the price of her policy premiums, which she feels  increased due to the high 
value of the claim. NFU has explained  that the reason for such a large increase in premiums 
was, in part, due to a mis-calculation of the premiums the year before.  It had undercharged  
her for her premiums in her 2017 renewal. Therefore  when the price was corrected for the 
previous year, this already increased  the 2018  premium by more than a usual yearly 
increase.
However, I agree there was also an increase in the premium due to the claim.  From  looking 
at NFUs calculations, this is likely to have been  around £200. But from the evidence  
provided by NFU this appears to have been  affected by the fact there was a claim for 
extensive fire damage. And not directly  linked to the cost of the claim. So I dont think a 
reduction in the cost of the repairs would  have had a big impact on the premiums.  
Further, if Mrs H had chosen  to carry out the repairs herself, rather than going through  NFU, 
it seems likely this would have had a greater financial impact than the increase in the price of 
her premiums has had. The work  carried out by the environmental specialist cost nearly 
£30,000 and the increase in premiums  is approximately  a couple of hundred  a year.  So I 
dont think Mrs H has been negatively  financially  impacted  by NFU settling  the claim in the 
way it did.
Finally Mrs H has said that had she known about  the cost, rather than paying for the work 
herself, she may have  chosen to have taken  no action at all to clear the oil. She said this 
would have saved  a considerable amount of money and she had been  advised by the 
environment specialist that this wouldnt cause any problems.
I have looked  at the reports provided by the environmental specialist. As well as government  
guidance about oil spills  on private  properties. The impact of an oil spill goes further than just 
affecting the property.  It has a wider environmental impact and can cause  harm  to humans. 
The reports  state  as follows:
Ref: DRN50407774This investigation and assessment has been  carried  out in general  accordance  with CLRll
(Contaminated Land Report 11 - Model Procedures for the Management of Land
Contamination) and BS 10175:2011+A1:2013 (Investigation  of potentially contaminated 
sites
And it concludes that there is significant amounts of kerosene in this soil that could pose a 
risk to human health.  So it seems in order to comply with the regulations, removal  of the oil 
would need to take place.  I therefore  am not persuaded  that the environmental experts  
advised that there would  be no impact if the oil wasnt  removed.
Further, had Mrs H decided to take no action, she would have to declare the oil spill in future 
insurance quotes and on the sale of her property.  If she couldnt prove it had been dealt with 
in line with regulations, then this may cause  her further problems that could have financial 
implications. I therefore dont agree that Mrs H taking no action to rectify the oil spill was a 
viable option,  nor do I agree it would have necessarily saved her money.
For the reasons  I have  outlined above,  I dont  think NFU has acted unfairly when handling  
Mrs Hs claim. I therefore wont ask it to do anything  differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I wont require The National Farmers  Union Mutual  Insurance 
Society Limited to do anything differently  or in addition.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5040777