K821x#15complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about two instalment loans she took with Gain Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. She says these loans  were unaffordable. 
background 
Lending Stream provided Ms R with two instalment loans between  May and July 2016. Our 
adjudicator thought Lending Stream hadnt done anything  wrong  when providing Ms R with 
the first loan. But they thought that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Ms R. 
So, they partially upheld Ms Rs complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Ms R disagreed.  She thought she had 
been mis-treated. As Ms R disagreed with our adjudicator, the case was passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Ms R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could consider several  
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Ms R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN59223672Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Rs complaint about loan 1. As Ms R didnt responded 
directly to us about the adjudicators opinion on this loan, I wont  make  any further findings 
on it. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators findings that loan 2 shouldnt  have  been  lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why loan 2 wasnt  
suitable for Ms R. Ms R has said Lending Stream shouldnt have lent her another loan. As 
the adjudicator  and I agree with this, there is nothing further to add.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about everything,  Im satisfied that what Lending 
Stream has already agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loan 2) is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Rs case.  
putting things right  what Lending Stream has agreed to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms R paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Ms Rs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Ms R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN59223673my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think what Gain Credit LLC has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and I 
dont ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5922367