K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  on behalf of Mrs B, that items she bought  through Shop Direct
Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct ), trading as Very,  did not come as described. Mrs B
is also not happy with the customer service. She would like interest payments and defaults
on her account removed, some gesture of goodwill  for the goods received, and £800
compensation for poor service
background
Mr B says in April 2017 Mrs B ordered two wardrobes  on a 0% interest  buy now pay later 
(BNPL) deal for 12 months.  He says they understood the wardrobes would come ready 
assembled. However he says they didnt, they came in a number of boxes.  Not only was this 
inconvenient but it was unsafe as they had young children in the house at the time.
He says they had to pay a £90 charge to have the wardrobes assembled and as the 
customer service  was so poor when  Mrs B complained she decided  to withhold payment 
until the matter had been resolved. He says they thought this would happen quite quickly but 
it didnt. 
Shop Direct said it was unreasonable  for Mrs B to withhold payment for items just because 
of a dispute over the advertisement for them. It felt the wardrobes,  once  assembled,  were fit 
for purpose.  And felt it would be fair to offer Mrs B £75 for distress and inconvenience.  It 
wouldnt refund  the BNPL  interest as that had been  correctly applied. But it did offer £75 for 
distress and inconvenience which it said Mrs B turned  this down.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found  that:-
-The issues for me to consider were- were  the wardrobes ordered as described on 
delivery, what , if any, would be an appropriate  level of compensation for poor 
customer service  and finally  were  the BNPL interest  payments correctly applied and  
were there any grounds to refund these payments
-A headline of ready assembled  on the advertisement for the wardrobes would be 
sufficient for most consumers to think the that is how the wardrobes would be 
delivered
-The wardrobes did not arrive ready assembled. 
-Once assembled the wardrobes were  fit for purpose.
-Shop  Direct charged a fee for to assemble the wardrobes which it later refunded.  I 
found that to be a reasonable response.
-Shop  Directs customer service was poor  it acknowledged this itself and offered 
£75 compensation.
-Mrs B had been put to some inconvenience  in the time taken to deal with her 
complaint but she hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result  of the wardrobes not 
Ref: DRN51608802coming ready assembled that I could take into account. She referred to a possible 
charge from a decorator she stood down but didnt evidence this. 
-As Shop Direct refunded the assembly  fee, offered compensation for poor customer 
service and no issues were raised  with the quality of the wardrobes once assembled  
there were no grounds for Shop Direct to pay the £800 requested on his initial  
complaint form.
-Mrs B chose  to  withhold BNPL interest  payments   as she thought this would get a 
reasonable and speedy response  to her complaint by Shop Direc.t I found this 
unreasonable as she had received  and had use of the goods she bought   - the 
customer service  complaint  was a different issue
-By the time the BNPL payments were due Shop Direct had apologised twice, 
acknowledged its advertisement  had been misleading, its customer  service poor and 
had refunded the assembly charge for the wardrobes.
-The BNPL terms were clear  and correctly applied. And Mrs B was legally obliged  to 
make these  payments.
-As it was Mrs Bs personal choice not to make the BNPL payments it wasnt 
reasonable for Shop Direct to compensate her for any of the interest she accrued 
whilst her complaint was being looked  at. For the same reason it wasnt reasonable 
to remove any defaults on Mrs Bs account 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct accepted my provisional decision. It is happy to pay the £75 compensation for 
poor customer service that it originally  offered. And that I felt was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept my view. Mr B made  a number of points which I have carefully  
considered.
Mr B queried why I had said, in my provisional view, that Mrs B wanted £800  compensation 
and asked me to evidence this. Our complaint forms ask consumers to state what they want  
to put matter right. On the form Mr and Mrs B submitted  they asked for all interest charges 
and defaults to be removed and some  gesture of goodwill against the original wardrobe  
payment of circa £800 for the terrible service received.
When we write decisions  under  the heading  complaint  we summarise what  the original  
complaint was and what the consumer would like to happen.
Mr B feels  I made an incorrect assumption  that Mrs B hadnt read the full advertisement  for 
the wardrobes. I did agree the advertisement  was misleading but when I looked at the 
advertisement I felt if someone read it in detail they would  realise  the wardrobes would not 
arrive ready  assembled which , from the information  I had, seemed  to be what Mrs B 
expected.
Ref: DRN51608803I accept Mr Bs point Shop Direct  charged Mrs B for the wardrobes to be assembled as he 
says they couldnt do these themselves.  Mr B has now told us family friends  helped  him 
assemble the wardrobes  as Shop  Direct hadnt got back to him with a date to do this. So 
Shop Direct refunded  the charge as it didnt actually do the assembly.
I was not aware  of this when I wrote my provisional decision. Clearly it was right for Shop 
Direct to refund  the assembly fee if it didnt  assemble the wardrobes. I dont accept that this 
means this part of the complaint hasnt  been dealt with. It seems  to me that Shop Direct 
would have assembled the items but Mr and Mrs B chose to make  their own arrangements. 
If Shop Direct had done the assembly I wouldnt have expected  it to charge for this as I felt 
its advertisement was misleading. In that case its likely I would have asked  it to refund the 
assembly fee. I think the main point here is that Mrs B hasnt paid for a service  she didnt 
get. In terms of the overall customer service I feel Shop Direct  addressed  this with its 
acknowledgement this had been poor and with its offer of compensation.
Mr B feels  that I have excused Shop  Directs poor customer  service  in making a comment 
that it should have been clear that the matter wasnt going to be resolved quickly. I have  
accepted, as has Shop Direct,  that its customer service was poor.
I didnt and still dont  accept that it was reasonable for Mrs B to withhold payments she was 
legally obliged to pay until she got  what she felt was a reasonable response from Shop 
Direct. As I  stated in my provisional  decision, that by the time Mrs B withheld her payments 
Shop Direct  had  already   apologised twice, acknowledged its advertisement  had been 
misleading, its customer service poor and had refunded the assembly charge for the 
wardrobes. As Mrs B didnt find this satisfactory  I think its reasonable to say that her 
complaint wasnt going  to be resolved to her satisfaction speedily. That doesnt mean in any 
way excuse how Shop Direct handled her complaint.  But neither was it in my view a 
justification for Mrs B to withhold payments.
Mr B also sent in a timeline of events and a copy of a letter he sent to Shop Direct  but having  
looked at these I dont think they dont raise any issues I was not aware of when I wrote my 
provisional decision.
Mr B says he and Mrs B would  like to move  on from this matter and I do understand that. He 
has said Mrs B would accept the original  recommendation our adjudicator  made but not the 
£75 compensation  that Shop Direct  originally  made  and I felt was fair. Mr B doesnt feel that 
is any deterrent for Shop Direct.
I should explain that our role is not to punish businesses so we do not make  compensation 
awards to act as deterrents. And unfortunately as Shop Direct didnt agree with our 
adjudicators recommendation and neither did I the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
I have carefully considered all of the points that Mr B has made but I feel the only new 
information he has given  me is to clarify  that Shop Direct didnt actually carry out the 
assembly of the wardrobes. That isnt, in my view, a sufficient reason to change  my view that 
the £75 compensation Shop Direct  offered is fair.
I appreciate Mr B has said Mrs B wont accept this  that is her decision to make.
Ref: DRN51608804my final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  has made  a fair offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5160880