K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Unum Ltd turned down her claim for benefit under her income  
protection policy.
background
Ms S has an income protection policy, the aim of which is to pay an income, after a waiting  
period of 52 weeks, if she cant work because of illness or injury.  
In January 2018, Ms S stopped work because of low mood and stress. She submitted a 
claim to Unum. After assessing  the claim, Unum turned it down as it thought  shed stopped 
work because of a work-related incident,  rather than illness. Unhappy  with Unums  decision 
to turn down  her claim,  Ms S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst she accepted  that Ms S 
was experiencing symptoms, she didnt think the evidence supported  that these prevented 
Ms S from carrying out the material duties of her role throughout the waiting period. She 
therefore concluded it was fair for Unum  to turn down the claim.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators  findings,  and so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy explains  a claim will be payable,  after a waiting period of 52 weeks,  if Ms S is 
unable to perform the material  and substantial  duties  of her occupation due to illness or 
injury. Ive therefore considered the medical evidence in the relevant 52 week  waiting period.  
I see that in January 2018, Ms S attended  her GP surgery as shed been feeling  stressed  
and panicked. She reported  feeling  exhausted  towards the end of the year with ongoing 
issues at work, and was under investigation following a particular incident. Her property had 
also flooded. Her GP signed her off work.
In March 2018, Ms S had an assessment with an NHS psychological  service.  Following the 
assessment, it was thought the most suitable support for her difficulties with severe 
symptoms of anxiety and low mood  was cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). 
Also in March 2018, Ms Ss GP provided  an update.  She said Ms S had been suffering with 
symptoms of anxiety and depression since January. She explained triggers included Ms Ss 
house being flooded,  and that stress in the workplace had been a significant  factor,  including  
but not entirely related  to a recent disciplinary investigation. And that while  being  off work, 
Ms S had engaged with an NHS psychological service and had been started on 
antidepressant medication. 
Ref: DRN52986472The GP said that whilst shed seen some  improvement in Ms Ss depressive and anxiety 
symptoms, she didnt  think  Ms S was ready  to return to work. She thought Ms S needed 
some more time and space to recover her strength to deal with any disciplinary procedures 
that may be ongoing.  She hoped that over the following few weeks, the treatment plan would  
enable Ms S to consider  a return to work.   
In April 2018, the NHS psychological service discharged  Ms S from its services.  It said shed 
advised that shed been attending private  therapy and was feeling much  better.
Ms S has also confirmed she was discharged from the NHS service  because shed received 
private therapy  from a clinic. However, she hasnt provided any evidence  from that clinic, so I 
cant take this into account. 
Also in April 2018, Ms Ss GP noted  that shed  left work. And she still had some anxiety but 
this was manageable,  though Ms S didnt think she could work.
Ms S continued to be signed off by her GP as unfit to work. In July 2018, her GP noted  that 
she still wasnt feeling right, and had plateaued.  Her antidepressant medication  was changed 
at this time.  
Then in October  2018, the GP recorded that Ms S had forgotten  to take her medication on 
holiday with her, but shed felt better without it. 
I understand Ms S spoke  with Unum in November 2018, and advised that she had no further 
counselling or therapy planned. 
I think the medical evidence does support that initially  Ms S wasnt able to work.  Her GP had 
referred her to NHS  psychological  services  who found  she was experiencing severe 
symptoms of anxiety, and referred her for CBT. She was also being  prescribed 
antidepressant medication. However,  it seems  her symptoms then improved whilst she was 
off work. She was discharged by the NHS psychological services,  and also came off her 
medication. Before the waiting  period  had ended,  Ms S had stopped receiving any medical 
treatment for her condition.
Given Ms Ss improvement during the waiting period,  and the lack of any ongoing or planned 
medical treatment by November 2018, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that 
Ms S hadnt shown  that her symptoms prevented her from working throughout the entire 52-
week waiting period. 
 In January 2019,  Ms Ss GP provided some more information. She said that since Ms S had 
been off work, her mental  state had improved and shed been able to come off her 
medication. The GP thought this improvement was due to Ms S being able to avoid the 
stress of work, however,  she thought that if Ms S were to return to her previous job her 
symptoms would relapse,  given  that her previous job was a high pressure  role with lots of 
responsibility. 
I appreciate that the GP thought Ms Ss symptoms  may relapse if she returned to her 
previous occupation.  However, I cant take into account what may or may not happen in the 
future. I can only look at whether Ms S met the policy  terms at the time of the claim. Ms Ss 
GP accepts that her symptoms had improved whilst shed been  off work, and given that this 
Ref: DRN52986473was before the 52-week  waiting period  had ended,  Im satisfied  that it was reasonable for 
Unum to turn down  the claim.
Ms S has also made the point that when she spoke with Unum about her claim, she was 
offered rehabilitation support and accepted this. However, she didnt hear anything further 
about it. 
I see that Unum offered  Ms S the rehab support during a call that took place  in November 
2018. It did then contact its rehab services, but they decided not to provide Ms S with any 
support. I assume thats because Ms Ss symptoms had improved. Whilst I dont think this 
caused Ms S any particular inconvenience, I would have expected  Unum  to tell Ms S that 
she wouldnt  be receiving any rehab support from them. I trust Unum  will bear this in mind in 
future claims.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5298647