K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr W say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr W bought the policy in 2001  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage in branch and applied for the PPI by postal application. The policy 
started a few months later when their mortgage completed.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject  
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £400 a month  towards Mrs and Mr Ws 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. The policy was free for the first six 
months and following that it cost £19.32  a month.  
At the time,  Mr W was employed in building  maintenance. He has told us he was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying the mortgage  should he be 
unable to work. But Mr W has said he wouldve received  redundancy pay and had death in 
service cover from his employer. YBS mentioned in its correspondence  that Mr Ws 
employer at the time had said he wouldve been  entitled to 21 paid sick days  per year. So I 
think this is likely what Mr W wouldve received as his sick pay benefit. Mr W has said he 
was in good health. 
Mrs W wasnt working at the time of sale.
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mrs and Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs and Mr Ws representative  says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs and     
Mr Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mrs and Mr W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs and Mr W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN56915262The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs and Mr W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs and Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN56915263The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs and 
Mr Ws case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs and Mr W with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mrs and Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN56915264-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs and 
Mr W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mrs and Mr W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs and Mr W 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mrs and Mr W know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  It has sent us copies of the 
mortgage documents Mrs and Mr W completed  at the time. In the cover letter for the PPI 
illustration and application form, it asks applicants to either  return  a completed application 
form if they want to take the policy or complete a declaration to say that they dont want to 
take the PPI. 
YBS has provided a copy of Mrs and Mr Ws completed application  form and this has been 
signed by both of them. There is nothing to suggest the PPI is compulsory and if they didnt  
want the PPI, Mrs and Mr W couldve signed  the declaration to say so.  
So, I think its more likely  that Mrs and Mr W knew the policy was optional  and they agreed 
to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mrs and Mr W havent said whether advice 
was provided or not. Looking at what happened when YBS sold Mrs and Mr W the PPI, Im 
not persuaded that it provided  advice. I say this because it looks  like Mrs and Mr W were 
sent the PPI illustration and application  form a few days  after they signed the mortgage 
application. The wording  in the illustration  document also makes reference  to completing the 
form and returning  it to YBS. This makes me think  that Mrs and Mr W filled in the form in 
their own time.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr W. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied Mrs and Mr W were given  a description  of what the policy  was intended to cover 
on the PPI illustration they were provided with. It explained that the policy would provide 
cover for up to 12 months  for accident, sickness or unemployment.  It also set out that the 
policy was free for the first six months, what the cost would be after this period and the 
monthly benefit amount. A lot of this information  was confirmed on the PPI application form 
Mrs and Mr W completed, where Mrs and Mr W also had to choose  the excess period  the 
number of days they would have to wait before a claim would be paid. 
Ref: DRN56915265But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information on about the exclusions or limitations  before Mrs and Mr W agreed to take out 
the policy. 
So I dont  think YBS gave Mrs and Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs and Mr Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs and 
Mr Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs and Mr Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs and Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs and Mr W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mrs and Mr W? To what extent did 
Mrs and Mr W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs and Mr W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs and 
Mr W would  have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mrs and Mr W say they would  not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs and Mr W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr W being  unable to work. 
Ref: DRN56915266As Ive found above, Mrs and Mr W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mrs and 
Mr W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mrs and Mr W have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
As Ive said above,  from the information  I think its likely Mrs and Mr W understood what  the 
cost and the benefit were before they agreed  to take it out. They would also have known 
they would  have to wait 30 days to make a claim and that the maximum period payments 
would be made  following  a claim was 12 months. But the information  about other aspects  of 
the policy, such as limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease that Mr W 
knew of or should reasonably known of before  the start date of the policy. Or any 
condition for which  he had received treatment, advice or was referred for 
investigation during 12 months before the start date and which  recurred within 12 
months of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do any paid work  as certified by a doctor;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs and Mr W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr W from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr W was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to Mrs and Mr W 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr W wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr W would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mrs and Mr W had known Mr W could  only claim for disability if he was unable  to do any 
paid work  as certified by a doctor,  it might have played into Mrs and Mr Ws thinking  about 
what they would do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given   
their circumstances and the limited  other  means  they had to make their repayments  if Mr W 
Ref: DRN56915267wasnt working, on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out the 
cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs and Mr W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr W were made redundant, or unable to work  through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mrs and 
Mr W would  have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mrs and Mr Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs and 
Mr Ws circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mrs and Mr W found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mrs and Mr W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs and Mr W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mrs and Mr W compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs and Mr W think YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Ref: DRN56915268YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mrs and Mr W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2001  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs and Mr Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs and Mr W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs and Mr W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5691526