K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants the business to pay for the necessary repairs.
background
Mr E tells us be obtained the vehicle from a dealer Ill call V in August 2017.  Within a few 
days he says he noticed a judder  from the gearbox.  He says hes had the vehicle inspected  
under warranty and some work has been carried out. But he states the problems  still remain. 
And hes now been told by the manufacturers, a company Ill call M, that the vehicle  needs  
a new gearbox which  will cost in excess of £7,000.
MotoNovo told us that Mr E had first made  it aware  of the faults  with the vehicle  on 30 July 
2018. It said Mr E had been  told by V that it was willing  to make a contribution to repair costs 
but hed refused that offer. It said there was no evidence there were  faults present at the 
point of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said Mr E had taken 
the vehicle to many garages but none  had been  able to diagnose the faults and had 
recommended he went  direct to one of Ms branches. He said Ms garage had inspected the 
vehicle on two occasions. It hadnt  found  any fault during the first inspection  but issues had 
been identified  during  the second examination. But he said that the invoice provided  didnt  
confirm what caused the issues or if theyd have been present at the point of supply. He 
noted that Mr E had refused Vs offer to make  a contribution towards the costs of repairs,  
subject to an independent inspection. As it hadnt  been shown  there was a fault at the time 
of supply he didnt  think MotoNovo needed to do anything.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr E has experienced problems  with this vehicle and I can understand his 
disappointment that the vehicle hasnt proved as reliable as he no doubt hoped.
Unfortunately, things are more likely  to go wrong with used, high mileage vehicle such  as 
this. And I note that when Mr E acquired  it the mileage was over 113,000, which  for a vehicle 
first registered in 2013 is well above average. 
Mr Es hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues which can include but are 
not limited to the age of the goods  and previous use. It also includes an element of durability.
Ref: DRN53659162Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I reach  my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. I can see that Mr E reported faults with the vehicle shortly after 
he acquired it and Ive seen notes from the handler  who dealt with his warranty  claim.  These  
indicated that some work was done  around  April 2018 to the electro-hydraulic control  unit 
which seems to have been  replaced.  Following these repairs  I can see that Mr E reported  to 
V that the judder was still present.
Subsequently Mr E had a further diagnosis of the vehicle  carried out by M and Ive seen an 
estimate dated 27 June  2018 which indicates  a new gearbox is needed.  Whilst the estimate 
doesnt identify  the reason for this, it appears  from the warranty  handlers notes that M 
advised there was a lot of swarf found in the gearbox. Where  this came from or how long its 
been there Im unable  to say. And whilst  many  gearboxes last the lifetime of a vehicle theres  
no guarantee that this will always be the case.
As the vehicle had covered 113,000  miles when supplied to Mr E if this swarf  was the cause 
it seems likely to be the result of gradual wear and tear over that period of use. And if this 
werent the case it would  need an independent  inspection or some other plausible  
information to establish the exact  cause and to show if that had been present at the point of 
supply.
Without this, I dont think theres sufficient information to show the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. And I also note the vehicle passed an MOT test on 12 July 2018  at 
which the odometer reading was 116,547 miles. This indicates  the vehicle has travelled over 
3,000 miles since supplied to Mr E.
I understand that Mr E doesnt wish to incur  the expense of an independent  inspection  
particularly as it seems hes not confident it would necessarily identify the true cause of the 
problem. But without  some persuasive information to show that the issues - leading to a 
replacement gearbox  being required - were  present at the point of supply  I cant say theres 
sufficient information  to conclude the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time.
In summary,  theres insufficient information for me to conclude that this vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. So Im not going  to ask MotoNovo to do anything else.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr E Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5365916