K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Ms T have  complained about  Admiral Insurance  Company  Limiteds  handling of 
their multicar motor  insurance policy.
The events complained about  largely relate to Ms Ts car. So, although she brings  the 
complaint jointly  with Mr M, for ease where I refer to Ms Ts comments  and actions those are 
in respect of both her and Mr M.
background
Ms Ts policy  with Admiral  renewed in September 2018. Some months  later she was 
involved in an accident. She spoke with Admiral who asked her if thered been  any other 
incidents. Ms T said that, in August 2018, her car had been slightly  damaged while  parked. 
Admiral said Ms T should have told it about  that before her policy  renewed. And - if shed 
done so - it would have  charged a higher premium at renewal. So it said she should  pay it an 
extra £531  premium.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2019. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
Ms T wasn't happy that Admiral said she had to tell it about  an incident that was minor  and 
which didn't lead to a claim. But Ms Ts policy says she needs to tell Admiral about  any 
incident no matter  how minor. And when she renewed her policy  Admiral  asked  her whether 
or not she or any other  driver had had any accidents, incidents, theft or losses  regardless of 
fault. I think that question  is clear  and given that Ms Ts car had been in an incident I think 
she should have  told Admiral about it.
I understand that, given the minor nature of the incident, Ms T might  not have  remembered  it 
or realised she had to tell Admiral about it when  she renewed her policy. So I think her 
mistake in not telling  Admiral about it would be described in the insurance industry as 
careless. And in those  circumstances  theres  specific legislation: the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA), that sets out what insurers  like Admiral 
may do. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isnt 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
In this case, at the point that Admiral learned about the incident from August 2018, Ms T had 
an outstanding  claim.  So Admiral had the option  at that point of settling the claim on a 
proportionate basis. By that I mean  it could  work  out what percentage of the revised  
premium Ms T had actually paid and apply that percentage to any settlement amount for the 
claim. 
So in this case Ms T initial paid around £1,465 for her premium.  But that rose to £1996 when 
the additional £531 was added to it. So as Ms T initially paid around 73% of the total 
Ref: DRN54767332premium (calculated as [(£1465.30  £1996.56) x 100] = 73.39%) then Admiral could have 
settled Ms Ts claim for around 73% of its full value.  
But Admiral  didn't do that and instead  insisted that Ms T paid an additional premium. As I've 
indicated above  that wasn't an option CIDRA gave it. So, in order  to put Ms T back  into the 
position she should have been in I've thought  about what  might have happened if Admiral 
had dealt with the case in line with CIDRA.
In those circumstances, I think Admiral should have given Ms T the option  of either:
settling her claim, and any future claim during the rest of the policy  term, on a 
proportionate basis ;or
paying the additional premium of £531.
If Ms T had decided not to pay the additional premium and instead  had agreed  for Admiral to 
settle any claim proportionately then her policy cover would have reduced to 73.39%  of the 
value of any claim.
So, for the claim Admiral  has paid out on that means its settlement would have reduced by 
around £411. I've calculated that as follows:
Ms Ts car was deemed a total loss and Admiral  valued it at £1,545.  So if Admiral had only 
paid 73.39% of that, the sum would have reduced  to £1,133.87. But as Ms T chose to keep 
the salvage, Admiral  would  have deducted the salvage value of £123.60 from the pay-out. 
So, that would have reduced  its settlement to £1,010.27, rather  than the £1,421.40 [£1,545 - 
£123.60] it actually  paid to her. 
It follows that if Admiral had settled the claim proportionately rather than imposing  the 
additional premium  Ms T would have been around £120 [£531-£411]  better  off than paying 
the additional premium. 
On the other hand if Ms T had chosen to pay the additional premium,  the advantage would 
have been that she would  have  remained fully insured for the remainder  of the policy  year. In 
other words, had there  been a second  claim, and that includes a third party claim, Admiral 
would have paid it in full and Ms T wouldn't have been responsible  for any of its costs.  So its 
certainly possible that Ms T would have decided to pay the additional premium rather  than 
running the risk of being underinsured for the remainder of the policy year if shed been 
given options.  But Admiral didn't give Ms T options.  So Admiral didn't  go about things 
correctly. And thats been a source of distress and inconvenience for Ms T and Mr M. So to 
put things right I think it should  pay them  £120 compensation. 
For completeness, I note that our adjudicator also recommended that Admiral should  give 
Ms T the option of cancelling her policy.  But I don't think  that would have been of benefit to 
her. Thats because, like all other motor policies Im aware of, Ms Ts policy  says that if she 
cancels it after a claims been made  then she wouldn't be due any refund of unused 
premium. So as shed  made a claim she wouldnt  have got anything  back if shed cancelled  
the policy. In other words  she would have had to pay the full years premium,  of £1,465,  
without getting  cover for the full year. And in any event Ms Ts policy has now run for almost  
its full term. It follows that I don't think it would be reasonable  to recommend that now.  
Mr M and Ms T accepted my provisional  decision, Admiral didn't respond.
Ref: DRN54767333my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As none of the parties to the complaint raised any objections to my provisional findings,  I see 
no reason to change  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr M and Ms T £120  compensation for 
their distress  and inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling 
it Mr M and Ms T have  accepted my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M and Ms T how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr M and Ms T a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5476733