K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about  the handling of a claim under a boiler insurance policy 
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
Aviva uses  agents to deal with claims on its behalf.  Any references to Aviva in this decision 
should be read as including  anything  said and done  on its behalf by those  claims-handling 
agents.  
background 
Mr and Mrs S held a landlords central  heating insurance policy with Aviva for a property they 
let out. The property was being renovated  in August 2018, for the incoming tenant  with the 
tenancy commencement date of 27 September 2018.
On 23 July 2018 Mr and Mrs S reported that the boiler in the property was losing pressure.  
An annual service  was already scheduled  for 2 August 2018 and so as the boiler was 
working, Aviva said the engineer would look into the loss of pressure at that appointment. 
The engineer said there was a fault and he needed to order  parts.  Mr and Mrs S were told 
an engineer would contact them in order to arrange an appointment to fit the parts  but they  
had to chase the appointment on 9 August  2018. Between 11 August 2018 and 20 August 
2018, there were  several more appointments with different contractors attending  on behalf of 
Aviva. One didnt  turn up, another couldnt find anything wrong with the boiler. At the last of 
these appointment,  they were told parts would be ordered and fitted  soon. 
However, on 30 August  2018, Aviva told Mr and Mrs S itd have  to appoint a different 
contractor, as the boiler was an unvented  cylinder boiler and the previous  contractors  were  
not able to work on that type of boiler. Aviva confirmed it would appoint  another  contractor to 
attend on 8 September 2018. Is also agreed  to pay for Mrs S to travel home to be there  for 
the appointment (£237.25). The new contractor said the problem  was the regulator and that 
they would  contact the manufacturer  of the boiler  and order  the parts  to be fitted on 12 
September 2018. However, on 10 September 2018, Aviva told Mr and Mrs S that the boiler  
was beyond economic repair.  
The policy provides that in the event the boiler  is deemed to be beyond  repair  and is over 7 
years of age we will source, replace and install a new boiler, but you will be required to pay 
for the installation costs. 
As Mr and Mrs Ss boiler was less than seven  years old, Aviva arranged an appointment to 
quote for a replacement  boiler a few days later. 
The installer initially said that the central  heating system in Mr and Mrs Ss house was a 
single pipe system and it wasnt  able to install a new boiler on such  a system (it would need 
to be a two-pipe  system). Mr and Mrs S carried out some research and found that the boiler  
could be compatible  with a one pipe system,  but a disclaimer would need to be signed, in 
case the boiler didnt  work properly. It was subsequently  confirmed that it would install the 
boiler on the existing  system and work could start on 26 September 2018 and it would take 
four days. 
Mr and Mrs S told Aviva  they had a tenant  due to move into the property on 27 September 
2018 and so the work need  to be done sooner than this. 
Ref: DRN59467422I understand that Avivas installer  then said it could fit the new boiler in one day on 26 
September 2018 but there was a delay in getting  the scaffolding  that would be required and 
they then said they could  no longer fit the work  in. 
As they had to have the work completed before  their tenant moved in, Mr and Mrs S 
arranged for their own contractors to install the boiler. They  say the scaffolding  was put up 
on 24 September 2018, the boiler installed the next day and the scaffolding removed on 26 
September 2018. The total cost was £3,070.80  (made up of boiler and installation £2,470.80 
and scaffolding £600.00) which was considerably more than the quote  provided by Avivas  
contractor (£1,213.40).  They  had to sign a disclaimer as to any difference  in temperature the 
heating at the property would suffer due to the installation of the boiler onto a single pipe 
system. 
Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy with the way their claim was handled and say they have  
incurred considerable additional  expenses as a direct result. I have summarised  some  of 
their points below: 
 
They had to pay more  to have the boiler  installed so quickly  and Avivas  handling  of 
the claim meant they didnt have the chance to shop around for a cheaper quote. 
Between 21 and 26 September 2018, they suffered considerable inconvenience 
trying to source and secure a boiler provider and scaffolding company to carry out 
the work  in time for the tenant.  This could  have been prevented  had HomeServe 
appointed competent engineers to identify the problem when the issue with the boiler 
was first reported to HomeServe on 23 July 2018. 
If the boiler had been deemed beyond  economical repair while their renovation  work  
was being carried  out, they could have arranged for the necessary pipework to be 
completed during  this work. 
This caused additional stress,  which is unacceptable particularly because  Mr S 
suffered a heart attack  on 2 August  2018.
It is unacceptable that in accordance with its terms and conditions  Aviva
offered a free boiler, however, it was aware that it would not be able to do the work in 
time for the tenant  to move in, which it had caused, allowing it to renege  on its offer.
Aviva  has offered £573 towards the purchase of a new boiler when it was aware that 
the boiler its partner  had recommended  retailed at just over £1,250.
Aviva  says it does not cover cash alternatives  but the policy  doesnt  say anything 
about this.
Mr and Mrs S have  asked for a total of £4,170.80  from Aviva,  made up of the cost of the new 
boiler; compensation of £700;  international telephone  calls and attendances  £270; three 
days loss of earnings at £150 per day from Friday 7 September to Sunday 9 September  
2018; and arranging representatives  to be at the property for the engineers visits from 2 
August to 14 September 2018,  £300.00
Aviva accepts the claim wasnt handled as well as it should have been.  Aviva initially  offered 
a cash in lieu settlement  of £573  being the cost of the boiler it said would be the suitable  
replacement and £427 compensation for the missed appointment and the additional 
appointments at the beginning of the claim,  and the inconvenience that was caused  overall.  
This was in addition to the 237.25 it had already paid Mrs S. 
After the complaint was brought to this service, Aviva increased  its offer.  It said  
Ref: DRN59467423it would  have authorised a different boiler  from the one originally quoted for above, due to 
the size of the property. Aviva says this would have costs £880.48 plus VAT (i.e. £1,056.58 
in total).  So its total offer, including compensation is £1,483.58. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She acknowledged  that Mr and Mrs S were 
under pressure to have  the new boiler installed  before their tenant moved in and it was 
difficult for them, as they do not live in the United Kingdom and Mr S was unwell. However, 
overall she was satisfied that the offer by Aviva  was reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs S do not accept the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been  passed 
to me. 
Mr and Mrs S have  made a number  of submissions in response to the investigators 
assessment, which Ive summarised  below: 
The policy says that if parts  arent  readily available or will take more  than 28 days  to 
find, then it will not be able to complete a repair. They  were  told the boiler parts  
would be ordered and that the problem would be fixed.
Their policy is specifically for landlords and Aviva has known theyve lived abroad  
since 2011. 
Avivas contractor could not start the work on 26 September  2018,  as it was unable  
to source the scaffolding from its contractors, so they sourced the scaffolding. 
However, Aviva then said that we had lost the slot for the work to be scheduled  for 
26 September 2018 due to the short  delay  in sourcing the scaffolding.  
If the tenant had not been able to move in on the contracted date, even if they had 
provided hotel  accommodation as Aviva  had suggested to them,  they could have 
been sued for breach of contract.  Aviva would not confirm that itd indemnify them for 
any losses resulting  from this. 
The investigator said that it would have taken  more than one appointment to 
diagnose the problem with the boiler  but the contractor  that attended on 8 September 
2018 was able to diagnose  the boiler as beyond economical repair on 10 September  
2018. 
Their contract was with the claims-handlers and all the failings  in the case  were in 
their activities and not Aviva. 
Avivas failure to make  good on the promise  to do the work  on 26 September  2018 
resulted in additional and unnecessary  delays and losses  which they would not have 
incurred otherwise.
The adjudicator  has accepted Avivas  assertions and figures  without question.
As the adjudicator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
respondent business
As mentioned above, Aviva uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. Mr and Mrs S feel 
strongly that their contract was with these agents  and that they are responsible for the mis-
handling of their claim. 
Ref: DRN59467424Our rules provide that we can consider  complaints about regulated  firms carrying  out 
regulated activities. The regulated activities we can look into are set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook and include the effecting and carrying  out of a contract  of 
insurance as principal. Claims-handling as an agent (which  is the agents  function here) is 
not a regulated activity. The claims-handling agent  is carrying out those activities  on behalf 
of Aviva the underwriter and it therefore  bears responsibility for its actions.  Everything  the 
claims-handlers have  said and done has been  on behalf of Aviva,  as its agent. Aviva is 
therefore responsible.
policy cover
The policy provides that Aviva  was obliged to pay the cost of the replacement  boiler,  having 
deemed Mr and Mrs Ss boiler  as being beyond economic  repair.  However, they would have 
to pay the installation costs. 
The quote  from Avivas  installer was £1,213.40  for the installation  work only and did not 
include the cost of the actual boiler. I see no reason to doubt  this. Aviva says the boiler it 
would have provided cost £888.48 plus VAT (i.e. £1,056.58 in total).  I have not seen any 
evidence that this would not have been  a suitable replacement for Mr and Mrs Ss boiler. 
So the cost of the boiler and installation from Avivas  installer would have been £2,269.98 in 
total. The amount  Mr and Mrs S paid for the boiler and installation  (but not the scaffolding) 
was £2,470.80. This is not significantly different and therefore I do not consider that Mr and 
Mrs S have established they incurred significantly greater costs as a result of having to get 
the work  done  quickly (even if I were  satisfied that this urgency was entirely Avivas fault, 
which I do not. I will explain why later in this decision.).  
Mr and Mrs S were  never  entitled to the cost of installing  the boiler  only the cost of the 
boiler itself - and so I do not consider Aviva needs to pay towards the installation  costs they 
incurred. I am satisfied that the offer of £1,056.58 for the replacement  boiler is reasonable.  
However, Aviva should add interest at our usual rate to this amount.  
claims-handling
Mr and Mrs S are adamant that the boiler  should  have been  deemed beyond economic 
repair during the first visit. They say the different contractor that attended in September  2018 
was able to come to this conclusion quickly enough.  I do accept that there  were  some 
avoidable delays,  with one appointment missed, different contractors needed and Mr and 
Mrs S having to chase  for updates. However, I do not consider it has been established that 
none of these additional visits  would  have been  required. I say this because  theres  no 
expert evidence that the fault was one that should  have immediately rendered  the boiler  
beyond repair; I note during at least  one visit it seems no faults were  found. 
I also do not think I can make an award  against  Aviva for its installer not being able to do the 
work on the particular  day required by Mr and Mrs S. While I can see they were  under time 
pressure, there is no provision in the policy for the installation to be carried  out within any 
particular time period.  Time was of the essence for Mr and Mrs S but we would  only expect 
Aviva to have offered  to do the installation within a reasonable  time. I also note there was 
some debate about whether the boiler could  be replaced on the existing system. This seems 
to me to have been a legitimate concern and so I cant make  an award against Aviva for any 
delay this caused. Overall  there these discussion apparently took less than a week.  I do not 
consider this was unreasonable.
Ref: DRN59467425Given all this, I do not consider that Aviva should  pay the additional installation costs  
incurred, over and above  the quote  from Avivas  installer (around  £200 as set out in the 
above section). 
compensation 
Mr and Mrs S have  asked for compensation  for the trouble caused  to them  as well as loss of 
earnings, from the time spent coming  back home  for an appointment; arranging other people 
to attend other appointments;  and the cost of international phone calls. 
I can see this was an extremely stressful period of time: Mr S was very ill and they were 
having to get the boiler sorted out from abroad  before their tenant moved in. However, not all 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  is solely due to Aviva, as set out above.
I have taken all this into account and consider that overall the sum of £427 already offered 
and the payment towards Mrs S travel costs is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
and in line with other  awards. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require I consider that Aviva  Insurance Ltd to pay Mr and 
Mrs S the following: 
£1,056.58   as cash in lieu settlement for the replacement boiler, together  with interest 
at 8% simple per annum from the date they paid for the replacement of their boiler  to 
the date of reimbursement;  and 
£427 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of the 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5946742