K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complained because Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S)  cancelled  two 
direct debits on her account  without  telling her.
Background
Mrs C applied for a regular monthly savings account. M&S  told her she didnt meet  the 
criteria for the account as she didnt have two active direct debits on her current  account.  
Mrs C previously had two direct debits on her current account,  but they had disappeared. 
When she queried that with M&S it told her neither direct debit had been used in the 
previous two years so in line with normal banking practice and the terms of her account  they 
had been classed as dormant and were removed.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she didnt think  
M&S had treated Mrs C unfairly when it removed the direct debits. And she didnt think  M&S 
was required to tell Mrs C that it had removed them.
Mrs C disagreed. She said M&S failed to tell the two companies  with whom the direct debits 
had been set up (who  Ill refer to as the originators) that they had been  removed. This meant  
the mandates continued to show on the originators records as being live; which  in turn 
meant that when Mrs C tried to get the direct debit reinstated the originators werent  aware 
that a new mandate was needed. The originators later tried to collect  direct  debit payments 
but they were  refused by M&S as new mandates hadnt been arranged.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has argued  that the direct  debit guarantee required M&S to tell an originator  when  a 
mandate is cancelled.  I dont agree  with that. The direct debit website says:
that to protect  payers from instructions being live on their account indefinitely  a direct 
debit will be removed from the banks  system  after the dormancy period has lapsed;
banks hold details  of direct debit instructions on file for a minimum of 13 months  from the 
date of the last payment, and after the dormancy period has passed the bank will remove  
details of the instruction from their system; and
before  claiming  further direct debit payments the organisation (claiming them) must  get a 
new direct  debit  instruction or the consumers authority to continue collecting.  If this isnt 
done the direct debit  payment may be returned  by the bank.
So, its not unusual  for a bank to treat a direct  debit as dormant, and to remove  it, if it hasnt  
been used for 13 months or more. In this case,  the terms of Mrs Cs current account say If 
you haven't used  a Direct Debit or standing order that you've set up for 13 months, we'll 
cancel it. Theres nothing  Ive seen in the direct debit guarantee which requires businesses 
to tell originators when  a mandate has been  cancelled or removed.
Theres similarly no requirement for M&S  to have  told Mrs C when it removed the direct  
debits. I acknowledge  Mrs Cs point that it might have been  better  customer  service for M&S 
to have told her. But I dont think this automatically means it treated her unfairly by not doing 
so.
Ref: DRN52351822Mrs C has said M&S  not telling the originators  that the direct debit had been removed meant 
it took four months to establish that a new mandate was needed. And during that time she 
spent hours  communicating with M&S and the two originators. I acknowledge the impact  this 
matter had on Mrs C. But I will only consider  making a business  pay compensation if I 
conclude that it treated  a consumer unfairly. And I havent concluded that here.  So there are 
no grounds for me to make M&S pay any compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5235182