K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled her claim following an 
escape of water. 
Miss W is represented  in bringing this complaint.  But all submissions made on her behalf  will 
be cited as being  made by Miss W directly. And any reference to Ageas will include third 
parties appointed  to deal with the claim.
background
In December 2017, Miss W experienced an escape  of water in her bathroom and submitted 
a claim under her buildings insurance  policy. Ageas accepted Miss Ws claim, but its 
progress and the remedial works to Miss Ws home took longer than she anticipated. So she 
complained about delays,  a lack of communication and a failure  from Ageas to respond to 
her requests. 
Ageas acknowledged they had seen some  delays in Miss Ws claim, but said they didnt 
think they were responsible for them. Ageas also said Miss W had been  kept informed 
throughout the duration of her claim.  So, unhappy with this, Miss W brought  her complaint to 
our service  and said Ageas still needed to do more  to put things right for her.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened and said there was conflicting  
evidence from both sides in this case.  But they thought that Ageas had been responsible for 
some delay, and should  have responded  to Miss Ws requests when they were made. They  
didnt think Miss W was entitled to the disturbance allowance shed requested  from Ageas 
though  because there  wasnt evidence to suggest  shed  incurred  additional costs  by living 
in the property whilst the claim was progressing. 
Taking everything into account,  our investigator thought Ageas needed to recognise the 
impact their delays and level of service  had on Miss W. So they recommended  Ageas pay 
her £300  in compensation.
Ageas agreed  with the investigators  recommendations and went on to respond to the 
unanswered requests Miss W had made. But Miss W disagreed and in summary said, our 
investigator hadnt concentrated on the comprehensive  information  shed provided in support 
of her complaint, and they hadnt  fully challenged the evidence from Ageas. 
So as no agreement was reached the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss W feels  very strongly  about whats happened  and Id like to thank her for 
presenting her complaint in such detail. I do however  want  to explain that my findings will 
only focus on those  matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. That means I 
wont address every  point  or argument  thats been  made, and I trust Miss W wont  take that 
as a matter of discourtesy.
Ref: DRN52439392The evidence both sides  have  provided  in this complaint is at times conflicting. For example, 
Miss W has said Ageas caused delays  from mid-February to the end of July. But Ageas 
have said they werent  responsible for any delays and continued progress was made with 
Miss Ws claim. Similarly,  Miss W has said she was often left waiting for Ageas to contact 
her. But Ageas have said that regular  on-going  contact with Miss W was made or attempted.
I am aware  that Miss W has concerns about the validity of Ageas evidence because it 
conflicts with her version of events.  But Ive accepted all the evidence provided to this 
service in good faith and have no reason to doubt  the validity of what either side has 
presented. 
I can see there were times when Ageas contact with Miss W was lacking, such  as when 
they didnt contact her as agreed or when there was nothing more than a phone call 
attempted. And I can see there were  times  when  parts of the claim took a while to progress 
too, such as the time between the drying  being  completed at Miss Ws home  and the next 
phase of works beginning. So on balance I do think Ageas could  have done  more to keep 
Miss W updated  at times and ensure they were continuing to progress her claim efficiently.
Regarding the unanswered  requests Miss W mentioned,  I can see that Ageas did go on to 
respond to those. That was the right thing for them to do. But Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me that Ageas werent  in a position  to respond to some  of these sooner. For 
example telling Miss W they were unable to provide her with a breakdown of their cash  
settlement, because they considered that information to be commercially sensitive and 
contractually were unable to share it. 
The above  delays and lack of contact  proved  to be an ongoing  frustration for Miss W. So I 
agree that an award of compensation is warranted  here.
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact  a business 
mistake has had on someone.  So any award  I make would need to reflect that. Despite  the 
conflicting evidence  in this case, I think Ageas  actions  did cause Miss W unnecessary 
frustration, distress and inconvenience.  And so for this reason, I find the £300  recommended 
by our investigator represents a fair and proportionate resolution to this complaint. 
I am aware  that Miss W would still like a disturbance allowance  to be paid to her. But despite 
its name, a disturbance  allowance isnt designed  to provide compensation for any type of 
disturbance caused.  It is intended to provide cover for actual  additional costs  an individual  
incurred  for example by remaining in their home  whilst an accepted claim was underway. I 
havent been provided with evidence of any such costs by Miss W. So, like our investigator, I 
cant fairly conclude  that a disturbance  allowance should  be awarded in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited must pay Miss W 
£300 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5243939