K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold two equity  release mortgages by Aviva  Life Services  
UK Limited.
Mrs Ss complaint is brought by her daughter on her behalf. I will refer to Mrs Ss daughter 
as Mrs M. 
background
In 1999 Mrs S took out an equity release mortgage  for £24,000 with Aviva (Mortgage A). She 
had contacted Aviva (then Norwich Union)  and an adviser came to see her and helped  her 
make an application  for a capital access plan.
In 2004 Mrs S approached Aviva again. She wanted to release  more equity from her home. 
The same adviser shed seen in 1999 came to see her. She was advised by Aviva  that she 
couldnt borrow more  money on her existing equity release plan.  But she could  re-mortgage  
on to a different  type of equity release mortgage  on different terms. 
Mrs S took out an index  linked capital release plan for £70,400  (Mortgage  B). This mortgage 
completed in December 2004. It was used to repay the outstanding balance of Mortgage A 
and gave Mrs S access to around  £25,000  of additional capital.
In 2018 Mrs M became  aware of the details of the mortgages her mother had taken out and 
the balance that was now owed. Mrs M says her mother  is now suffering from poor health 
and may need  to go into a nursing home.  Shes worried that she was mis-sold the 
mortgages by Aviva and as a result of this mis-sale  she now doesnt have the financial 
security she should have in her old age. 
Mrs M says her mother would never  have taken out the mortgages  if shed known that the 
balance could escalate over time as it has. She has also questioned what  information was 
shown to Mrs S at the time the mortgage  was sold, and whether it was good advice to 
refinance Mortgage A with Mortgage  B in 2004 when the second mortgage was more 
expensive.  
Mrs M complained to Aviva  on behalf  of her mother but Aviva  didnt uphold her complaint.  It 
had looked into the advice  given  when the mortgages were taken out and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time. In summary  it didnt think the advice to take out Mortgages A and 
B had been  unsuitable  and it said Mrs S had been  told how the mortgages  would  operate.
Mrs M didnt  accept Avivas response and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator 
didnt think we could  look at whether Mortgage A had been mis-sold to Mrs S because 
mortgage advice  wasnt regulated at the time. He looked at the advice to take out Mortgage 
B given  by Aviva in 2004. He didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded 
that the advice  given  by Aviva hadnt been  unsuitable for Mrs Ss financing  needs at the 
time. And he thought that the mortgage  had been clearly explained to Mrs S before it was 
taken out.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings.  Shes responded to say that Aviva didnt 
share with Mrs S the figures  of what she would owe over different  periods of time. If it had 
Mrs S would have realised how much the balance could escalate  and she would never have 
taken out the mortgages.
Ref: DRN56250982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 16 January  2019  setting out why we werent able to look at 
the sale of Mortgage A. In this decision Im looking at the other  part of this complaint 
involving the advice  given in 2004 and the sale of Mortgage B.
First Id like to say Im sorry  to hear that Mrs S is suffering  from ill health  and that I 
appreciate how difficult  the present situation  must  be for Mrs S and Mrs M. I dont 
underestimate how important this complaint is for them  both and I realise the significant 
impact that this equity  release mortgage  has on Mrs Ss finances.  
Having looked  at all the evidence again, I find myself in broad agreement  with our 
investigator. I dont  think this complaint  should  succeed. Let me explain why below.
was Mortgage  B unsuitable for Mrs Ss needs in 2004?
Ive looked at all the evidence from the sale of Mortgage B to try to build up a picture  of what 
was exactly what was discussed at the time.  Im conscious this mortgage was taken out 15 
years ago. Its to be expected that the passage of time will make it more  difficult  for both 
Mrs S and the advisor to recollect exactly what was said. Thats why Ive focused  on the 
evidence available  from the time to try to establish  whether I think  Mrs S was given 
unsuitable advice  or mis-sold Mortgage  B.
Ive asked Aviva if I can see a copy of the fact find and the advisors recommendation letter  
from the 2004 sale. It has said these documents arent available to share with us. This is 
problematic as these  documents record  exactly what  Mrs Ss situation was at the time the 
mortgage was sold and why Mortgage  B was considered suitable for her needs at the time. 
Although these records might not be available now, Im persuaded they were completed  at 
the time.  I say this because theyre ticked  as being completed and sent (along with the 
application form and other money laundering checklists) to Avivas compliance and internal 
processing teams. However, the sale was a long time ago and Aviva  isnt required to retain 
documents indefinitely.  So I will consider  what I think  most likely  to have happened based on 
the evidence that is available.
In the absence of these  documents being  available to me now,  Ive looked  at all the other 
paperwork produced  from the time. Ive also looked  at the paperwork that supported  the sale 
of Mortgage A in 1999 which was completed  by the same advisor. The fact find from 1999 
was five years before  the sale of Mortgage B but there are a number of aspects  of Mrs Ss 
financial situation that wouldnt have changed that much in the five year period in question.
In 2004 Mrs S approached Aviva to ask if she could release further equity from her home. 
The advisor recorded that:
I have already  seen  Mrs [S] once. She contacted me as she wanted to release more  equity. 
She has a Capital Access Plan and she cannot  release  any more equity on this plan. I have 
discussed the implication and additional  costs involved if she replaces  this Capital Access 
Plan, including the Early  Repayment Charge.
Ref: DRN56250983Ive looked carefully  at the application  form completed by Mrs S by hand. All the evidence  
from the time indicates that Mrs S wanted to release more  equity from her home. On the 
application form Mrs S has ticked the box to release  as much equity from her home as was 
possible. But Ive also about whether it was good  advice  for Avivas advisor to recommend 
that she did so. 
The fact find completed  by the advisor  in 1999 records  Mrs Ss financial situation  at the time 
and her financing  objectives. Mrs S was retired and was receiving a relatively modest 
pension income.  Records produced by Aviva  show that Mrs S had already spent the £24,000 
advance shed got from Mortgage  A five years  before, and shed also spent  a considerable 
portion of her savings.  She had remaining  savings,  which I estimate  were  in the region of 
£30,000 left. I think  its reasonable to assume  that these savings would not have lasted for 
many more years based on Mrs S expenditure in the years up to 2004.
Mrs S wanted a further equity release mortgage.  The advisor records Mrs S wanted to 
change her car and get double glazing throughout her home. The application  form 
completed by Mrs S says she wanted  some extra funds to supplement  her income  for the 
next five years. Mrs S applied to borrow  the maximum amount  available based upon  the 
current value of her home which was £70,400.  She has written in the application form that 
this money is to repay her existing mortgage  (Mortgage A) and borrow  more funds. I think  
Mrs S understood that she couldnt  borrow any more  money  on Mortgage A and that 
Mortgage B would  need to be large enough to repay her existing borrowing, and then she 
would have access to an additional sum.
Mrs Ms said now that there was no need for Mrs S to take out an equity release mortgage  in 
2004. This is because  she had savings at the time.  However, Im persuaded from all the 
evidence that Mrs S was regularly using her savings to supplement  her income  and that she 
was worried about  how sustainable this could be going forward. 
Ive thought about whether there were other ways that Mrs S could have paid for double 
glazing, or financed  buying a car instead of her using  her savings or taking out further  equity 
release borrowing.  Mrs S could have  arranged alternative finance,  but that would have 
meant monthly debt repayments. The advisor records  that Mrs S only had a surplus  of 
around £14 each month after her bills and regular expenditure. So Im not persuaded that 
monthly debt commitments would have  been affordable for her. 
Overall Im persuaded  that Mrs S had limited options at the time other than equity release or 
for her to sell her home and downsize. I cant see that Mrs S and the advisor specifically 
discussed the possibility of Mrs S selling her home in 2004.  Having taken  into account the 
evidence, Mrs Ss actions at the time and the wider circumstances,  I think Mrs S was very 
keen to stay in her home and equity release borrowing was a way for her to do that and have 
access to additional  funds. I dont think it was clearly  unsuitable  that the advisor 
recommended a further equity release mortgage (Mortgage B).
was it fair that Mortgage A was refinanced by the more expensive  Mortgage B?
Ive thought carefully about whether it was fair that Mrs S was made to repay  Mortgage  A 
with Mortgage  B. Mortgage B had a more expensive rate of interest and the advisor  warned 
Mrs S of the costs involved  in refinancing.  I can see why Mrs M is concerned that this cant  
have been good advice.
Ref: DRN56250984Aviva has said Mrs S had already borrowed the maximum she could under a capital release 
plan when she took out Mortgage A. The advisor  was aware that refinancing Mortgage A by 
taking out the larger  Mortgage B would  involve additional costs for Mrs S, including  possibly 
incurring an ERC. Aviva  has also said it wouldnt have been  an option for Mrs S to leave 
Mortgage A in place  and take out a further equity release loan to operate  alongside 
Mortgage A. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mortgage A and it wasnt  a flexible 
product and when  the loan was taken out it was made clear that no further advances were  
allowed.
Im satisfied the only way for Mrs S to borrow more capital was to repay Mortgage A in full 
and to take out a second larger mortgage on different terms and at a different rate of 
interest. 
Having taken into account all the evidence, Im satisfied  that it wasnt an option  for Mortgage 
A to be left running  and for only the further  borrowing to be taken out at a higher rate of 
interest. And so, as the only way that Mrs S could  secure the further  borrowing she wanted, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  that Aviva asked  for Mortgage A to be repaid as a condition 
of Mortgage B being agreed. Mortgage B involved borrowing more money, it gave Mrs S the 
flexibility to potentially borrow further  amounts in the future, and it presented  a greater  
degree of risk for Aviva.  So overall  I dont think its unfair  that Mortgage B was charged at a 
higher rate of interest.
was Mrs S made  aware  of the costs of repaying  Mortgage A and the ongoing costs  of 
Mortgage B?
Ive looked at the redemption statement that showed Mrs S needed to repay around £44,000 
to settle Mortgage  A. This figure  was made of the capital balance,  accrued interest and an 
administrative fee of £300 for closing the mortgage  account. I note no ERC was payable by 
Mrs S for repaying Mortgage A. This was due to the level of gilt yields at the time Mortgage  
A was repaid.  The evidence shows that the advisor  made Mrs S aware that there might be 
an ERC payable  by settling Mortgage  A early  but in this instance there wasnt  any ERC 
applied. There doesnt appear to have  been any other hidden  costs of Mrs S repaying 
Mortgage A. She simply  repaid the amount already outstanding under the Mortgage A and 
paid an administrative fee for closing one mortgage  account and an application fee for 
setting up a new mortgage. I think that seems  reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs M has specifically  complained that Aviva didnt explain the costs  of the mortgage and 
how the balance  would  escalate over time.  Mrs M says if Mrs S had known that she would 
owe around £200,000 on the mortgages  by 2017 she wouldnt have  taken out the 
mortgages. 
The loan agreement  clearly sets out that Mortgage  B was for £70,400 and that (after  
repaying Mortgage A and a £500 application fee) Mrs S would release capital of around 
£26,000 by taking out Mortgage B. 
The loan agreement  says that interest  isnt payable until the mortgage is repaid. Instead 
interest is compounded  and added to the amount  of capital  borrowed once  a year on the 
anniversary of the loan being  taken  out. I note the rate of interest to be charged is 4.89% per 
annum compound, plus an additional  amount equivalent to any increase in Retail  Price  Index  
during the previous 12 months. Theres a maximum interest rate (or interest rate cap) of 
10.14% that the loan agreement says is to protect  Mrs S from the effects of high inflation. 
Ref: DRN56250985Ive looked at the personalised  illustration of the index-linked cash  release plan that was 
prepared for Mrs S in October 2004.  This was sent to Mrs S on the 18 October 2004. The 
illustration sets out in a series of tables what the loan balance  could grow to if the borrowing 
was in place for 1 year, 5 years, 10 years and 20 years.  It also shows what  would happen if 
inflation was at 0%, 2.5% and 5%. According to the table if inflation was at 2.5% in 10 years 
Mrs S would need to pay back  £145,262. 
The personal illustration  gives a range of scenarios that could happen  in the future. The 
document says under  the section called will there  be any money left after your home is 
sold?:
 we cant predict with certainty the amount  that would be left to you or your estate if the plan 
is repaid from the proceeds from selling your home. This is because  this amount will depend 
on the time until:
-the loan is repaid;
-the rate of inflation each year; and 
-the change  in the value of your home.
Im satisfied that the personal illustration gave  a variety of scenarios that could occur over 
different time periods  and in changing  market conditions. Estimates of the potential future 
amount of borrowing over 1, 5, 10 and 20 years were given assuming property prices 
increased in line with inflation, if property  prices increased by more than inflation, and if 
property prices fell faster  than inflation.  I think these  estimates were  given to try to help Mrs 
S understand that nature  of the long term borrowing that she was entering into and the 
potential future balance that she could  owe under  the mortgage agreement.
I think Mrs S might  not have  fully appreciated the long term implications of the mortgage she 
was taking out. I say this because Mrs S asked for an advisor to come to her home  in 2010 
as she had some questions about her mortgage  and how it worked.  She wanted to be able 
to ask questions  with a relative  there  to help her understand the mechanics of the mortgage. 
I think this was a reasonable request from Mrs S and understandable. There are aspects of 
Mortgage B that are complicated.  But I dont think Mrs S later asking Aviva for clarification of 
how the mortgage worked meant  it was necessarily  misrepresented or mis-sold to her in 
2004. 
There are various stages in the process  for taking out an equity  release  mortgage. There  
were months between Mrs S making the application  and the mortgage completing  in 
December 2004.  During that time Mrs S had the opportunity to reflect on the mortgage and 
consider her options  and to talk to her family about  her plans if she was concerned  or 
unsure. Avivas said Mrs S had a relative  present  during the meetings with the advisor.  
Mrs S had also ticked on the mortgage application form that shed discussed her plans to 
take out the mortgage with her family.  
Mrs S would also have discussed  the terms of the mortgage with the same solicitor shed 
met with in 1999  before entering into Mortgage  A. This meeting with a legal representative 
was to ensure  a third party, acting for Mrs S, had checked that she understood how the 
mortgage would work,  that it was an arrangement that she wanted, and that she knew the 
financial impact of the transaction she was entering into. 
From the evidence presented to me, Im not persuaded that Mortgage  B was unsuitable for 
Mrs Ss needs at the time the mortgage  was taken out. I havent  seen  evidence  that supports 
Ref: DRN56250986the claim that the financial costs, or impact, of the borrowing  wasnt shared with Mrs S when 
the mortgage was sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S, or Mrs M 
on her behalf, to accept  or reject my decision before  19 April 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5625098