K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma)  was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
This complaint is about four loans Satsuma provided to Mr W between 1 August  2014 and 
13 May 2016. Each of the loans was due to be repaid in weekly instalments. Mr W paid the 
first two loans he took out. But Mr W hasnt  paid the last two loans he took out in November 
2015 and May 2016. 
Heres a loan table showing further  details.
Loan Loan amount 
Start date Loan paid Term of loan
Payment amount
1 £300.00 1.8.2014 12.12.2014 26 Weeks
£19.38 Weekly
2 £328.03 15.12.2014 15.12.2015 52 Weeks
£16.10 Weekly
3 £600.00 19.11.2015  Loan 
outstanding 52 Weeks
£22.29 Weekly
4 £900.00 13.5.2016 Loan outstanding 
52 Weeks
£34.34 Weekly
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint  and thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have 
been given. 
Satsuma didnt respond to our adjudicators  view.  So the complaint came to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN57139512the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Satsuma told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked Mr W to provide 
details of his income  and to tell Satsuma what he normally spent each month  including 
what he paid towards any other credit  arrangements  he had set up. Satsuma carried  out 
checks on Mr Ws credit file. Satsuma also told us it adjusted  the figures where it thought  it 
helpful to try and reflect  Mr Ws real life financial circumstances as accurately as possible. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks and they dont show anything that I think 
should reasonably have  made Satsuma think loan 1 wasnt  affordable  for Mr W.
The repayments that Mr W had agreed to make  on this loan looked  comfortably affordable  
compared to the income that hed declared to Satsuma. So given these repayment  amounts, 
what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history  with 
the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first loan.
But loan 2 was taken over a longer period of time  possibly to keep the cost of the monthly 
repayments down.  When it was being  arranged,  Satsuma  expected  Mr W to be paying  for 
this borrowing over a year. Given that hed arranged  loan 2 to start just a few days  after 
paying off loan 1, this meant that by the end of his second loan term, Mr W would've been 
more or less continuously  indebted to Satsuma for around 17 months.  
So I think Satsuma should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information he was 
providing about his finances. I dont think it was any longer  reasonable for Satsuma to base 
its lending decision on the information Mr W was providing. I think it wouldve been  
proportionate for Satsuma  to independently  check the true state of Mr Ws finances  before 
agreeing to lend loan 2.
Ref: DRN57139513Mr W has provided his bank  statements  so Ive looked through  these to see what Satsuma 
was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have done 
this. But in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Ws 
finances at the time. And had Satsuma looked  in depth at Mr Ws finances it would likely 
have seen that he was facing problems  managing  his money. I think it would have seen that 
he was regularly borrowing from several  other  payday lenders  and it looked like he had 
used some of the money hed previously borrowed from Satsuma to repay other  short term 
loans that were due. If Satsuma had checked Mr Ws bank statements or made other 
proportionate enquiries into his financial circumstances,  I think it wouldve become aware 
that his bank account was usually overdrawn. And it was generally the case  around  that time 
that more money  was going out of his account each month than was coming in. 
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Satsuma to conclude that it was likely Mr W would be 
able to repay loan 2, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 3. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought to have realised  Mr W was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr W took out loan 3 before hed paid loan 2  and by then hed 
been indebted to Satsuma for around  sixteen months. So Satsuma ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr W was having  to borrow  further to cover  the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ws 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ws first loan was for £300 and loan 3 was for £600   twice as much as hed 
borrowed when he took out his first Satsuma loan. So when he asked for loan 3, 
I think Satsuma ought to have known that Mr W wasnt likely to be borrowing to meet  
a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr W wasnt making any inroads into the amount he owed Satsuma. He had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Satsuma over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr W lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to have  negative  implications 
on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 2, 3 and 4 and based on all the 
information Ive seen so far, Im planning  to say that Satsuma should put things right.
Ref: DRN57139514what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Both Mr W and Satsuma  said they agreed with what I said in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as both Mr W and Satsuma  agree with what I've said,  I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what Satsuma should  do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loan 2 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any outstanding interest and charges from loans 3 and 4
when Satsuma works out what it owes Mr W, it can first apply this towards  offsetting 
any outstanding  capital balance Mr W owes on loans 3 and 4. And if there is still any 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Satsuma that it should  take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in relation  to loan 2
remove all information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ws credit file when these  are 
repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as 
Satsuma) to pay Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5713951