K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) have declined their claim for 
palliative care at home for Mr Z under their private medical insurance policy (PMI).
background
Mr and Mrs Z are represented by a solicitor.  For simplicity Ill refer to all submissions as 
made by Mr and Mrs Z. 
Mr and Mrs Z have  had private medical insurance  with AXA for many  years.  In July 2018 
Mr Z saw a consultant privately who recommended a CT scan and tests  to investigate rectal  
bleeding. Before  he could have the recommended  scan Mr Z collapsed  and was admitted to 
an NHS hospital. He was in hospital  for three weeks  during which  time he had the CT scan  
which showed masses  in one of his kidneys and in his colon. These  were  thought  to be 
cancerous. 
While Mr Z was in hospital, but before the diagnosis of cancer was confirmed, Mrs Z rang 
AXA to see what assistance they could provide when Mr Z was discharged  from hospital. 
Mr Z had cancer cover under his policy but Mrs Z was told this cover only applied once the 
diagnosis of cancer had been  confirmed. 
Sadly during Mr Zs hospital stay the diagnosis of cancer was confirmed. Mr and Mrs Z were  
told his condition was inoperable  and he could be discharged home once the necessary  
arrangements for his care were in place. Mrs Z rang AXA wanting to know  what  assistance  
they could offer as she said her husband  needed  full time care.
Mrs Z spoke  to AXA a number of times and was unhappy as she was told even though  the 
policy provided additional cover, after a cancer  diagnosis, there were limitations to this 
cover. Mr Zs policy does cover  palliative  and end of life care as set out in the policy. 
Mrs Z wanted AXA to provide home  care for her husband. AXA told Mrs Z a treatment plan 
had to be recommended  by her husbands specialist and until this had been  done they 
couldnt confirm  what they could cover. But AXA told her the policy didnt  cover  nursing care,  
as this wasnt treatment,  although cover  could be provided for a nurse to administer 
chemotherapy and/or antibiotics at home if Mr Zs specialist  confirmed  this was required. 
Mrs Z didnt  accept AXAs definition  of treatment as she said what her husband  required was 
care, so she regarded this as treatment for his cancer which  should  be covered under the 
policy.
Mrs Zs complained to AXA about the limitations  of the cover provided by the policy. AXA 
said they didnt  believe any policy would provide the cover Mrs Z expected  and confirmed 
what the policy would cover,  which  didnt  include the nursing  or home  care Mrs Z was 
seeking. AXA said they believed the membership handbook explained in detail the benefits 
and limitations of cover. They also said that any treatment must be under the direction of a 
recognised specialist, and their responsibility was to cover the eligible costs for the 
recommended treatment. AXA said once they had the treating specialists recommendations 
they could advise Mrs Z what cover they could provide.
Mrs Z then brought a complaint to our service  that AXA had declined  a claim for palliative 
care at home for her husband.
Ref: DRN50199942Before our investigator provided  her opinion Mrs Z provided further details of her husbands 
condition, the care hed been receiving since his discharge from hospital, information about 
hospice at home care and details of the cost of his care.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and said our service is only able to look at a 
complaint that AXA has already had a chance  to consider. She said that AXA had only 
provided an indication  of how they would  approach  such a claim. And no claim for 
Mr Zs care had been submitted since he was discharged from hospital. So as AXA hadnt 
received a claim for Mr Zs care, it hadnt been assessed, or declined. So she didnt 
recommend the complaint was upheld.
Mrs Z asked  for the complaint to be reviewed as she said when AXA provided their response  
to her complaint they didnt tell her she needed  to submit a claim for her husbands care.  
And she was left with the impression that cover wouldnt be provided. She also said if she 
made a claim AXA would provide a procedure code,  and as none  was given during her calls 
with AXA,  she could  only contact our service on the basis that the claim had been  declined.
Our investigator issued  a further opinion in response  to the points  raised by Mrs Z. She said 
the claims procedure  of obtaining  an authorisation code wouldnt apply in this case. This was 
the claims procedure  for authorisation  of a specific procedure with a set cost, such  as a CT 
scan. She also said it wasnt contradictory  for AXA to say there  was cover for hospice  care 
at home,  but not for home help, as theyre  not the same thing. And she said from the 
information Mrs Z had provided it appeared the assistance Mr Z had required was more than 
home help.  But this would need  to be looked at by AXA as its not our role to assess  claims. 
And while she said she wouldnt expect  AXA to invite a claim,  she said theyd said they 
would consider what cover they could provide once the specialist had recommended a 
treatment plan. And as Mrs Z hadnt  gone back to AXA when the treatment plan was put in 
place, she still felt that Mrs Z needed  to let AXA have details of Mr Zs treatment  or care so 
his claim could be assessed. So she didnt change her decision not to recommend the 
complaint be upheld .
Mr and Mrs Z didnt  agree  so the case has come to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Zs PMI policy with AXA provides an enhanced level of cover once a formal 
diagnosis of cancer has been  made. Details of this cover  are set out in the membership 
handbook which AXA had provided  to Mr and Mrs Z. 
Ive listened to the calls Mrs Z made to AXA about her husband  and I appreciate that this 
was a very difficult and upsetting time for them both. And I think  this is acknowledged  by 
AXA during  the calls and in their letter of 12 July 2018. From the calls its clear that 
Mrs Z had read the membership handbook  and she had formed her own view of the cover 
the policy should provide. I think AXA tried to explain to Mrs Z what cover was provided  
under the policy  and that any treatment needed to be guided by Mr Zs treating specialist. 
From the first call Mrs Z made to AXA she was unhappy with what she was told about  the 
cover available under the policy. On 29 June 2018 one of AXA cancer care team had a long 
conversation with Mrs Z about  what the policy would cover. Mrs Z said her husband was 
Ref: DRN50199943being discharged from hospital and she wanted everything in place so her husband was safe 
and she didnt want to have to call AXA to authorise  treatment.  Mrs Z was understandably  
very emotional and distressed. Her main concern was that once her husband was home 
Mrs Z believed he needed  full-time  nursing care and she didnt accept that the policy didnt 
provide this, as she felt this fell under palliative care, which the policy does cover.  Although 
such cover  is only in line with the policy definition of palliative care.  I think the nurse  who 
called Mrs Z tried to manage her expectations  about  what  the policy  would cover. 
Over a period  of about 10 days  Mrs Z spoke to AXA a number of times to discuss  the cover 
their policy provided for her husband.  What  is clear from all these calls is her dissatisfaction 
with the level of cover the policy provided following his cancer diagnosis, and that this didnt 
meet her expectations.  During a call on 6 July 2018  Mrs Z told AXA she had a meeting with 
her husbands  treating  specialist the following Monday, 9 July 2018, to see what treatment 
was being recommended.  And it was suggested Mrs Z try and find out who would be able to 
treat her husband  privately, and call AXA after the meeting to see what help could  be 
offered. 
AXA then wrote to Mrs Z on 12 July 2018 regarding her complaint about the cover provided  
for Mr Zs treatment. In this letter  AXA say that the benefits and limitations provided under 
the policy following  a diagnosis of cancer are explained in detail in the membership 
handbook. The letter sets out the cover provided  by the policy  and reminds  Mrs Z that she 
was asked to call AXA, after the appointment with her husbands treating specialist, so they 
could let her know what  cover they can provide.  But I havent seen any evidence  that a 
treatment plan was sent to AXA.  
While Mrs Z wasnt happy with what  shed been  told the policy  would cover, she hadnt 
submitted a claim. AXA told her to contact them  once she had the specialists treatment plan 
so they could advise what cover  they could provide. And they told her they had her 
husbands consent, so they could request any further information  they needed from the 
specialist. 
Mrs Z has said that AXA should have told her she needed to submit  a claim and that as she 
was told the care she wanted  for her husband, and the invoices she submitted, werent 
covered she thought her claim had been  declined. The invoices Mrs Z had submitted were 
for an outpatient consultation and pathology tests, before  Mr Zs cancer  diagnosis,  when 
they didnt have outpatient  cover. And Mrs Z acknowledges shes aware they didnt have 
outpatient cover, before  her husbands  cancer diagnosis,  during one of the telephone 
conversations. So I dont think its reasonable to say a claim had been  declined on the basis  
of these invoices  not being covered.
Ive said that when Mrs Z spoke to AXA the conversations were about  what she expected  
the policy to provide and that AXA tried to make clear what was covered. This is confirmed in 
their letter of 12 July 2018. But AXA hadnt  declined the claim, theyd told Mrs Z once they 
had the specialists treatment plan theyd  advise what  cover they could provide. 
As Mrs Z didnt contact AXA with the treatment plan they didnt  have the opportunity to 
consider and assess the claim and advise Mr and Mrs Z what treatment or care was covered 
under the policy.  So while I understand the very difficult circumstances I think AXA made  it 
clear what  Mrs Z needed to do for a claim to be considered and I dont think  they acted 
unreasonably.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs Z did subsequently submit a claim but this is being dealt with as a 
separate complaint by this service.
Ref: DRN50199944  .
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Zs claim  
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5019994