K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that DAS Legal  expenses Insurance  Company Limited  (DAS) unfairly 
withdrew cover under  his legal expenses insurance policy.
Background
Mr M made a claim on his policy to cover the legal  costs  of a dispute  with his neighbours 
who had caused  damage to his property.
DAS initially refused the claim  on the basis that their panel firm of solicitors didnt believe 
Mr Ms case had reasonable prospects of being  successful, which is a condition  of cover 
under his policy. Mr M disagreed and obtained  a legal opinion of his own.  And this was 
supportive. So in 2015, DAS agreed to accept the claim and appointed Mr Ms chosen 
solicitor to represent him under  the policy. 
In 2017, the neighbours  made an offer to settle which Mr Ms solicitor  said was reasonable. 
But Mr M wasnt happy with the offer. His solicitors said there were parts of the offer that 
could be improved on, so DAS agreed to continue funding settlement negotiations. 
But in 2018,  no agreement had been  made.  The legal advice provided  to DAS by Mr Ms 
solicitors and a barrister was that the offer was reasonable. The advice said the cost of 
issuing proceedings would bring  the legal costs to more than the amount in dispute.  And 
there was a high risk that a judge  would order Mr M to pay the other sides  legal costs as he 
hadnt accepted a reasonable  offer.  Based on this advice,  DAS withdrew funding.  
Mr M wasnt happy with this decision, so he complained to our service.  Our investigator was 
satisfied DAS acted  fairly  and in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. He said 
the policy was clear that Mr M must  follow the legal advice and failure to do so could result in 
funding being  withdrawn.  So he didnt  think DAS had done  anything wrong. 
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigator,  the case was passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what the policy will cover. Having done so, I think  it was reasonable for DAS to 
come to the decision that cover should be withdrawn.  Ill explain why.
Its a condition of the policy that a claim must have a reasonable chance of success and that 
the legal  costs of pursuing the claim shouldnt  exceed the amount in dispute. 
In addition, the policy sets out the obligations  on Mr M that he must follow for cover to be 
provided. This includes following the legal representatives advice and notifying them and 
DAS of any offers of settlement.  In particular, the policy says if youdo not accept a 
reasonable offer to settle a claim, we may refuse  to pay any further costs and expenses. 
Ref: DRN52079362Im satisfied these policy terms are clear. And terms like this are common  in legal expenses  
policies. They mean insurers  dont have to meet costs if a claim is unlikely to be successful, 
the costs are too high compared  to the value of the claim, or where a reasonable offer has 
been made. 
When making decisions in respect  of the prospects of a claim; the proportionality of legal 
costs; and whether  an offer is reasonable, Id expect DAS to rely on legal advice. In Mr Ms 
case I can see that both Mr Ms solicitor and a barrister  have  confirmed the chances of 
beating the neighbours  settlement  offer arent  reasonable. Their  legal advice was to accept 
the offer, and proceeding to court would be disproportionate in terms of costs and would 
likely result in the other sides costs  being  awarded.  
As DAS would be liable to pay both sides legal costs, its for DAS to decide  whether it wants 
to take on the risk of that. Based on the legal advice it had been  provided with, I think  it was 
reasonable for DAS to make  the decision that funding should be withdrawn. 
Mr M has made a number of points  about  whether the proposed settlement was reasonable. 
Its not for me to comment on that. Im only considering how DAS handled the claim on his 
insurance policy. In circumstances where  the legal advice clearly  said the offer was one 
Mr M should accept, the decision  to withdraw  funding was in line with the policy terms and 
was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5207936