K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained to Canada Life Limited about the size of the premium 
increase they needed to pay to maintain the existing sum assured following the review of a 
whole life policy in December 2016.  On receiving the outcome of the review  in December 
2017, which required them to pay an even  greater premium to support a lower sum assured, 
they surrendered  the policy after 26 years.
They are represented  by their son, who says Canada Life failed to provide Mr and Mrs D 
sufficient information  to prepare them for the eventual  scale  of the premium  increases, or 
loss of life cover, following  future  reviews. 
Specifically, if Canada Life had provided information  at previous reviews about how life cover  
was being funded, they would have appreciated that mortality charges had become greater 
than the monthly  premiums and that the cost of life cover was being funded from the value of 
the policy, as well as by the monthly premium itself.  Even though the value of the policy  
enabled the monthly premium to remain unchanged to meet mortality costs until the 2016 
review, Mr and Mrs D should have been able to see beforehand that there  might  come a 
time when  monthly  premiums would need  to increase to cover mortality  costs because  the 
policy value was being progressively exhausted.      
In response to the decision  from Canada Life rejecting this complaint, Mr and Mrs D also 
complained that the policy had been mis-sold to them in 1992 because  the policy  didnt 
operate quite  how they were led to believe at that time.
Mr and Mrs D have requested Canada Life to agree a date when they could reasonably  have 
made a decision  to surrender the policy once  it became apparent  that it would become 
unaffordable or the level of life cover so reduced  that there would be little point maintaining  
it. Canada Life should then pay them the surrender value of the policy  at that date and all the 
premiums they paid since, plus interest  on both, less the surrender value they took in 
February 2018.
background
Mr and D took out a reviewable whole life policy 1992 for Inheritance  Tax mitigation on the 
advice of a predecessor firm of Canada Life. The policy provided a sum assured (life cover)    
of £70,000 on a joint life, second death  basis at a monthly premium  of £140.00.
Canada Life has since confirmed that the policy was set up on a less than standard  
assured basis.
In the event, the policy was able to sustain the sum assured of £70,000 from the monthly  
premium of £140.00 for 25 years until the December  2016 review, when the premium for 
2017 was required  to increase to £263.40  per month. Otherwise, the sum assured would 
reduce to £62,630 when Mr and Mrs D opted  to keep the premium  at £140.00 per month. 
The next policy review  in December 2017  required  Mr and Mrs D to increase their monthly  
premium to £679.55 to maintain the sum assured at £62,630. Otherwise, life cover would 
reduce to £35,770 if they left the monthly premium at £140.00. At this point, Mr and Mrs D 
decided to surrender  the policy for approximately  £6,500 in February  2018  because they had 
Ref: DRN55939222paid almost as much  in total premium as the amount of life cover  the policy would now 
provide.
In correspondence  with Mr and Mrs D throughout 2018, Canada  Life confirmed that:
the policy value  fell since 2011  because  units are surrendered  to pay the mortality 
costs and policy charges, as the original policy provisions explained;
the actual  mortality costs per £10,000  sum assured since 2011  have  progressively 
increased; 
it wasnt possible to predict  increases in premiums (or reductions  in the sum assured) 
at future reviews as this was dependent on unit prices, which can fluctuate;
the minimum sum assured is £14,070;
the current surrender  value was around £6,500;
the original advice they received  in 1992 was suitable for them  and that the 
documentation they received at the time sufficiently  explained how the policy worked.
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  was assessed by one of our investigators, who felt it couldnt be 
upheld. Having considered all the correspondence between  Mr and Mrs D and Canada Life, 
he concluded that:
the policy has operated as he would have expected for a reviewable whole life plan, 
in that Mr and Mrs D were not required to increase monthly premiums to the policy  
for 25 years until they became elderly;
as far as he can see, Canada Life has managed the policy correctly and hasnt 
breached any regulatory  rules  when carrying out policy  reviews.  So, he couldnt say it 
had done anything wrong;
while Mr and Mrs D say Canada Life failed to provide them sufficient information to 
prepare for the scale of premium increases or loss of cover, it couldnt provide the 
explicit information they feel they should have received. Canada Life did make  them  
aware that premiums  were likely  to increase in time to support the original  level of 
cover, it provided literature at the point  of sale that explained  the reasons for, and 
implications of, periodic reviews and sent them annual statements confirming the 
ongoing unitholding and policy value;
Canada Life didnt  give specific figures  on the size of the premium  increases needed. 
But it wasnt possible for it to do so until the review was actually carried out. So, 
unless Canada Life had given  Mr and Mrs D some sort of guarantee that the policy 
would remain unchanged throughout,  it was difficult to say that it had done anything  
wrong;
the review letter  from December 2012 confirmed  that the current  monthly  premium  
was sufficient to support  the life cover  until the next review. But it warned that it 
would not support  the level of cover  for the rest of their lives.  Mr and Mrs D say that, 
if theyd been  provided better information  at that point, they might have surrendered 
the policy at that point. But Canada  Life did offer in that review to calculate a new 
monthly premium that would make any future changes  smaller. As it didnt receive a 
response from Mr and Mrs D to that offer, it couldnt make  that change  to the policy;
otherwise, although Canada  Life couldnt have predicted what level of premiums 
would be required in the future, it did warn Mr and Mrs D that premium  would  need  to 
increase if they wanted to keep the same level of cover.  Theres  no evidence that 
these premium increase  would be minimal;
the policy did guarantee that life cover  would not reduce to less than 75 per cent of 
the total premiums  paid until Mrs Ds 75th birthday. 
Ref: DRN55939223In response, Mr and Mrs Ds son disagreed with the investigators assessment and 
maintained that 
the sudden  huge increases in premiums  - from £140.00 per month to £263.40 and to 
£679.55 in the space  of two years at their advanced  age - should not have come as 
such a surprise to Mr and Mrs D;
nothing in the original policy documentation  or subsequent correspondence explains 
that they should expect changes of this magnitude as a normal  consequence of 
these policies;
its questionable  whether Canada Life has treated Mr and Mrs D fairly in managing  
their policy.
The investigator replied  to say that:
while he appreciated the point  made  by Mr and Mrs D, they hadnt provided any 
evidence that Canada Life had treated them unfairly. It gave them no impression that 
there would  never be any changes made  to their policy.  He couldnt uphold  their 
complaint because Canada Life had made them aware that future reviews were likely  
to need an increase  in premiums to keep  the same  level of benefit. While  it didnt  
give specific figures, that wasnt possible to do until the review  takes  place;
in the December 2012 review  letter, Canada Life offered to calculate a monthly 
premium to ensure  that any future premium increased could be manageable. But
it didnt receive a response from Mr and Mrs D to this proposal;
he needed to see evidence that Canada  Life could have provided more  precise  
predictive figures to Mr and Mrs D ahead  of each review and that wasnt possible.
Finally, Mr and Mrs Ds son said that:
the investigators comments highlight a problem  with whole  life policies that needs  to 
be addressed;
Outcome 2 of the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  Finalised Guidance FG 16/8 Fair 
treatment of long-standing  customers in the life insurance sector refers to 
communications to help customers  make informed  decisions;
Mr and Mrs D arent  disputing  that Canada Life didnt provide guarantees. It was the 
size and scale of the premium  increase  that could have been flagged  up. They 
werent expecting  specific  figures  - just a clear  and better indication of how premiums 
were likely to rise over time so that a more informed decision  could have been made;
When Mr and Mrs D received  the review letter in December 2012, Mr D was in his 
late 80s and showing signs of dementia; Mrs D was in her mid-80s  and also had 
serious health issues. Their focus  would have been on that part of the review letter  
that assured them the monthly premium  could still support the existing level of cover.  
They may not have  realised the implications of the second part of the letter;
it seems inconceivable that Canada Life did not know how premiums  were likely to 
increase as the policy progressed, and that substantial increases would become 
inevitable as Mr and Mrs D grew older;
our services own guidance and much  press coverage have been devoted to 
policyholders who have suddenly found  themselves with unaffordable  premium 
increases under  whole life policies. It seems  the only people who dont know  that 
large increases  after review are the norm  are the policyholders themselves, which  is 
a failure of the policy provider;
Ref: DRN55939224they accept there will be little record or recollection of the conversations  that took 
place with the adviser in 1992.  But the policy document doesnt make it clear  that 
premiums will inevitably rise - the wording is complex and couched  in vague terms - 
and doesnt give any hint about the scale of premium increases that might be 
required to maintain the level of life cover.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review. 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the original advice they received to take out this policy 
in 1992, as well as the information they were  more recently provided by policy reviews since  
2011. While  Ive separated these two complaints, Im mindful  that they are intrinsically linked 
as to how the policy provides for the funding of benefits.
      
The advice Mr and Mrs D received in 1992  
It is important  to bear in mind that the advice under review was given more than 27 years  
ago, before regulatory disclosure requirements  introduced key features documents  and 
suitability letters in January 1995. But there was an obligation on advisers in 1992  to know 
their customer before  giving advice,  usually through the completion of a factfind. 
The factfind  the adviser completed for Mr and Mrs D confirmed that they were both retired  in 
their late-60s  and mid-60s respectively. They owned  their home outright, which  was worth 
£180,000, held £3,000  in a current account, £3,000  on deposit  and various investments 
worth £110,000. So, the total value of their estate at the time was £296,000.
While Mr D already  held cover of £14,000 on his life through three small whole life policies, 
Mrs D had no cover at all on her life. If Mr M died first, the proceeds from these policies may 
have formed part of their estate as well, increasing  its value to £310,000.
The adviser identified  that Mr and Mrs D had a need to provide  for a future inheritance  tax 
(IHT) liability on the value  of their estate.  As transfers between spouses on death were tax-
exempt, this liability would not occur until both Mr and Mrs D died.   
At that time,  the IHT-exempt  threshold  was £140,000, above which tax was charged at 40 
per cent.  
On the assumption  that the value  of assets in their estate would transfer from Mr D to Mrs D, 
or vice-versa, when the first of them died, their estate stood to incur  a potential IHT liability of 
£68,000 on second death at that time. 
So the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs D to make provision for this future tax liability  by 
taking out a reviewable joint whole  life policy, providing life cover  of £70,000, payable on 
second death and written  in trust for the beneficiaries of their estate. As such,  Im inclined to 
believe the policy was set up according to the level of benefit Mr and Mrs D required at a 
monthly premium of £140.00 they could afford.  
Ref: DRN55939225This type of policy could  be set up with a sum assured which ranged from maximum (or 
minimum premium),  standard  or minimum (or maximum premium) basis.
The maximum amount of life cover  the policy could provide for Mr and Mrs D in 1992 at a 
monthly premium of £140.00 was £105,630 and standard cover was £75,359. 
If the policy had been set up to provide the maximum  sum assured of £105,630, the monthly 
premium would probably have been  required to increase at the first review and further still at 
successive reviews. As such, I would have been inclined to question this advice given the 
policy needed to remain in force, and affordable, until second death  when the IHT liability 
would arise.   
But the standard  sum assured for this policy was £75,359. So, in recommending a level of 
life cover of £70,000  at a monthly  premium  of £140.00, the adviser was giving  the policy a 
very good chance of remaining in force at the original premium until it became a claim,  
assuming normal life expectancy.  So, in my view, the policy was set up on terms that made 
it suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds need to mitigate IHT.
While I accept that the adviser didnt include explicit risk warnings in his recommendations, 
as  he would have  been required to provide in a suitability letter from January 1995,  the 
policy provisions did explain the concept of policy reviews and that the sum assured may 
need to be reduced  if the monthly premium  cannot  support  it as policyholder  grow  older.  
Neither Canada  Life nor the adviser  could provide any more of an explicit warning than that 
because the adequacy of the premium depends on a number of factors that were unknown 
in 1992 and variable - Mr and Mrs Ds life expectancy, mortality  experience  generally,  future  
investment returns and policy charges  until each review is carried  out.
Policy reviews since December 2011  
In assessing this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, I do have regard  for relevant regulatory 
publications that impact  on the outcome of the complaint.  
But, while Mr and Mrs Ds son has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Finalised 
Guidance 16/8, published in 2016,  regarding Fair treatment of long-standing customers  in 
the life insurance  sector,  it doesnt refer specifically  to the operation of reviewable  whole  
life policies.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D would have known since 1992 that the policy they held was 
reviewable and what that could mean for the monthly premium of £140.00 they paid as they 
grew older.
Typically, for unit linked whole life policies, each month, Canada Life, would have taken a 
mortality charge by deduction of units to cover  the expected cost of it paying  out the sum at 
risk. This is the difference between the sum assured of £70,000 and the ongoing value of the 
policy. In other words, this is the amount Canada Life would have to find from its own 
reserves, which is funded  by mortality deductions taken across all whole  life policies, plus 
the growth made by these deductions.
The monthly mortality  charge  for Mr and Mrs D was calculated according to their age, sex, 
smoker status and state of health,  based  on mortality tables, whose rates generally increase 
with age. So, as the underlying mortality rate increases each  year, the sum assured at risk 
will fluctuate according to the ongoing value of the policy.
Ref: DRN55939226At each  policy review, assumptions are made about  future growth of the policys value to the 
date Mr and Mrs D are expected to die. If these  assumed returns are not achieved,  the 
policy value will be lower, and the sum at risk greater, than Canada Life predicted previously. 
That increases mortality deductions which, in turn, reduce the policy value.  
So, each year, Canada Life will have checked whether the policy  is sufficiently funded to 
maintain the policy  to the next review date; i.e. to cover the next years mortality  charges. It 
seems from the review letters Mr and Mrs D received from 2011 to 2015 that the policy  value 
remained sufficient to support the level of life cover  at the monthly  premium  of £140.00, even 
though the ongoing  value of the policy was contributing to the mortality charges. This saw 
the fund value reduce from approximately £18,000 in 2011 to around £6,500 by 2018. 
But, in each review  letter, Canada Life did warn Mr and Mrs D in the section headed:  Will I 
have to increase  my premiums or reduce my life cover in the future?  that:
the premium  you are currently  paying  will not support  your current  life cover  for the rest of your 
life, assuming  a future growth rate for the funds  you invest  in of 6.00%  (or 4.50%) per year.  
This means  it is almost  certain  that you will need  to increase  your premiums  or reduce  your life 
cover at a future  review.  We can calculate  the premium  you would  need to pay now to support  
your current  level of life cover  for the rest of your life, assuming  a growth  rate of 6.00%  (or 4.50%) 
per year.  The benefit  of doing  this now is that the changes  are likely  to be smaller  than if 
you wait for future  reviews .[my emphasis]   Please  contact  us if you would  like to know  more  
about  this option.
The review  letters attached a factsheet:  Whole of Life Review   Your Questions  Answered 
which gave further  explanation as to why and how reviews are carried  out. This was a 
generic document which couldnt  include exact figures for Mr and Mrs Ds policy.   
The increased monthly premium Mr and Mrs D were invited to request at review might  not 
have guaranteed to support the sum assured of £70,000 for life (if future growth wasnt six or 
four-and-a-half per cent).  But the quoted premium might have been manageable  for them  
and avoided the large escalation in premium at the December 2016 review. Mr and Mrs D 
didnt respond  to this offer in any of the five years it was offered.  If theyd done  so, they 
might have been in a position to decide whether to continue the policy  or to surrender it 
earlier than they did.
In my view, and with particular reference to the penultimate sentence,  Canada  Life could not 
offer any information that was more precise  than the warning it gave in its review  letters. 
Specifically, it could not predict at the December 2015 review that the outcome  of the review 
in another years time would  require Mr and Mrs D to increase their monthly premiums from 
£140.00 to £263.40.
I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs D that the policy became unaffordable  once  they reached 
an advanced age. The aim of the advice they received in 1992 was that the policy should 
remain in place until it became a claim  when Mr and Mrs D died, so the beneficiaries  could 
pay any IHT liability arising at that time.  And, for the monthly premium Mr and Mrs D paid, 
the policy did support  the original level of life cover of £70,000 until it was predicted to 
become a claim. 
But Mr and Mrs D have both exceeded their life expectancy and the policy became 
unsustainable at the original premium  once they entered  their 90s. The adviser could not 
Ref: DRN55939227have foreseen  that in 1992;  neither  could  Canada Life have  been  that precise as to how the 
monthly premium might  have been  affected once  they reached  such  an advanced  age.  
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5593922