K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (NBS) declined to help him obtain a 
refund for a hotel booking he made using his credit  card.
background
Mr M says he made a non-refundable booking for hotel  accommodation  online.  He says he 
later learned  an essential amenity that had been clearly advertised  when he made the 
booking didnt exist.  So, he cancelled the booking and asked NBS to recover the price hed 
paid.
Mr M also says NBS declined to initiate a chargeback request on his behalf  because the 
booking he made  had been advertised as being  non-refundable. And he says its unfair that 
he cant get redress through  NBS in these circumstances,  given that the misrepresentation 
didnt come to light until after the booking had been  made.
So, Mr M says he wants  NBS to offer him a full refund of the credit card payment he made 
for the booking.
NBS says when  it received the required information about the booking and the cancellation 
policy, it was established that it had no grounds to raise a chargeback due to the merchants 
paperwork clearly showing the booking was non-refundable. It says, regrettably the 
merchants terms and conditions prevent  a chargeback being  made  in these  circumstances. 
And it says if it had attempted a chargeback  it wouldve  been  declined, due to the merchants 
paperwork clearly showing it was a non-refundable booking.
NBS also says it accepts  there were  delays in it acknowledging Mr Ms complaint about  this 
matter. So, it says its offered him £50 compensation for this issue.      
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said theres  a wider issue  about 
consumers being  left unprotected in circumstances of this nature.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr Ms made  it clear hes aware  why it wasnt possible to use s75 Consumer Credit Act to 
seek to recover the price hed paid in this situation.  So, Ill say no more about that matter in 
this decision, other  than to record for completeness that the payment must  be made direct to 
the supplier of goods or services for the protection of that legislation to be available to a 
consumer. However, in this case the hotel was booked and the payment made to a third 
party business, rather than directly to the hotel.
Ref: DRN51379182I see when Mr M raised this matter with NBS it rightly considered whether it could initiate a 
chargeback as an alternative  possible  means  of recovering the price hed paid for the hotel 
booking.
I also see the booking  was advertised on the relevant website as being  non-refundable  and I  
see the confirmation Mr M received after hed made the booking highlights  this term by 
stating This  special discounted rate is non refundable. If you choose to change  or cancel 
this booking you will not be refunded any of the payment. 
In these circumstances Im satisfied NBS was right to conclude  that if it had attempted  a 
chargeback as a potential  means  of recovering the price Mr M had paid for the booking it 
wouldve been unsuccessful. This is due to the fact that the chargeback scheme  doesnt  
apply to purchases made on a non-refundable basis. 
Ive sympathy for Mr M in view of this situation. It is, however worth  noting that he has the 
same legal rights as any consumer to seek redress for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services. But, for the reasons Ive explained, he 
doesnt have the right in these circumstances to obtain redress through the provider of the 
finance he used  to make the purchase.
And this means  I cant fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5137918