K821x#15complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the way that her home  contents insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited,  
dealt with her claim for accidental damage.
background
In January 2018 a ceiling in Miss Rs home came down and damage was caused  to objects 
in the room. Ageas appointed a disaster recovery specialist to assess the damage.
The specialist said the ceiling had fallen because it was old, so Ageas wouldnt repair it. 
Ageas also said that as the specialist had found  that the carpet  was damaged  beyond  repair,  
because of the failed  ceiling, it wouldnt replace that either.
The specialist said other objects in the room were stained rather  than having sustained  
damage from the ceiling  collapse. Ageas accepted  this staining may have occurred  as a 
result of Miss R having spilt liquid in surprise  when  the ceiling came  down and said it would 
appoint another  specialist  to assess these items.
Having done so Ageas said it wouldnt repair the coffee table or sofa cushions as Miss R had 
damaged them attempting  to clean  them. It said it wouldnt repair the hi-fi unit as the damage 
to this was likely unrelated to the collapse or spillage. Regarding  damaged curtains it said it 
would consider settling based on the replacement cost for these but only if Miss R could 
show it that they couldnt be restored by cleaning.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas should accept 
the claim in respect  of the damaged  ceiling  because it hadnt, in his view, shown it had 
collapsed due to wear  and tear (age)  (which  is excluded  on the policy). He also felt that any 
objects damaged during the incident  should be accepted by Ageas. Finally  he felt Ageas 
should pay £100 compensation.
Miss R accepted the findings. Ageas disputed them. Consequently the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision  to be made.  I issued  a provisional decision,  the findings  from 
which Ive copied  here in italics:
the ceiling
The disaster recovery specialists probably werent  best placed  to make findings about  the 
ceiling. And their on-site report in this respect  doesnt determine a cause for the collapse.  It 
was only later when  Ageas asked it for a view that it said the ceiling  was old, and Ageas said 
that was the reason for its collapse.
However, the policy Miss R has offers cover  against  accidental damage which is defined as:
Unexpected and unintended damage caused  by a sudden and external force.
There is no doubt that the damage  was unexpected and unintended but the whole definition 
has to be met for a claim for accidental damage  to succeed. Whilst Im not persuaded that 
Ageas looked  particularly  carefully into the cause of the collapse I havent  seen any 
indication or suggestion of any sudden and external force having occurred which might have 
caused the ceiling to collapse.  Rather it seems to have just fallen away and I do understand 
that this type of action can occur with this type of ceiling construction. Therefore, I cant  fairly 
Ref: DRN50736662and reasonably make Ageas repair the ceiling under the claim. Its decline, albeit on unsafe 
reasoning, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I also havent seen that Miss R is 
responsible for repairing the ceiling.
damaged contents  items
Whilst the ceiling wasnt damaged by a sudden and external force,  the contents items  were. 
Either by the ceiling itself or as a result  of spillages that occurred during the incident.  The 
damage all stems from the collapse of the ceiling so Im satisfied its fair to treat it all under 
the one claim.
Sofa cushions  the disaster recovery specialist  said the sofa needed replacing because  the 
cushions were damaged,  not the cushion covers. But the covers  were missing from the sofa 
at that time and I see that later Ageas spoke to Miss R and she said the covers couldnt be 
dry cleaned  so shed  tried to wash them. However, the stains hadnt  come out on a cool 
wash and as she increased the temperature  the covers shrank.  Ideally Miss R would have 
left the covers  for Ageas to assess, but I cant see that Ageas  told her not to take any action. 
And, given  the covers  werent cleaning at low temperatures,  it seems they were damaged 
beyond repair by the collapse/spillage  before Miss R damaged them  further. Im also mindful 
that the expert Ageas appointed to assess the damage didnt mention any of this or have 
any concerns about Miss R having removed the covers for cleaning.  On balance  I think 
Ageas fairly and reasonably needs to accept the part of the claim for the sofa.
Coffee table  the disaster recovery specialists said this was damaged by the ceiling 
collapse and needed French polishing. The wood furniture specialists appointed later by 
Ageas stated damage had been  caused  by Miss R cleaning coffee stains from the table. I 
think the two are different and distinct  but seemingly both types of damage would respond  
to French polishing. Also though, again,  Ive seen no evidence  to show  that Ageas told Miss 
R not to clean anything. And the furniture expert   which  hasnt considered whether the 
report of the coffee spillage damage  is likely or not  has said Miss Rs attempts to clean the 
table would likely have  been unsuccessful.  On balance, I think  Ageas needs to repair the 
table by French polishing as originally recommended.
Hi-fi unit and other wooden furniture   the disaster recovery  specialists  report  refers to three 
items of wooden furniture  that it felt needed  polishing as a result  of the incident. None are 
named but from the photos provided one is clearly the coffee table mentioned  above,  so
I wont  mention this again. Another item appears  to be a partially glass topped,  mahogany 
side table. The third item is indeterminable from the photo  but it is definitely  different and 
distinct from the hi-fi unit that the wooden furniture specialist photographed and assessed. 
The side table and third wooden item werent  assessed, as far as I can see, by the furniture  
specialist. Nor has Ageas  accepted or declined them.  Based  on the original report  and given 
that Ageas had a further chance  to have  these items  assessed but didnt, Im going  to 
require it to have them French polished. As for the hi-fi unit; the furniture  specialist felt this 
had been damaged by a hot, straight  item contacting the wood. Ive seen no expert  evidence  
to counter this, Im satisfied that Ageas  decline in this respect is fair and reasonable.
Carpet  this was damaged beyond repair by the ceiling failing. Ageas needs  to replace it. 
Curtains  Ageas has said it will consider these if Miss R can show  it they couldnt be 
cleaned. I think that it would likely be impossible for Miss R to show that. As I understand it 
she got a verbal  opinion  from the dry cleaner  which saw the damaged curtains before Miss R 
attempted to clean them herself.  Realistically  she isnt going  to be able to get that confirmed 
Ref: DRN50736663in writing. And Ageas could have gone  back later to assess the curtains  once dry but didnt, 
seemingly as a result  of some kind of miscommunication about  the location  of the curtains.
This could  have been handled better by Ageas. I think it now just needs to pay for them to be 
replaced. But Miss R will need to cooperate with it in sorting out replacements   it may be 
that if she has the old curtains  still Ageas can assess them with a view to replacing them 
itself, perhaps through provision of vouchers, or at least determining a suitable cash 
settlement without putting Miss R to too much trouble.
Net curtains  Miss R has said to us recently  that these were damaged as well. Miss R didnt 
tell Ageas this previously. At this late juncture I dont think  it would be fair to either party to 
require Ageas to consider  these further  it wont know any better  than I, at this point, if they 
were or werent damaged  by the ceiling falling, especially as Miss R has said shed tried to 
clean them. Im also mindful that whilst items directly below the ceiling falling would likely 
sustain damage,  Im not convinced that sufficient dust and debris would have affected the 
window area such  as to damage the net curtains (the other  curtain were damaged by coffee 
being spilt). I dont  currently  intend  to make Ageas do anything in this respect.
claim handling
As Ive said above, I think Ageas could have handled this better. And I think  its settlement 
offers and/or claim determinations,  in some respects, have been unreasonable. I dont doubt 
Miss R has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result. Im minded  to require 
Ageas to pay Miss R £150 compensation.
In response Ageas said the policy excludes  any damage resulting  from wear and tear; as the 
ceiling failed  for this reason, any damage caused  by its failure is excluded.  Ageas said it had 
raised various concerns about inconsistencies  in the claim and I didnt  seem  to have taken 
this into account.  Ageas said it couldnt have advised Miss R about cleaning  items as it didnt 
know about the coffee spillage until later and the policy  requires Miss R to take reasonable 
care which it feels she didnt  do. It said it cant explain  every responsibility to a policyholder  
during a claim notification  call. Ageas  said its decisions were based on what  Miss R told it 
and, particularly as there  were inconsistences in that information, it shouldnt  have to pay 
compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of the exclusion  to cover for damage resulting from wear and tear. But this service 
has long held the view that consequential damage  caused suddenly shouldnt  be excluded 
for this reason. To put that in context; if a defective roof lets water in during a period of 
particularly heavy rainfall and damage  is caused, we might  find that the interior  damage 
(though not the roof damage) should be covered under the accidental  damage cover 
(assuming there are no other relevant exclusions),  whereas  if a roof in need of repair lets 
water in consistently over a period  of time,  causing  staining and damage, to the point a 
ceiling collapses,  well be unlikely  to say that should  be covered. 
I was aware that Ageas  felt there  had been inconsistencies. I didnt agree with it. And, in any 
event, Ageas had sought to settle the claim rather than decline it or avoid  it any way in 
respect of the inconsistencies. From what I can see here all that happened  was that Miss R 
gave more details  about what had happened as time went on as the need arose. And 
Ref: DRN50736664according to the loss adjusters she did tell them  when  about the spilt coffee when they 
assessed the damage, it wasnt something that was just created later when some of the 
damage was declined.  
It surprises me that Ageas would try and suggest  that by attempting  to clean items Miss R 
failed to take reasonable care. Im sure that in her mind she was trying  to restore  the items 
the best she could. In any event, what Ageas has missed here is that it hasnt shown Miss R 
noticed a risk, in trying  to clean the items,  and then did nothing to avoid it  which  is what  is 
always required in any argument  regarding taking reasonable care. 
An insurer  cant tell its policyholder about every  term. But where  damage  has occurred  
particularly something  messy like a ceiling falling  down   it seems quite reasonable to me to 
expect an insurer to say something to its policyholder about what  they should/can do in the 
interim between making the call to it and its loss adjuster coming out to assess the damage.  
Ive seen no evidence  Ageas did that here.
Nothing Ageas has said makes  me think it shouldnt have to settle this claim as 
I provisionally set out. Therefore, Im going  to require it to accept the sofa as part of the claim 
making appropriate redress for it, French polish the three wooden items  (not the hi-fi) and 
replace the carpet and curtains (but not the nets). 
Im still satisfied that Ageas response  to this claim wasnt fair and reasonable. It declined 
items it shouldve accepted, it ultimately ignored some items  it had assessed originally and 
found to be in need of repair  and it didnt handle the cushion or curtains issues effectively 
meaning it missed the chance to assess these items.  None of these failures  are mitigated in 
any way by any inability  Miss R may have had in expressing her claim succinctly.  I remain  of 
the view that Miss R was caused distress and inconvenience by Ageas failure to handle  this 
claim fairly and reasonably and that £150  compensation is due as a result.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Accept the sofa as part of the claim and make appropriate redress  in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Arrange to French polish the coffee  table, side table and third wooden  item from the 
disaster recovery  specialists report.
Replace, or pay Miss R to replace, the carpet.
In line with my comments above, replace, or pay Miss R to replace, the curtains.
Pay Miss R £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5073666