K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company (SRIC) unfairly  cancelled  his motor  
insurance policy. He feels that this resulted  in his car being repossessed.  
background
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy  with SRIC  online  through  an intermediary in March 
2018. Mr S says in April 2018, SRIC  cancelled his insurance policy without telling him. Mr S 
car was purchased  under a finance agreement. This agreement required Mr S to keep the 
car insured at all times. As he failed to keep his car insured  in accordance  with the terms of 
the finance agreement,  the car was repossessed by the finance company.
Mr S says due to the cancellation of insurance,  he was unable  to insure his car with another 
provider. Mr S was self-employed and required his car for work. He says he didnt have  
access to any other  car so relied  on hire cars.  He says this left him out of pocket, in debt and 
the stress  of the cancellation has caused  his health to suffer.
SRIC said Mr S had entered several  different occupations when obtaining an online 
quotation including Maintenance Manager,  Administration Assistant  and Painter. SRIC say 
he then proceeded to take out the policy with his occupation recorded as being employed as 
Maintenance Manager with the business  type of Licenced Hotel Industry. They say Mr S 
had done ten searches with three different occupations in the sixty day period prior to taking 
out the policy. 
This triggered their request for confirmation  of his employment. They say Mr S failed to 
provide evidence of his previous employment  and so they issued  a seven day cancellation 
letter. They say he was given  an extension  of time to provide his documentation. When  Mr S 
failed to provide  the documents SRIC said they needed, they cancelled  the motor insurance 
policy. SRIC only charged Mr S for the time he was covered and refunded the remainder  of 
his premium.
Mr S didnt agree with SRIC and said he needed more time to provide the documents they 
asked for. He felt they were responsible for the financial issues he incurred as a result of 
having his insurance cancelled. He said he couldnt afford to insure his car elsewhere  
because the cancellation on his record increased  his insurance premium.  He wants  the 
record of cancellation  to be removed and be refunded  the cost of hire hes incurred while  he 
had no insurance  or car. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She said that SRIC hadnt been  clear 
about what documents they wanted and unfairly cancelled the policy. She said SRIC should 
remove the cancellation, refund any cancellation  charges applied and pay Mr S £750 
compensation.
SRIC didnt  agree with the investigator  so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. I will explain.
Ref: DRN51480642misrepresentation 
SRIC say Mr S deliberately misrepresented his occupation, that is:-
He knew the information provided was untrue or misleading or didnt care whether  it 
was untrue or misleading; and 
He knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to SRIC 
or didnt  care whether or not it was relevant to SRIC.
In order for me to consider whether  Mr S did misrepresent his occupation,  I need  to consider 
what question was asked  of Mr S when  the policy was taken out and whether this was a 
clear question. The questions asked on the screen are:-
1) What is your employment status? 
2) What do you do for a living? (e.g. Teacher, or Sales Assistant) 
3) What type of industry  do you work in?
Im satisfied the questions  asked  of Mr S are clear and do ask him to specify  his occupation 
and employment  status. 
I then need to look at whether Mr S deliberately  misrepresented his occupation. It is Mr S 
responsibility to ensure  the information  he provides  is accurate and he is under a duty to 
take reasonable care in doing  so. It has been difficult  to establish whether Mr S was actually 
still in employment  when he took out the policy or not. So Ive considered  the situation 
surrounding Mr S employment when he took out the policy.  Looking at his employment 
history, I can see that there have been several recent changes in Mr S occupation so this 
could explain the different  searches  done. 
Mr S has said that hes been  running  his own decorating and property maintenance business 
for the last 10 years, but he is also employed  at hotels  and manages  contracts  through  his 
own business to supplement his income. So at any given time he could be employed and still 
working on a self-employed basis alongside  this. His business covers a broad range of work 
so more than one occupation  may have accurately described what  he does. When  taking out 
his policy, on the same screen an information box appears next to question 2 above. It 
says:-
knowing your occupation helps to calculate  your quote more accurately  and can 
make a difference to the price you pay. 
If your job title is not listed by the ABI, try different  alternatives and pick the option 
that best describes your role
Mr S was directed to consider other  available occupations from the drop down options if the 
correct one didnt  appear,  so I think its reasonable for Mr S to have done this.
SRIC say that they would have quoted Mr S a higher premium if he had accurately  declared 
his occupation.  I accept that this would most likely  have been  the case and Mr S would have 
been expected to pay an additional premium for the amended policy  based  on the new 
occupation and employment status.  In April 2018,  Mr S confirmed to SRIC  he is a 
Construction Manager and is self-employed but SRIC never  asked Mr S to pay an additional  
premium. Instead they asked him to verify his new employment  I have considered this 
point in detail  below.
Ref: DRN51480643SRIC said the policy Mr S took out was incepted with Maintenance Manager as his 
occupation. SRIC said based on the occupation being Painter  Construction  Industry,  Mr S 
would have been charged an additional  premium of £122.39. But this search was done in 
January 2018  and this doesnt accurately describe the job he was doing at the time. The 
policy was taken out in March 2018  when he wasnt a Painter, he was a Construction 
Manager but the only option which broadly fit was Maintenance  Manager  so this is the option 
he picked. All the quotations obtained in March  2018 are consistent in his occupation being 
maintenance manager and the Business Category being Hotel-Licensed.  
The fact remains that the occupation  and employment status were incorrect but SRIC 
havent provided me anything that shows me that Mr Ss misrepresentation was anything  
other than careless.  In addition to this I am persuaded by what  Mr S says - that he had 
expected to continue a position being  in employment and that he didnt have any intention  to 
deliberately mislead  SRIC about whether he was in employment or self-employed. And since  
Mr S informed SRIC of the change in employment, he has provided SRIC as much 
information as possible about his current occupation, self-employed  status and co-operated  
in every way he could. So Im not persuaded that this was a deliberate or reckless  attempt  to 
misrepresent his occupation.
cancellation
SRIC cancelled the motor  insurance policy because Mr S hadnt provided documentation  to 
confirm his previous  employment. SRIC  say they asked Mr S for this but Im not satisfied that 
the correct information was ever asked of him. Mr S contacted SRIC numerous times  after 
the policy was taken out as he changed from being employed to self-employed.  Ive looked 
at all the evidence  provided and listened to the call recordings  and Ive not seen anything  
that shows SRIC did ask Mr S to provide proof  of his previous employment. The phone calls 
confirm Mr S was asked to provide tax returns  to confirm  his self-employed status. And the 
documents Mr S provided showed that he was self-employed as this is what SRIC had 
asked for. 
Looking at what was asked of Mr S; I think SRIC  unfairly asked him to provide tax returns 
dated within the last three  months.  This wasnt possible as the tax returns  are usually done  
annually in arrears  so it wasnt reasonable to expect  him to provide this information  
particularly within the timeframe given. He repeatedly  called and told them  he was struggling 
with obtaining  information from HM Revenue and Customs. He offered  to provide them what 
he had in the meantime and asked  for them to confirm whether this would be sufficient  and 
requested that the policy not be cancelled. The customer service  agent told him they would 
let him know. This was the last communication he had with SRIC before cancellation of the 
policy. 
SRIC didnt  contact him about the documentation  he provided. They sent him a message to 
say there  was outstanding documentation - minutes  before cancelling  the policy.  His 
insurance policy was cancelled while he was driving  on the motorway.  I dont think he was 
given the opportunity to correct the situation and I dont think  sufficient notice was given to 
Mr S before cancellation.  Whilst  I accept he was given an extension of time to provide this 
documentation, this extension was insufficient as he needed  an additional two days to 
provide this. 
In any event, it didnt  matter because regardless of the tax returns  being  submitted on time 
or any other  documentation he submitted,  they would have declined it anyway - as it wasnt  
the documentation they needed. As Mr S didnt know he needed to provide confirmation of 
Ref: DRN51480644his previous employment, I think it was unfair  of SRIC to cancel the policy  when they did and 
in the way they did without notice. SRIC should remove any cancellation records  added  and 
refund all cancellation charges. Mr S should only be charged on a pro-rata basis for the time 
he was covered. 
Mr S says the cancellation  of his insurance  has caused him stress and ill health. Mr S has 
detailed the significant impact this has had on him including the difficulties he experienced in 
trying to obtain further insurance whilst working without his own car. Ive considered this 
carefully and I have listened to the phone calls so I know  the efforts Mr S went  to satisfy  
SRIC. I think SRIC  has caused Mr S considerable upset so Ill be telling SRIC to pay him 
£750 compensation as recognition for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
loss of car
Mr S said he was having trouble taking out any other insurance  as the cancellation resulted 
in an increased  premium and a deposit he says he couldnt afford  to pay. He hasnt provided 
me anything  to show this but I think its a reasonable explanation  considering  the insurance 
cancellation and repossession  of the car happened in a short  space of time.  As he had failed 
to insure his vehicle  it was repossessed  in April 2018. He said he had no choice but to rely 
on costly weekly hire cars and has provided  us with invoices for this. I understand Mr S feels 
quite strongly that SRIC are responsible for the loss of his vehicle and the hire expenses  
hes incurred as a result. But Im not persuaded that the loss of his car was entirely due to 
the cancellation of his insurance policy.
Mr S was in financial difficulties and had already had numerous  defaults on his finance 
agreement. Although I accept that Mr S was making  efforts to make payments towards the 
finance, there was still a considerable  balance outstanding. Mr Ss finance company has 
confirmed that while  they can take away the vehicle if its uninsured, they had also sent a 
default notice  at the point  of cancellation  and so the car would have been  repossessed  in 
any event. They also confirmed that the car would have been repossessed when it was 
because of the account arrears regardless of the fact that the insurance had been cancelled.  
Whilst I can see why Mr S may have thought the insurance cancellation was the reason his 
car was taken away, I am satisfied that the cancellation of insurance didnt cause the car to 
be repossessed when it was. So I cant say it was their fault that Mr S needed to rely on a 
hire car and wont be asking SRIC to pay Mr S hire costs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint  against Southern  Rock  Insurance 
Company. Southern Rock Insurance Company must:-
1.Remove any record of cancellation
2.Refund all cancellation charges  and add 8% per year simple interest on the 
cancellation charges he paid, from the date of payment to the settlement date.
3.Pay Mr S £750 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Southern Rock Insurance Company must pay the above within 28 days of the date which  we 
tell them  Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation under the third bullet points from the date of my final decision 
until the date of payment at 8% per year simple.
If Southern Rock Insurance Company consider that they are required by HM Revenue &
Ref: DRN51480645Customs to take off income tax from that interest;  they should tell Mr S how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5148064