K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) unfairly charged him for going 
overdrawn and wasnt sympathetic to his financial difficulties. 
background
This follows on from an earlier complaint by Mr B about Clydesdale  that was considered by 
our service.  Mr B complained that Clydesdale  didnt pay him a £250 account  switching 
bonus. Clydesdale paid Mr B £100  after he complained and, following our services review, 
paid him a further £150 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Mr Bs complaint here is that the delay in receiving  the money from Clydesdale  caused him 
to go overdrawn and incur  fees and charges. He says hes facing financial difficulties and 
has told Clydesdale this - but he says Clydesdale has been unsympathetic  and keeps 
adding more fees and charges every month,  which is making the problem worse.  Hes 
particularly unhappy  because he thinks Clydesdales daily £6 overdrawn charges are 
excessive if hes only over his limit by a small amount. Mr B also complains  that hes had 
trouble accessing  online  banking and cant travel to Scotland  to pay money in at a 
Clydesdale branch so he hasnt been  able to repay his balance. 
Mr B complained to Clydesdale in July and August 2018 and asked it to refund all his 
charges. Clydesdale didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that the charges were applied  in 
line with the terms  and conditions of his account and it didnt agree that they were  excessive.  
Its suggested he consider  switching to another type of account where he couldnt go 
overdrawn and gave  him details of debt management charities that could help.
Mr B wasnt  happy with Clydesdales response  and brought his complaint to our service for 
an independent view. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint because  they thought 
that Clydesdales actions hadnt  led to Mr Bs financial difficulties and the charges were fair 
and reasonable.  Mr B didnt agree with this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered whether Mr B was treated unfairly  when  Clydesdale  charged him during the 
period he was waiting for his money. Mr B will be disappointed  but I dont uphold  this aspect 
of his complaint.  I understand hed expected  to receive the money sooner but I think that 
until hed got confirmation that Clydesdale would pay it, Mr B wouldve known that he would 
need to stay within his agreed overdraft limit or hed risk being charged.  I can see Mr B 
exceeded his agreed limit when other  payments went  out of his account. Because  of this, Im 
not persuaded that the fees and charges on his account were a direct result of the payment  
not being paid when  Mr B expected. 
I have considered the wider question of whether Clydesdale did enough to help Mr B and to 
treat him positively  and sympathetically, considering the financial difficulties hes facing.
Looking at Mr Bs account statements, I can see that his balance was sometimes in credit 
and he usually stayed  within  his £500  overdraft  limit. He also made regular payments from 
this account into third party savings accounts  as well as regular payments towards his 
Ref: DRN50779982borrowing with other lenders.  I dont doubt  that Mr B is facing financial difficulties and that his 
savings are offset by his other debts, but I think that Clydesdale  might not have realised  that 
from the operation  of his accounts.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont find that Clydesdale can 
reasonably be expected  to have known Mr B was struggling. And I can see that when 
Clydesdale sent Mr B details of his interest  and charges each month, it provided details of a 
Current Account Control Account he could switch  to that would stop him going overdrawn to 
reduce his unplanned  fees and charges. These letters also highlighted the costs of 
unplanned borrowing and recommended Mr B contact  Clydesdale  to discuss his overdraft 
limit needed   but I cant see that he contacted the bank to discuss his financial  difficulties  
until he complained  in July 2018.   
Mr B told Clydesdale about his financial difficulties in July and August 2018 when he 
complained about the fees and charges   and after most of the unplanned  fees had already 
been deducted. Clydesdales first response  letter in July 2018 didnt address this point at all 
and it was only in the banks second written response in October 2018 that Mr B was given 
details of its internal  support team and debt management  charities.  I think  Clydesdale  
couldve been more  responsive when Mr B wrote to it  but the monthly fee notification 
letters had given  Mr B information about  the Control Account and the option of discussing his 
overdraft limit and he hadnt  acted on it. Because of this, Im not persuaded that that the July 
2018 final response letter changed  his position. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs complaint that some of his charges were  inappropriate compared 
to his account balance. 
From the date he opened his account  until the 3 December 2018 statement  the period our 
service has investigated  for this complaint  - Mr B paid £84 in planned borrowing charges, 
£171 in unplanned borrowing charges (excluding  a refunded £15 fee), and £47.84  in debit 
interest. 
The planned  borrowing fees are a £6 monthly charge for the £500 arranged  overdraft limit. I 
dont think it was unfair of Clydesdale  to apply these, as Mr B wouldve known about the 
monthly fee from the terms and conditions he accepted when he opened the account with 
the overdraft limit and then used the overdraft.  For the same  reason, I dont consider the 
application of debit interest was inappropriate.  
The unplanned  borrowing charges are one-off costs for going over the £500  overdraft  limit. 
From the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr B was charged correctly according to the account  
terms and conditions. And there were several  occasions when he made transactions on his 
account when  he was already above  his limit, so the £6 daily charge was less than the £15 
unpaid item charges he couldve faced otherwise. And although Clydesdales charges first 
took the account overdrawn in June 2018,  other purchases over that period wouldve taken 
the account over the £500 overdraft  limit anyway - and Im satisfied that Mr B had been 
notified of the charges in advance. So although I understand that Mr Bs unhappy, in these 
particular circumstances  Im not persuaded that it was unfair to apply the charges.  
Its important to explain that we dont usually  look at the levels  of fees charged  by financial 
institutions on current accounts. Thats because the Supreme Court  ruled  that fees like these 
cant be challenged on the grounds  that they are too high, or disproportionate to the 
amounts involved.  Mr B has also drawn our attention to the December 2018 FCA policy 
statement on overdraft charges. But its important to note that this is at consultation  stage 
and any changes the FCA makes are expected  to come  into force in the future   theyre  not 
in place now. In any event, its not my role to decide whether or not the charges and the 
Ref: DRN50779983overdraft tariff are fair. Instead, my role is to look at the circumstances of this particular  
complaint and decide if Clydesdale  acted fairly  when it applied them to Mr Bs account  and 
even though I sympathise with him, based  on the evidence, I think it did.  
Mr B has also complained that he cant pay money  into his account  without  travelling to 
Scotland and hes not been able to get access to internet banking. Because  Mr B wouldve  
known that Clydesdale only has branches  in Scotland when he opened  the account, I dont 
find that the banks at fault for its branch locations.  And I understand from Clydesdale  that 
there are no blocks on his online banking access and he now just needs to re-register for 
internet banking to use it. In the meantime, I dont  think  he needs access  to Clydesdales 
internet banking service  to arrange  a payment into his Clydesdale account to repay his 
overdrawn balance. I understand how frustrating this will have been for Mr B, but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the online banking access problems were  more than routine 
difficulties in setting  up passwords so I dont find Clydesdale at fault for this issue. 
I note Mr B has made some  points about  Clydesdale failing to close  his account. But as 
these are the subject  of a separate complaint with us, I havent looked into this here.  
Taking everything together, although I sympathise with Mr Bs position  I dont find that 
Clydesdale needs  to do anything more in relation  to this particular  complaint.  I encourage   
Mr B to consider contacting the debt management  charities that Clydesdale gave him details 
for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Katy Pillai  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5077998