K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Advanced Payment Solutions Limited,  trading as Cashplus (Cashplus),  
irresponsibly lent to him. Mr B says Cashplus didnt  carry out increasing affordability checks 
and his borrowing  was allowed to get out of control.
background
This complaint is about 65 short-term loans Cashplus  provided  to Mr B between November 
2010 and April 2018. As there were some  breaks between the loans, there are five chains in 
lending:
Chain  one  loans one to 48. The loans were taken between November 2010 and 
March 2013. The amounts borrowed ranged  between £20 to £350 with a maximum 
term of 25 days.
Chain  two  loan 49 taken in May 2014 for £50 and repaid 18 days later.
Chain  three  loans  50 to 54. The loans were taken between  March and December 
2015. The amounts borrowed were between  £20 and £50 with a maximum term of 30 
days. 
Chain  four  loan 50 taken in June 2016  for £50 and repaid 27 days later.  
Chain  five  loans 56 to 65. The amounts  borrowed ranged from £50 to £300  with a 
maximum term of 30 days.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint  and thought  loans five to 48 (chain one) 
and loans 62 to 65 (chain five) shouldnt have been  given,  initially  because proportionate  
checks would have  shown  Mr B was having  problems  managing  his money  and then that he 
was becoming persistently reliant  on short-term loans. 
Cashplus didnt respond to the adjudicator. So as the complaint remains unresolved, it has 
been passed to me for decision  in my role as ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashplus needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashplus should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN55584712the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashplus was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four and loans 49 to 61 
shouldnt be upheld. He thought the adjudicators assessment was fair. Because  of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about  these loans. So, I wont be making  a 
decision about this lending. But the loans were  part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had 
with Cashplus.  So, it is something I will take into account when considering  the other loans 
he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I should first clarify the chains of lending during  the relationship and that I am satisfied there  
were five chains of lending as identified  by the adjudicator. During those  breaks between  the 
lending lending I dont  think it was unreasonable for Cashplus to have concluded  that Mr B 
had overcome whatever  his earlier  financial circumstances were that caused him to take this 
type of lending. A break in a chain of lending in effect, starts the clock ticking again  on what 
we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when  taking into 
account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer. 
As Ive said above,  in the early stages  of a lending relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. Cashplus has told us of its checks it carried out 
before agreeing to the loans with Mr B. These include  taking  into account monthly credit 
reports and any amount of a customers outstanding  debt. There was nothing  in those 
checks to indicate  that the lending was unaffordable for Mr B. 
Chain one 
By loan five if proportionate  checks had been  carried out, I think Cashplus would have seen 
that he also had a loan elsewhere which was showing arrears as well as four other accounts 
Ref: DRN55584713that were in default. So, I think  this was an indication Mr B was having problems managing  
his money and Cashplus should  have  reconsidered whether it should have carried on 
lending to him. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashpluss lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashplus should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashplus should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
At this point Cashplus ought  to have realised Mr B was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had taken out seven loans within  five months. So Cashplus 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr B was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
For the majority of the lending Mr B was provided with a new loan within days or 
weeks of settling  a previous  one and he regularly had more  than one loan running  at 
the same  time. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashplus. Loan 48 was 
taken out 29 months after Mr Bs first. And it was for a much larger  amount.  Mr B had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Cashplus over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Cashplus continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
in chain one onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Chain five
Again, there was an indication in Mr Bs borrowing behaviour that he was becoming 
persistently reliant  on this type of lending.  And I think this was apparent when he took loan 
seven in the chain. It was Mr Bs seventh  loan in five months. The amount borrowed 
increased during  this period and which was made  worse by overlapping loans. When  Mr B 
took loan 62  loan seven  in chain five  loans  60 and 61 were still running,  so rather than 
repay £100 which was borrowed at loan 62, Mr B also had to repay loans 60 and 61 as well 
and which  totalled  £410. 
Ref: DRN55584714I also note that Mr B reborrowed again  quickly two days after he repaid loans 60 to 62 which 
would suggest  Mr B was juggling his finances  and that the borrowing was unsustainable  for 
him. This had happened earlier in the relationship  when Mr B borrowed again the same day 
he had repaid loans 58 and 59. So I think Cashplus should have seen that a pattern was 
emerging and it should have reconsidered lending to Mr B.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans five to 48 in chain one 
and loans 62 to 65 in chain five. and Cashplus should put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5558471