K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold her a 
packaged bank  account, called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
Miss M paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Ms complaint and didnt think  that 
Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. 
Miss M didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Miss Ms case.  Ive looked 
into everything that Miss M and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint 
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
On our questionnaire,  Miss M initially told us that Bank of Scotland sold her the URCA in 
2010. She also said that she had previously held a fee-free account. During our 
investigation, Bank of Scotland  checked  its records which it says agreed with Miss Ms 
recollections about this. More recently, Miss M has told that she thinks that Bank of Scotland 
may have  started  to charge her fees for her bank  account in 2007.  However,  I think its more 
likely that her earlier thoughts and Bank of Scotlands records  are correct  and that she held a 
fee-free account  before Bank of Scotland  sold her the URCA in 2010. 
Miss M has also told us that she bought the URCA at a meeting in one of Bank  of Scotlands 
branches after Bank of Scotland  recommended the account to her. Bank  of Scotland  doesnt  
have much information about this. It has told us that it doesnt know if it sold the URCA to 
Miss M during a meeting,  or over the phone, online or in some other way. 
Given that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Miss M nearly ten years  ago, Im not 
surprised that it doesnt  have full details about  what happened. But in the absence of any 
other information, I accept  Miss Ms account  about Bank of Scotland recommending the 
URCA to her during  a meeting. This meant that that Bank of Scotland should have checked 
that the URCA was a reasonable choice for Miss Ms financial situation, and told her about 
the accounts benefits and costs so she could decide if she wanted it 
Neither party has sent us any detailed notes  or records from the meeting, so I cant tell for 
sure what  Bank of Scotland said, or didnt say, to Miss M; but Ive looked  into what the 
URCA offered and Miss Ms circumstance at the time to see if it was reasonable for Bank of 
Scotland to recommend it to her. 
Ref: DRN55903472In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA included car breakdown  cover, travel insurance, 
mobile phone insurance  and cheaper  overdrafts than Bank of Scotland provided to its 
customers with fee-free  accounts.
In some circumstances,  the savings  on overdrafts for customers  with an URCA compared to 
what they would have paid with a fee-free account could be considerable. At that time, Bank 
of Scotland charged customers with fee-free accounts a daily usage charge for each day 
they over drew their accounts. Customers with URCAs didnt have to pay this charge or any 
interest on overdrafts up to £300. 
Ive looked at some of Bank of Scotlands account records  for Miss M for the period  before 
she switched to the URCA,  and just afterwards. I can see that she quite frequently  overdrew 
her account  by up to £200. So it seems to me that it was reasonable for Bank  of Scotland  to 
recommend that she should switch to the URCA.  Depending  on the way Miss M used her 
account from then on, based on her previous spending pattern, it could have saved her 
money. And I havent seen anything to make  me think  that Bank of Scotland  misled Miss M 
into thinking she had to change to the URCA if she didnt want to. 
In correspondence  with us, Miss M has told us that in 2010 Bank  of Scotland discussed  fees 
with her, but she thought  these were about  the overdraft, not the URCAs monthly fee. I cant  
tell for sure,  but Bank of Scotland may well have discussed the overdraft  usage  charges for 
the fee-free account (which would have appeared on Miss Ms old bank statements as 
Chg Planned O/D fees) , and the monthly  fee for the URCA (which  would  start appearing on 
Miss Ms statements as Ultimate Reward Monthly  Fee). I think  its quite likely that Bank of 
Scotland would  have  mentioned both of these during the meeting. To me this seems a 
reasonable thing for it to have done  when talking about the differences between the two 
types of account.  
Miss M has told us that she didnt  use any of the other potential benefits  that the URCA 
provided and didnt need the insurance  cover.  I accept that she may not have actively used 
these features, but I think its very likely that Bank  of Scotland  told her about them  during the 
meeting. After all, it was trying to sell the URCA to her and it would have been in its own best 
interest to explain what she could get in return for her monthly fee. And packaged bank 
accounts cant usually  be tailored for individual needs, so I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Bank of Scotland to recommend the URCA to Miss M even if she didnt want  or need all 
its potential benefits.  
So, although  I accept  that Bank of Scotland may not have done  everything  right in the way it 
sold the URCA to Miss M, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to recommend the account to 
her, that it told her about  the benefits  and the fees she would have to pay and that it gave  
her a choice.  I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Miss M. 
During our investigation into this complaint,  Miss M has mentioned briefly that on a different  
occasion, she went in to one of Bank of Scotlands  branches to cancel her overdraft (and 
presumably the URCA), but Bank of Scotland told her not to do so in case she lost her job. 
Miss M has not told us much about  this point and I have not covered it in this decision. I 
dont think Miss M has raised  it directly with Bank of Scotland,  but if she wishes,  she is free 
to do so. She may then be able to bring  it to us as a separate complaint, but I cant advise 
her what  to do, or predict the possible outcome. 
Ref: DRN55903473my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5590347