K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that PRA Group (UK) Limited (PRA) acted unfairly  in their pursuit of a
debt it says he owes it.
background
Mr H had considerable debts and found  himself in financial difficulty when he lost his job. He 
says he was struggling to keep up with payments so offered his creditors reduced settlement 
offers. He says one of his creditors didnt accept  the offer he made to settle three  credit  card 
accounts and defaulted these accounts. Mr H says PRA claims it bought these three debts  
from the original creditor  and is pursuing him for them.
Mr H wrote to PRA to let it know about extremely distressing personal circumstances which  
he said had worsened  his financial difficulties. He made further  reduced  settlement offers  
which PRA didnt accept.
Mr H complained to PRA saying its response to what hed disclosed lacked empathy. He 
also complained  about PRA not accepting his offers. He asked PRA to send him the original 
credit agreements for the debts it claimed it had bought as well as a letter of assignment. He 
also wanted to know how much PRA had bought the debts for.
PRA investigated  Mr Hs complaint and agreed that its response lacked empathy. It 
apologised. PRA also agreed  to put Mr Hs account  on hold whilst he waited for the original 
credit agreements.
Mr H complained to us as he was increasingly  unhappy with PRA feeling that it was morally  
wrong for PRA to be profiting  from his debt, especially during such a difficult  time for him.
Our investigator said that PRA hadnt  acted  appropriately when responding to Mr H, but 
wasnt required to accept  reduced settlement offers or write off the debt. Our investigator 
said the apology  from PRA was sufficient to resolve  the complaint. Mr H didnt agree and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr H has raised several issues to do with PRAs handling of his account. However, I think 
his complaint falls into two main categories, which Ill deal with separately.  These  are:
whether PRA has acted positively and sympathetically; and
PRAs response to Mr Hs request for documents.
has PRA acted positively  and sympathetically?
We would  expect businesses to treat consumers positively and sympathetically if theyre in 
financial difficulties. This doesnt  mean we would expect the business to write off debts or 
accept significantly reduced settlement offers  as a matter of course. Sometimes allowing a 
payment holiday,  allowing a reasonable time to repay a debt, accepting  token payments for 
a period of time to allow  a consumer  to meet essential living costs etc is enough.
Ref: DRN53027662In this case, PRA has been accepting token payments of £1 per month on each of Mr Hs 
three debts  for a number of years. It also put the account on hold while  it was waiting for the 
original credit agreements, and didnt actively pursue the debt during this time. In short,  PRA 
acted positively and sympathetically.
PRA accepts that it didnt  acknowledge Mr Hs distressing personal circumstances in its 
response to his reduced settlement offer.  I agree PRAs response lacked empathy. However, 
PRA has apologised  for this which was the right thing to do.
PRAs response to Mr Hs request for documents
PRA accepts that it didnt  send  the correct documentation to Mr H. This is because  it was 
unable to obtain the original credit agreements. However, this doesnt mean that the debt 
doesnt exist or that PRA should write  off the debt as Mr H suggests.  While PRA say the 
debt is unenforceable, this means  it is not enforceable in the courts. It doesnt mean that 
PRA cant pursue the debt, and in this case I dont think its unfair of PRA to do so.
It would have been frustrating for Mr H to receive documents that didnt meet  his initial  
request. However,  Mr Hs account  was on hold whilst PRA tried to obtain these documents.  
During this time and thereafter, PRA has accepted token payments from Mr H. So, I dont 
think not receiving the documents  hed originally asked for caused Mr H any material  
distress and inconvenience. Nor would I have awarded £225 in compensation.
Overall, I think PRA has treated Mr H positively and sympathetically. While  some of PRAs  
responses to Mr H could have been  better,  I think it has generally been  considerate  of his 
financial and personal circumstances. I know Mr H will be disappointed  with my decision, 
especially considering  the difficult circumstances hes been  going through. But I dont think  it 
would be fair to ask PRA to do anything more.
the response to my provisional  decision
PRA didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr H responded and said he didnt agree with my provisional decision. Mr H felt the 
language in my provisional decision didnt fully reflect  the difficulty Mr H and his family are 
going through. As such, he felt I didnt fully understand his personal circumstances. Mr H 
also said that PRA didnt listen to and react to his circumstances with regards to the payment 
of £1 per month, as this was imposed by him. Mr H also reiterated several points that I have 
addressed in my provisional decision.   
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, my decision hasnt 
changed. 
I have reviewed the full file again  and considered Mr Hs comments.   While  the language Ive 
used in my decision  may not be the same  as the language Mr Hs uses  in his complaint, I 
have fully considered the impact the circumstances had on Mr H. And I dont think  it would 
be appropriate for me to go into detail in this case.  
Ref: DRN53027663I accept that PRA may not have offered for Mr H to pay £1 per month on his debt, but I still 
think that it acted positively and sympathetically towards Mr H by accepting this as an 
ongoing arrangement.  I havent seen anything from Mr H or PRA that would change my 
decision in this case. Overall, I dont  think it would be fair for me to ask PRA to do anything  
more.
my final decisions
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im not going to ask PRA Group (UK) 
Limited to do more than it already has. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5302766