K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about that Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC unfairly registered a default  on his 
credit file and closed his account.
background
Mr L says he got into financial problems at the end on 2018 and contacted  Tesco about his 
credit card debt. He says he agreed a four month plan with Tesco  but accepts due to family  
problems didnt contact  Tesco  at the end of the agreement. Mr L says he didnt receive  the 
default letters Tesco said it sent him and contacted  Tesco and agreed a months breathing 
space. He says no mention  was made  that the account had been closed and says the 
default has stopped him taking out a loan to repay the debt.
Tesco doesnt accept  making a mistake  and says it agreed a short term four month plan with 
Mr L but told him to contact it before it ended.  It says it wrote to Mr L and sent him his 
account statement  which showed the full debt being  due. Tesco says it then closed the 
account and registered the default.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt think Tesco had made  a mistake 
or acted  unfairly.  The investigator thought Tesco had told Mr L to contact it before the 
agreement ended. But he hadnt  and Tesco  then correctly sent the default letters  and closed 
the account. The investigator also thought Mr L should reasonably have been aware that the 
debt was due as he was also sent account statements. And that Tesco had acted positively 
and sympathetically  by agreeing the plan and allowing a months grace  period.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and would like the default removed from his credit  file and 
given an opportunity to sort matters out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr L will be disappointed by 
my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that Tesco and Mr L agreed a short term four month plan 
towards the end of 2018 and that Mr L should have  contacted Tesco towards the end of that 
plan. Im satisfied Mr L didnt contact Tesco but I appreciate that at that time Mr L was 
dealing with family difficulties. Im also satisfied that Tesco  wrote  a number of letters to Mr L 
which I think were  correctly addressed  that told Mr L about the possibility  of a default being  
registered and his account closing.  I also appreciate  Mr L says he didnt receive  some  of 
those letters but I think he should  reasonable have been aware  that the agreement had 
ended and that he should have spoken to Tesco. I also think that he received monthly 
account statements  and should reasonably have noticed that Tesco was asking him for the 
full amount.
Overall Im satisfied that Tesco hasnt  made  a mistake and has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions by closing the account  and registering a default. I m also satisfied that 
Tesco has a duty to report an accurate account position to the Credit  Reference Agencies.  
Bank and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied Tesco has acted in such a way here by agreeing  the plan in the 
Ref: DRN56741932first place and by allowing Mr L a breathing space of a month.  I dont think  Tesco  could have 
done much  more at that stage as the account  had already been  closed.
As I dont think Tesco made  a mistake or acted unfairly I cant reasonably  ask it to remove  
the default or do anything else in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5674193