K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs C bought the policy in 2005 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mrs C applied for her credit card and PPI policy. 
At the time,  Mrs C was self-employed as an accountant. She has told us she was not entitled 
to any sick pay but did have other means in the form of savings for repaying  her credit card 
should she be unable  to work.   Mrs C told us she had suffered from back problems in 2000 
and depression in 2004.  
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Cs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in March 2008.
Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Cs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mrs C about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs C and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN57995672Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in March  2008. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
This sale took place  in November 2005 after the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So, the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider that they still represent a helpful  guide to good industry practice. 
As a result, it is appropriate for me to take them into account along with the relevant ICOB 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN57995673The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so HSBC was required to take into account  the evidential provisions in DISP App 3 
when considering Mrs Cs complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN57995674HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mrs C has told us she wasnt 
aware of the PPI.
Neither party has been able to confirm  how this policy was sold. I dont find this surprising 
given the length of time since the sale and the credit  card account  itself closed in 2008.  But 
HSBC has been  able to provide us with copies of credit agreements from all the sales  
channels (phone,  postal,  internet etc) at the time of the sale. I accept that Mrs C would have 
seen and completed the same or similar.  And all of the samples agreements/sales 
processes weve  been  given  make  clear that the PPI was optional  either by completing  the 
relevant part of the application form, ticking a box or signing separately to take the PPI. I 
dont think PPI would have been added  to the account unless  Mrs C had given her consent 
to take it, so I think its most likely  she did complete the relevant part of the credit agreement  
in order to take the policy.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs C knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mrs C has said this was an advised sale. But she hasnt been able to give us any further  
recollection than that, including  how the policy was sold to her. But Im not persuaded that 
HSBC provided advice. Generally, my experience of these sales is that no advice was given, 
and Ive seen  no paperwork  or records which make me think otherwise. 
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs C. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs C to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
HSBC has provided  us with samples  of all application forms it was using at the time of the 
sale and these show that its likely that PPI would  have  been selected in order for the PPI to 
have been added to the account. It has also provided us with a copy of the paperwork it says 
Mrs C wouldve received,  including the policy terms and conditions   which I accept on a 
balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Cs. 
Looking at the sample documentation and policy terms and conditions provided  to Mrs C at 
the time,  I dont think HSBC gave Mrs C the information she fairly and reasonably  needed to 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take out the policy.  
As we cant  be sure how the policy was sold, I dont know what  HSBC  told Mrs C about the 
PPI, but I think its unlikely she would have agreed to take it out without at least  having a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mrs C would  have thought it was free.
But it was HSBCs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Cs attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Ref: DRN57995675I dont think its likely  HSBC did enough to do this. For example,  I dont  think its likely the 
true cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs C, including the need to maintain premiums 
during a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely HSBC 
adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.
So, I dont think HSBC  gave Mrs C sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs C has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs C. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Mrs C says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs C had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN57995676As Ive found above, Mrs C chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs C thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs C ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a proportion of her outstanding balance. 
But I accept that HSBC didnt make  clear the on-going  cost information. So, while  Mrs C 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim wasnt  
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical conditions  or symptoms that     
Mrs C knew about  or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy or 
which she had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  about during the 12 months before 
the start date of the policy and which recurred  within during the first 12 months; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs C be unable  to 
do her own work  or any work  which her ability, education or training reasonably  
qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs C from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs C was self-employed  when  the PPI was 
taken out, it wouldnt  have been any harder  for her to make a claim if she became 
unemployed than someone who was permanently employed. And although Mrs C says she 
had medical conditions some time before the policy was taken out  depression in 2000 for 
which she received  treatment and had the occasional day off from work and the back pain in 
2004 which was treated  by physiotherapy and painkillers but Mrs C didnt have  any time off 
from work  I dont think better information about this exclusion would  have put her off 
agreeing to it. I say this because the depression was several years before the policy  was 
taken and Mrs C didnt  tell us of any reoccurrence and the back  pain hadnt caused  Mrs C to 
take any time off from work, and again, she hadnt told us of any reoccurrence.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN57995677And the policy didnt  exclude back or mental  health conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs C 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mrs C had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her work 
or any other  work which in the insurers  view she might reasonably  be qualified for, it might  
have played into her thinking  about  what she would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs C was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation 
the chances that she would be able to take up another occupation  would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs C would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her savings.  And in those circumstances, I consider it more 
likely than not that she would have taken  out the policy in any event.   
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs C wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs C 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN57995678That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she wouldnt have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mrs C compensation, as that would  put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done.
Im also aware that Mrs C thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mrs C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2005 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs C and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5799567