K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim under his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs car caught fire and was declared a total loss (or write-off)  as a result. UKI eventually 
agreed to pay £5,710  as a fair reflection of the market value and then disposed of the car 
without telling Mr B. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with the amount  UKI paid as he thought it wasnt  enough to buy a like for 
like replacement. And he complained that the disposal of his car prevented  him from 
recovering losses from a third party. The background to this was that Mr B said he had had 
his car recently serviced at garage  and a smell of diesel investigated. The car apparently  
went back to the garage because  of the diesel smell  and two days later the car caught fire.
Mr B wanted  an investigation  into the cause of fire to see whether anything was recoverable 
against the garage. He also thought he should get a like for like hire car and the cost of the 
work hed paid the garage. But UKI said he wasnt entitled to either.
UKI accepted that it disposed of the car without Mr Bs permission but any investigation into 
the cause of fire wouldnt have been  guaranteed  in his favour. UKI referred the matter to an 
engineer but he noted that the car was burnt  out and so likely the cause couldnt be 
determined. But UKI paid Mr B £500 compensation for the disposal and £250 for personal  
items in the car.
Our investigator didnt  think UKI needed to do anything further. He explained, in summary,  
that;
UKI 
oshould have  asked Mr B before disposing of the car
ooffered £500  compensation  which was fair
oacted fairly in marking the claim as fault
odidnt need  to pay the repair costs  Mr B had incurred and most was to do with 
normal maintenance 
ohad offered a fair market value
Mr B 
olost the opportunity of having  the car examined  
Mr B disagreed with the investigator, in summary  he said;
UKI valued his car in fair condition when it was in excellent condition
The car value  wasnt enough
A forensic investigator  said that on the balance of probability  the garage  was at fault 
for the fire and others have said the outcome is almost guaranteed
UKI didnt carry out a proper investigation
UKI breached its own policy by destroying  the car without permission
He cant now claim back his uninsured losses and he has a fault  claim registered 
against him
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
Ref: DRN59147242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy makes clear  that the maximum amount  UKI will pay is the cost of replacing the 
vehicle up to its market  value and defines this as the cost of replacing  your car with another  
of the same  make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the loss. This 
is an industry wide approach and Im satisfied its fair.
Assessing the value  of a used vehicle  isnt an exact science and we generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive. The guides are based  on extensive 
nationwide research  of likely (but not actual) selling prices, and use advertised prices and 
auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been. 
Having considered the guides the range of values is between £4,924 and £6,315.  UKI 
considered a fair market value to be £5,710 which included a small deduction because of the 
mileage of Mr Bs car. In the circumstances  Im satisfied that UKIs offer is a fair reflection of 
the vehicles market value. I have taken  into account  Mr Bs disagreement and that he cant  
apparently source  a similar vehicle near where he lives for the amount UKI has paid. But I 
am persuaded by the trade guides return on that range of market  value  and that UKI has 
paid a fair amount. The fact he had servicing  and repairs carried  out shortly  before the fire 
doesnt, in my view,  lead to an uplift in the cars  value. What  he had carried out was routine 
works for safety and compliance with relevant regulations about  keeping a car on a road.
Like all car insurance policies Mr Bs says if a claim is made  against his policy  UKI may 
reduce the no claim discount. The language  used  in the industry is that of fault  and non 
fault, and its not always  helpful. The reality is that the term fault  means that UKI is paying 
out money in relation to a claim  that it hasnt  recovered. And thats what  has happened in 
Mr Bs case. So I am satisfied that its fair the claim impacts his policy under the fault  
descriptor. 
The disposal  of Mr Bs car is a source of frustration for Mr B; he has lost the opportunity to 
have a forensic fire examiner look at his car and try to determine the cause  of the fire. This 
may have  led to a possible  legal action  against  the garage that serviced and repaired Mr Bs 
car if there was sufficient  evidence of negligence. However, I have taken into account the 
pictures of Mr Bs car which show the engine compartment and front end of the car 
destroyed by fire. 
UKIs own engineer  was of the view that the cause of the fire was unlikely to be determined 
or linked to the garage because of the extent of damage. Im satisfied this was a decision the 
engineer was entitled to reach.  It would  have been  preferable that UKI link in with Mr B more  
fully about the disposal  in advance, so he could  decide whether  to spend the money on a 
forensic engineer  to carry out a report.  But even if the report linked the cause to the garage 
UKI was not under  a duty to pursue it. That would have been  Mr Bs responsibility.  In all the 
circumstances Im satisfied UKIs  compensation of £500 is a fair amount for the loss of 
opportunity, particularly given the cause may not have been established and even if it was, 
this may not have  led to litigation that Mr B may have succeeded  with.
Ref: DRN59147243Mr B was provided with a replacement car for a short period. It wasnt the same as his car 
but the policy doesnt need to provide this. It says it gives guaranteed  hire car cover, which  is 
for a small hatchback  car or similar intended to keep the Mr B mobile for a defined  period. 
And the policy says it may not be the same as the insured vehicle. 
UKI has paid the policy limit of £250  for personal  belongings  and so Im satisfied it doesnt 
need to pay more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as the payments U K Insurance Limited  has paid in relation to 
Mr Bs car fire claim are in line with the policy and the compensation fairly reflects the lost 
opportunity.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5914724