K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company which Ill also call the company, has complained it shouldnt be 
treated as bound by a commercial contract  that Experian Limited  says it entered into with the 
company in March  2019. 
background
The company, which  runs a business and is a small company,  has two directors whom Ill 
call Mrs R and Mr R. The company had a prior, undisputed contract  with Experian which was 
due to expire at the end of March  2019. Around mid-March 2019  Experian phoned the 
company and spoke  to Mr R. Experian claims that as a result of that conversation a new 
contract was agreed between itself and the company. 
The company has challenged the validity of the contract, on these principal grounds:
Mrs R, not Mr R, was, as Experian  knew, the companys point of contact. Experian 
should have spoken  with Mrs R about a new contract,  not with Mr R.
Experian should have  written to the company with any proposal for a new contract  as it 
had done before,  not have done  it over the phone. This would have allowed the 
company to consider the terms  of the proposed new contract, and it would have resulted 
in the company  saying no to it. 
The terms of the contract  werent  clear or agreed in the phone  call, including in 
particular the price.
Mr R hadnt realised  during  the phone call he was supposedly agreeing to a new contract.
Experian didnt make  it clear  in the phone call there was no cooling-off  period.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the companys complaint. He noted Experian  hadnt been able 
to produce a recording of the phone call. But he concluded Experians contact notes were 
sufficient evidence of the formation of the new contract. He said that Mr R, as a director  of 
the company,  was authorised to enter  into the contract on the companys behalf. 
The investigator also said (a) the contract didnt contain a cooling-off period and there was 
no need in the phone  call for Experian to refer to the lack of one and (b) the Consumer 
Credit Act wasnt relevant as A was a limited  company, not an individual. 
The company didnt accept the investigators  conclusions. It wanted to stress  its argument 
wasnt that it should be excused  from performing the contract, but that it hadnt  entered into a 
binding contract in the first place. The company also said it would  set a dangerous precedent if 
the ombudsman  service allowed Experian and similar  companies  to enforce alleged  contracts  
when the main evidence to justify such enforcement   the phone  recording  was absent.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the company  but I 
too havent upheld its complaint.
We decide each  complaint  on its own merits, and we do so on the basis of the available  
evidence. Where we need  to make findings  of fact, we use the same standard as a civil court 
would use, namely  what we think  is more  likely  than not to have happened (on the balance 
of probabilities)  in all the circumstances of the case. 
Ref: DRN54390612A director of a company is on the face of it  by which I mean unless the company  has 
expressly contradicted  it beforehand in a specific case  or generally  authorised to act on 
behalf of the company. Limited companies  are inanimate, they can only act via human  
agents. Ive seen no evidence that A told Experian Mr R wasnt authorised to speak or act for 
the company.  The fact that Experian  was accustomed  to receive instructions from Mrs R 
doesnt mean it should have assumed Mr R had no authority. 
Contracts of the kind between Experian and the company dont have  to be agreed  in writing. 
They can be agreed  orally  and are no less binding for being so. The fact that a contract has 
previously been  agreed  in writing doesnt  mean a similar contract cant  in future  be agreed 
by word of mouth.
The contract is one between commercial businesses. The law didnt require there to be a 
cooling-off period,  and indeed there  hadnt  been one when the company entered into the 
previous contract  with Experian. There was no reason for the company to think  there  would 
be a cooling-off period  for the new contract.
The fact that the phone call took place is undisputed  its not as if theres any suggestion 
Experian is saying  the call took place  when it didnt. So the crucial question  for me to decide  
is what I think happened in that phone call.
The circumstances were  that the existing contract was due to expire soon. After the call took 
place, Experian  had formed the clear  impression a new contract had been agreed. Its 
records show that, and it wrote to the company in those terms. The company accepts that 
the call took place and that Mr R spoke  to the Experian representative. In all the 
circumstances, I think  its more likely than not  indeed very likely - that a new contract was 
agreed between  Experian and Mr R, and therefore  the company, during the call. I also think 
it likely  the principal terms of the new contract were agreed, including  the price.
my final decision
I dont uphold the companys complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5439061