K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains about how much Eldon Insurance Services Limited   trading as Go Skippy  
(Eldon) - is charging him for cancelling his car insurance policy.
background 
Mr I took out an insurance policy on 12 December 2018 through Eldon  a broker - after 
going on a price comparison website. On 17 December 2018, Eldon  asked  Mr I for additional 
information to prove  his and the additional drivers  details, at the request of the underwriter.  
Mr I sent some of this information  on 18 December, but it wasnt  enough. Eldon told Mr I this 
on 19 December.
On 24 December 2012 Mr I sent the additional information. Eldon didnt respond until 27 
December and explained that it still required more information as it hadnt  received the 
licence summary for Mr I and the named driver. When Eldon  considered  the licence copies 
that Mr I sent, it noticed a discrepancy from the information Mr I gave  at the point  of sale.  So, 
it had to amend  the policy quote. Mr I was unhappy  with the increased premium and 
cancelled the policy on the same day (27 December 2018). He pointed  out he believed  he 
was in his cooling  off period and wished to cancel  without  any charge.
Eldon confirmed cancellation some  days later and explained that Mr Is cooling off period 
ended on 26 December  2018, so it would apply the charges in line with his agreement. It 
then asked Mr I for around £163 in fees and charges.
Mr I complained. He explained  that he didnt cause any delays, and that he input as accurate 
information as he was able to when  he applied for the policy.  He explained that the 
discrepancy was due to the comparison website not allowing  him to input months   just 
years when looking at how long he and the additional driver had held a full licence. Mr I also 
explained that he only cancelled because Eldon increased his premium, he shouldnt be 
penalised that it did this outside  of the cooling off period.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that Mr I had the opportunity  to 
show how long both he and the additional driver had held their licences for. And he 
explained that it was Mr I that didnt send all the relevant information Eldon requested that 
led to the delay in telling  him the premium had changed. The investigator  said that as Mr I 
cancelled the policy outside of the cooling off period, Eldon was entitled to charge him the 
amount in line with his terms.
Mr I disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Since Ive 
had the complaint, Eldon has agreed  to apply the terms  as if Mr I had cancelled  his policy 
within the 14-day  cooling  off period.  This was because there  were  two bank holidays within 
the period (including the final day) and its offices  werent open on those days.  Had it been, 
then its likely Mr I wouldve  been inside his cooling  off period when he cancelled.  This did 
still attract a charge but Mr I has paid more than this charge so Eldon has agreed  to refund 
the difference.
Mr I has made further comments that he doesnt  believe he should have to pay anything  for 
the cancellation and so wouldnt accept  any offer unless it was a complete waiver  of 
charges. Ive considered this before making this decision.
Ref: DRN52507482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the recent  offer by 
Eldon is fair. Ill explain why.
Its common for underwriters of insurance policies to ask for evidence when a policy  is put in 
place, this is to ensure  that the premium it has charged for the cover is correct.  I can see 
Eldon, on behalf  of the underwriter, asked for this information in good time and told Mr I what  
it needed (licence summaries for both drivers and proof of no claims  discount).  It was Mr I 
that didnt send the correct information.
It's important  to recognise that Eldon is an insurance broker. So, any increase in premium  
isnt something it is responsible for. It is the underwriter of the policy that determines  what 
information is needed from Mr I and what the premium would be. So, Ive not considered 
whether it was reasonable for Eldon to ask for the information, or whether any premium  
increase was right. Ive looked  at the actions  of Eldon, which is whether it communicated this 
information to Mr I correctly, and whether it applied the terms when he chose to cancel his 
policy.
Mr I sent in two different  proof of no claims discount (from different dates showing different 
lengths) and he only sent in a copy of his photocard  licence. This isnt what  the underwriter 
requested  it then informed Mr I what it needed  again. After Mr I sent in copies of his and 
the additional drivers  photocards, Eldon explained again that the underwriter needed the 
licence summaries, and it explained to Mr I how he could get these.  But it also explained that 
the licence cards that Mr I sent showed  that he, and the additional driver,  hadnt held their 
licences for as long as the application  said.  The underwriter then informed Eldon that this 
generated an additional premium. At this point, I cant see that Eldon had made  an error. It 
had responded  to Mr I each time to explain what information the underwriter needed,  and it 
explained why the underwriter was asking for an additional  premium.
Mr I cancelled the policy as soon as he was made aware there would be an additional 
premium due. He requested there  be no charge as he was within his cooling off period. I can 
see that he wasnt in this period, he cancelled his policy on 27 December, and the cooling  off 
period ended on 26 December. But Eldon was closed on 26 December as it was a bank 
holiday. Mr I sent his information  on 24 December,  and if it wasnt a bank holiday, I think  
Eldon wouldve replied on either 25 or 26 December. This means  that Mr I wouldve 
cancelled his policy within the 14-day cooling off period. Eldon has agreed it would be fair 
and reasonable to apply  the terms in line with Mr I cancelling in the cooling off period. These  
are as follows:
Ref: DRN52507483Within the 14 day cooling off period
If you're a consumer  buying or renewing a policy which provides cover  for you in a private 
capacity, you have  the right to cancel your policy during a period of 14 days  either from the 
day of purchase of the contract, or the day on which you receive your policy documentation; 
whichever is the later.  If you exercise  this right and the cover has not yet commenced, you'll 
be entitled to a full refund of the premium paid less a £35 charge. If the insurance has 
commenced and provided that you have not made a claim or a claim has not been made 
against you, we will return to you the amount that you have  paid us, after deducting:
 A pro rata deduction of the total premium for the time that you have been on cover, unless 
your policy is
underwritten by an insurer where  short period cancellation rates apply.
 A pro rata deduction of our broker arrangement fee.
 A £35 cancellation charge as set out in the 'Policy and Administration  charges' section of 
this document
 Where applicable, the Direct Debit arrangement fee will be refunded  less a £5 charge.
 If a discount was applied  when  you took your policy out, this discount will be deductible 
from any return
premium due on a pro-rata basis
Eldon has since confirmed that the charges amount to less than Mr I had paid, and so a 
refund of £36.87 is due. It sent the calculations to show  that Mr I has paid a total of £89.69. It 
is charging him £52.82 in total made  up of the following:
-Interest                             = £22.34
-Time on Cover                      = £13.21
-Broker fee                         = £2.27
-Finance fee                       = £5.00
-Credit arrangement fee        = £10.00
I think this is fair. I understand that Mr I doesnt  want to pay any cancellation fees, but the 
terms that he agreed to when he took out the policy state that a charge will apply. And I think 
the offer Eldon has made mean  Mr I is better off than if it applied those full terms as I can 
see it hasnt applied the £35 cancellation fee. I think Eldon has acted fairly by agreeing to 
apply the cooling  off period due to the bank holidays, and I think  the above  calculation and 
offer is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So, I wont be asking  it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer Eldon Insurance Services Ltd has made a fair and reasonable 
offer. It must now refund Mr I £36.87.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5250748