K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1998. Mr F says Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr F says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr Fs application  form for the mortgage. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Mr F to sign if he wanted to take it out. And Mr F has signed 
in the space. Halifax has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form, which  sets 
out the cost and benefit of the PPI and was signed by Mr F.
Based on this, I think Halifax did make it clear  to Mr F that he had a choice about  the PPI. 
And that Mr F chose  to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Mr F has said that selling  the PPI alongside other compulsory  insurance products, such as 
buildings insurance,  undermines that the PPI was optional. But I think the PPI section of the 
mortgage application is clearly separate to the buildings  insurance  section. And I think the 
PPI section makes it clear that the PPI is optional, regardless of whether any other insurance 
is also optional or not. So I still think Halifax made it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about 
the PPI.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr F, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve 
received full sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for him, Halifax had to give Mr F clear information about  the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave him wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mr Fs property couldve been at risk if he 
failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the policy offered 
appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would 
have been useful for Mr F if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr F off taking it out.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
Ref: DRN52745472But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  before Mr F took out a further advance. It has now 
agreed to pay back any commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium after Mr F took out a further advance - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5274547