K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Co-operative  Bank  p.l.c. has treated them unfairly. 
In particular they say it unfairly refused to extend the term of their mortgage. They also say it 
told them  that their mortgage  was open ended.
Mr and Mrs C want The Co-operative to cover the costs they incurred when they 
re-mortgaged with another lender.  They also want compensation for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused them.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs C took out a five year interest only mortgage with The Co-operative. 
In 2011, the loan was extended  to November  2016. In early  2016 Mr and Mrs C requested a 
further two year extension  to the mortgage term. The mortgage term wasnt extended,  but 
The Co-operative allowed Mr and Mrs C to continue making interest  only payments after the 
mortgage term had expired.  It did not take action to recover the mortgage debt until 2018.
Mr and Mrs C were dealing with difficult personal circumstances. They  made the 
Co-operative aware of their situation in early 2018 and asked for a further informal  extension 
until early 2019. They  said they intended  to put the property on the market in early  2019.
The Co-operative wasnt willing to extend  the mortgage term any further. Mr and Mrs C say 
that as it was taking  legal action to recover the mortgage debt they were forced to 
re-mortgage with another  lender. 
The Co-operative said it didnt think that it had treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly.  It said it had 
reminded them regularly that the mortgage needed to be repaid at the end of the term. And 
Mr and Mrs C had said they would  be able to do so.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and asked this service to look into their complaint. Our 
investigator considered  the matter. Having done so, she said she didnt think  The 
Co-operative had treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly. 
In particular she noted that it had extended  the term of the mortgage  for a further five years 
in 2011. In 2016 it asked  for more  information about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances when 
they requested  a further extension. Despite the information not being provided it allowed 
Mr and Mrs C to continue with their interest  only mortgage until 2018 when it began 
proceedings to ensure the mortgage  was repaid. 
She said that, based on the information  she had seen she felt Mr and Mrs C had been given 
sufficient time to make arrangements  to repay  the mortgage.
With regard to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that The Co-operative had led them  to believe that 
the mortgage was open ended; she said she appreciated that there  may have been  some 
confusion on this point.  But she noted  that The Co-operative had been in contact with 
Mr and Mrs C on a number of occasions  to discuss repayment of the mortgage. As this was the 
case she said she didnt think it had led them to think  that the mortgage term was open  ended.
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied with our investigators view. They said that they didnt  think 
the Co-operative  had treated them fairly  and asked for their complaint to be determined  by 
an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN51161712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Cs position. I appreciate that they feel The Co-operative  
should have allowed them to extend  the term of their mortgage. 
But I must also take into account  that The Co-operative has said that from 2014 onwards  it 
stopped offering interest only mortgages. So when the first extension  (to 2016) was nearing 
an end it explained  that they would need to meet an adviser and provide information about 
their circumstances if they wanted to extend the term any further. It appears that Mr and 
Mrs C decided not to go ahead  with this meeting. As they didnt provide the information The 
Co-operative required, I dont think it treated them unfairly by not formally extending  the term 
of their mortgage.
After the mortgage  term ended  in 2016  The Co-operative continued to accept  interest only 
payments towards  the mortgage. But I dont  think this meant it had agreed that Mr and 
Mrs Cs interest  only mortgage could continue indefinitely. 
I accept that The Co-operative may have  caused confusion during a telephone call in 2015  
about whether  the mortgage  was open ended. But I think  the letters Mr and Mrs C received 
from The Co-operative, before and after this phone  call, made  clear  that the mortgage 
needed to be repaid  at the end of the term. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs C could reasonably  
have thought that it had agreed  to the mortgage  continuing  indefinitely.
I note that in 2018, when  The Co-operative began action seeking  repayment of the mortgage 
Mr and Mrs C asked for an informal term extension.  They  explained that due to difficult 
personal circumstances they didnt want to put the property on the market  immediately and 
were not in a position to repay the mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C were dealing  with difficult personal circumstances at the time.  
But I must take into account that they had previously told The Co-operative  that they had 
sufficient savings to repay  the mortgage at the end of the term. Likewise it does not appear  that 
they had responded to any of the letters The Co-operative sent over the term of their mortgage 
asking them to get in touch if they thought they would not be able to repay the mortgage.
I must also take in to account that Mr and Mrs C had already benefited from an informal two 
year extension from the end of the mortgage  term in 2016.
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think The Co-operative treated them unfairly 
when it refused to allow them to extend their mortgage term any further.
Ref: DRN51161713my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5116171