K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Mr S took out PPI on his existing held credit card account  hed had an account for 
about three years. The sale happened by phone.
The policy was designed to protect  Mr S card payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment  (business failure  if self-employed.)
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was self-employed and had been so for three  years.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said that they thought 
Mr S was likely self-employed at the time. And given the policy severely limited self-
employed persons  in terms  of their ability to make  an unemployment claim  and because  
they didnt think  this was clearly  brought to Mr S attention  in the phone call  they thought it 
unlikely Mr S wouldve  still taken  out the policy had things happened  as they should have.
Because Capital  One disagrees   it says its not had proof  Mr S was self-employed  at the 
time  the complaint comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. My reasoning  is set out below.
Mr S has told us he was self-employed at the time of the sale of PPI. And looking at the 
terms of the policy, the steps a self-employed person would have to take to make  a 
successful claim  on it were onerous and more  complicated than that for employed persons   
a self-employed  person would  have  to demonstrate business failure. And I dont think  this is 
in dispute.
I think this was a significant limit on the cover, which shouldve been  clearly brought to Mr S 
attention and in a timely manner so he could make an informed decision about the cover.  
But Im not persuaded Capital One did do that. Capital One hasnt got a recording of the 
sales phone  call. But looking at the call script  its provided, it appears that Mr S would 
already have been asked  whether  he wanted to go ahead with the cover  before Capital One 
made any mention  of any significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And even then, its 
not clear from the script that the representative wouldve specifically told Mr S about the 
limitation of cover for the self-employed claiming  unemployment benefit.
Ref: DRN55011372So Im not persuaded things happened  as they should have  I dont think Mr S was properly 
informed.
Has Mr S lost out as a result?
I can see that Capital  One says it hasnt had proof from Mr S that he was self-employed.  But 
ours is a fair and reasonable jurisdiction  - Mr S doesnt  have to prove  he was self-employed  
at the time. I have  to be persuaded that more likely  than not he was based on the evidence  
available.
Mr S has told us he was self-employed and he said he had been for three years. And as a 
starting point, Ive not been given a reason  to doubt what  he says. I can see the last record  
Capital One has about Mr S employment  is from his credit card application  in 2004, which  
records that he was employed. But this was more than three years before he took out the 
PPI. And Mr S says he left this job in that year to become self-employed.
Mr S has provided some  subcontractor remittance advice slips from around  the time of the 
sale in support of his employment status  at the time. Capital One says these arent sufficient  
proof  it says that while it does state  he was a subcontractor, this does  not mean that he 
wasnt employed by another company.
But looking  at these  I think  they support Mr S being self-employed   they show  payment to 
him personally from a business whose activity would  fit with the job type Mr S says he was 
doing. And as a subcontractor in the profession  he says he was in, I think more  likely than 
not he was self-employed as he says. So while I accept what Capital One says is possible, 
of the two possibilities I think Mr S was most  likely self-employed.
In light of my finding about Mr S employment  status  I think Mr S has lost out as a result of 
having PPI on his credit card. I say this because Im not persuaded that in weighing up the 
usefulness of the cover to him in his circumstances, he would  most  likely have still gone 
ahead and taken  it out had the limitation  of cover been clearly  and fairly  brought to his 
attention at the time. 
Ref: DRN55011373what Capital  One needs to do to put things right
Capital One should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. I understand the policy has already been  cancelled so:
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr S owes  and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
I also understand Capital One has made  a payment  to Mr S in relation to high 
commission and profit share, so it can take off this amount from the amount it owes  him.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve  owed  Capital One something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
C.Capital One should tell Mr S what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, so Capital One (Europe) plc 
should pay Mr S compensation in line with the steps  set out above.  I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5501137