K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the interest rate on a hire purchase agreement brokered  by 
Cambria Automobiles (South East)  Limited (Cambria). He says he believes Cambria  
couldve given him a lower annual percentage  rate (APR)  but didnt - in order to get paid 
more commission.
He also says he was misled about the APR and cost of protection products.
background
In September  2017 Mr F got a new car from a dealer, along with some  alloy and body work 
protection insurance. The total cost was £41,974.  A total deposit  of £5,321 was put towards  
the finance, which included a manufactures deposit contribution of £1,500. 
Cambria brokered the hire purchase agreement for the remainder of the funds provided  by a 
company Ill call R. The APR of the agreement  was 6.9%. 
Mr F also says he took guaranteed asset  protection (GAP) insurance  but this doesnt form 
part of the finance agreement, so I havent considered this in my decision.
In March 2019 Mr F complained to Cambria. He said hed found out through  the media that 
some brokers manipulated interest  rates to get a higher commission - and he believes 
Cambria must have done this. He says he was told by taking the vehicle asset protection  he 
was getting the equivalent  of a lower  rate. And he says a friend  bought a similar car from 
another dealer and got a lower interest  rate.
Cambria issued a final response letter (FRL) which explained it wasnt upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. It said Mr Fs finance  was on a promotional rate from the manufacturer  and there  
was nothing it couldve done at the time of sale to give Mr F a better interest  rate. 
Mr F remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said Cambria were paid commission on a flat fee basis  by R, so 
she hadnt seen  anything to suggest  it had, or couldve, changed Mr Fs APR to get more 
commission. Mr F remained unhappy  so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
What I need to consider in this case is whether Cambria manipulated Mr Fs APR to get paid 
a higher amount of commission. And Ill also consider if it did anything  else wrong as a credit 
broker  such as pressurising or misleading  Mr F into taking the finance.
Its important to note that around six months ago the Financial Conduct  Authority  published 
its final findings into its work on motor finance.  This identified some  commission  structures 
that it had concerns about. But, it didnt have concerns about  the type of commission  R paid 
Cambria in this case.
Ref: DRN54795022Cambria received  a flat fee from R when it brokered the finance. This means it wouldve 
been paid the same amount of commission  regardless of the interest  rate provided to Mr F. 
Cambria have confirmed  the interest rate in this case was a manufacturers  deal where Mr F 
received a £1,500 contribution towards  his deposit. It says this was the lowest  APR it 
couldve offered Mr F at the time.  I havent seen anything to suggest a lower  interest  rate 
couldve been provided to Mr F, but Cambria chose not to give it to him. And Ive considered  
that Cambria wouldve  received the same commission either way  so I cant  see any benefit  
to it of brokering an agreement with a higher APR. 
Mr F says if he had known he couldve got a lower interest rate without the deposit 
contribution he wouldve  taken this. But, Cambria has confirmed this wasnt  an option.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied Cambria didnt give Mr F a higher interest rate 
than it had available.
Ive considered what Mr F said about  his friend  who got a similar car on a lower  APR. But, 
this was from a different  dealer and Mr F cant say when this happened.  And, I havent seen 
any evidence that R provided the finance, or if the circumstances, or car, were the same. So, 
this doesnt change my opinion.
Ive also considered what Mr F said about being  told the various  discounts  he received and 
protection products equated  to a lower APR.  I dont know what  was said what he took the 
finance. I think from looking at the paperwork he signed, Mr F wouldve been aware that the 
APR was 6.9%. Mr F hasnt  said he didnt  want these products. And I think  he wouldve been 
aware of the costs.  Thinking about  this, I havent seen enough to make me think its most 
likely Cambria misled Mr F into taking out the finance by saying he was getting the 
equivalent of a lower  APR. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr F said he was also told he wouldnt get the 
dealer contribution if he didnt take the additional  products.  Cambria said this wasnt  the 
case. It pointed  out that the products were  listed  separately on the paperwork Mr F wouldve 
seen. And, it said it spoke to the salesperson who dealt with Mr F who said he would never 
say this to a customer. I think  its also worth noting that as the commission  was based on a 
flat fee, the overall amount of finance wouldnt  have  impacted the amount of commission 
paid. So, while the additional items added to the finance wouldve  increased the overall cost,  
this didnt increase  the amount of commission paid.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mr F has said about this. But, looking at all the 
documents, I cant see anywhere  that Mr F wouldve been given the impression the 
contribution would depend  on him taking the additional products. Thinking  about everything,  
I havent seen  enough to make me think its most likely he was told this. 
Finally, Ive considered  all of Mr Fs other comments about  this case. But, having  considered  
everything, I dont think Cambria  gave Mr F a higher interest rate than it couldve.  And, I 
dont think it misrepresented the finance or pressurised him into taking it.
Ref: DRN54795023my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5479502