K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains, on behalf of Mrs S, that MBNA Limited hasnt refunded interest and charges 
that were added to her credit card account when she was in financial difficulty. 
background
In November 2018 Mrs S complained to MBNA. She asked it to refund £676.51 in interest  
and charges applied to her credit card account between July 2011 and April 2012. She said 
shed sent letters in July and September 2011  to advise that she was in financial difficulty, 
but MBNA  hadnt  responded. And shed gone on to enter into a Debt  Management Plan.
MBNA said it hadnt received her letters. But it had spoken to her in March, September and 
December 2011  and she hadnt mentioned she was struggling financially. It said it stopped 
applying interest  and charges to her account in April 2012 after it did become aware of her 
difficulties. So it felt it had treated  her fairly.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this response, so Mr S has helped her to bring  her complaint to our 
service. MBNA has given us consent  to consider this complaint even though it relates to 
events from more than 6 years ago, and so may otherwise fall outside of the timescales that 
explain when this service  can consider  complaints.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt it would be 
unfair to say MBNA had done anything  wrong as it hadnt  received the letters Mrs S sent it in 
2011. And she didnt  think  it had any reasons to be aware of her situation. She also noted 
that Mrs S had spoken to MBNA during  this period  and not discussed  her financial problems 
with it or mentioned  the letters. And she thought  it would have been reasonable for her to 
have done so.
Mr S felt this was unfair  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  MBNA sold Mrs S debt to 
a third party in October 2012, and hes explained Mrs S has approached this third party  
about refunding  these  charges and interest  payments,  but it directed her to speak to MBNA. 
Hes questioned MBNAs records of its conversations with Mrs S. And hes pointed  out that 
she was in arrears, so he thinks it was clear  she was struggling with her finances. He doesnt 
feel MBNA acted in line with the regulators guidance here. So the case has been  passed to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S and Mrs S will be very 
disappointed, but Im not going to ask MBNA  to refund these charges and interest payments. 
Ill explain  why.
I appreciate Mrs S took steps to try and notify  MBNA  that she was in financial difficulties in 
July 2011, and again in September  2011. Unfortunately  MBNA  didnt receive  her letters  
asking it to stop applying interest and charges to her account. I recognise how frustrating this 
must have  been  for Mrs S. But it wouldnt be fair for me to say that MBNA  made  an error by 
not acting on these letters at the time given it hadnt seen them.  
Ref: DRN56444722Mr S has pointed  out that MBNA included a copy of Mrs S 2011 letters in its response to a 
subject access request. MBNA has confirmed that its only had a copy of these letters since  
November 2018,  when Mrs S included them with her letter  of complaint.  I understand  MBNA  
responded to the subject access request in February 2019, so it makes  sense  that these 
letters would have  been included. But I dont have any reason to think  it did receive them in 
2011.
I can see Mrs S did have  opportunities to discuss her financial difficulties with MBNA. She 
spoke to it in September 2011  to request  a higher credit  limit, which MBNA declined  to give.  
And again in December  2011 when she declined an interest rate increase, which meant  she 
was unable to use her credit card for further  spending. Ive looked at MBNAs  records 
carefully and cant see any indication that she notified it of her financial situation on these  
calls. 
Mr S was unhappy our investigator reached  this same conclusion  given full transcripts of 
these calls arent available. But in this situation  I have  to make a decision based on what I 
think, on the balance of probabilities, is most likely to have happened. And I think  its unlikely 
Mrs S told the advisors on these  calls that she was experiencing financial difficulties, or 
referred to her earlier letters. Id expect  the advisors to have  recorded  this information in their 
notes if she had.
Mr S has suggested that MBNA should  have  been  aware Mrs S was experiencing financial 
difficulties from the way her account  was being managed. I can see the account was close to 
its credit  limit from May 2011, but it only exceeded  it on one occasion in August 2011, and 
was quickly brought  back under control.  Up until February 2012  Mrs S was making  the 
required minimum payments each month,  and sometimes paying a little bit more.  So I dont 
think it would  have  been obvious to MBNA  that she was struggling financially prior to the 
conversation she had with their collections  team on 28 February 2012.
Mr S suggested Mrs S had several calls with MBNAs collections team  that our investigator  
hadnt referred to. We asked MBNA  to check  its records again. And its shown us it doesnt 
have any record of its collections  team speaking with her before this point.
On the call in February 2012 MBNA  suggested  Mrs S complete an income and expenditure 
form so that it could assess her financial situation. I think  it was reasonable for MBNA to ask 
for this information, and Id expect it to review  this before it considered how to respond. 
When it received these details it could see she wasnt in a position to maintain payments to 
it. So it stopped  all fees and interest  on her account  from 4 April 2012,  meaning  the last date 
interest was applied was 15 March 2012. And low monthly repayments were accepted 
towards the balance  after this. 
When a customer is in financial difficulty we expect a business to treat them positively and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied MBNA did this here. I should add at this point  that there are no 
set measures that businesses have to apply in these situations. So MBNA werent strictly  
obliged to waive interest and charges even if this was Mrs S request. Neither were  they 
obliged to refund any earlier interest  and charges that had been applied.
Mr S has asked  for proof  that MBNA took an income and expenditure statement from Mrs S 
prior to this to prove that she wasnt in financial difficulty earlier. But I wouldnt expect it to 
have asked for this information any sooner than it did. Ive already outlined why I dont think 
it ought to reasonably have known she needed  help before this time.
Ref: DRN56444723Im very sorry to hear about  the difficult financial and personal  circumstances Mrs S has 
faced. And I do sympathise with her situation. But I dont  think  it would be fair for me to 
conclude that MBNA  acted unfairly here based on their knowledge of her situation at the 
time. And Im satisfied it took reasonable steps to help her when it was made aware  of her 
circumstances. So whilst  I appreciate Mr S and Mrs S will be very disappointed with my 
decision, Im not going to ask MBNA to do anything further.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before 7 September  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5644472