K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about his Aqua credit card, which is provided by NewDay Ltd.
background
Mr R opened his credit card account  in October 2017. Since then hes made a number of 
complaints.
The specific  issues Mr R has asked us to look at relate to:
Not being able to use his card at cash machines or for chip and PIN payments since 
May 2018 when  a transaction  was declined.
Late payment  fees applied to his account.
NewDay  recording adverse information  on his credit  file.
The compensation offered by NewDay.
The level of service  received from NewDay.
NewDay responded to Mr Rs complaints in its final response letters  dated  29 January 2018, 
8 February 2018,  10 May 2018,  5 July 2018,  9 July 2018, and 10 July 2018.
The issues  covered in those final response letters were:
Problems using NewDays interactive voice response automated phone system.
Having to provide security information  more  than once  on each call.
Being asked for an alternative  contact  number.
Late payment  fees applied to the account.
Information recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
The attitude of NewDays representatives on the phone.
NewDay refunded  a number of late payment and over-limit fees totalling £36 and credited 
Mr Rs account with £70 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, but NewDay did agree to honour an additional 
offer of £50 which it mentioned in error in its final response letter  dated 9 July 2018. Mr R 
disagreed with the adjudicator, so I was asked to make a decision on the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I thought the total compensation of £120  
offered by NewDay was sufficient. NewDay  responded to say theyd already made the full 
payment of £120  (through credits to Mr Rs account).  Mr R didnt respond to the provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN51520372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
using the card
Mr R was unable to use his card at cash machines or make chip and PIN payments from 
May 2018 onwards.
The initial problem started when Mr R attempted to make a transaction on the evening  of 
30 May 2018. That transaction was declined,  and his account was apparently  locked as a 
result. I understand that Mr R received a PIN reminder and tried to use this to unlock the 
card at a cash machine   but it didnt  work.  Its unclear exactly  when that was.
NewDay says that the card wont work  in cash machines  or for chip and PIN payments while 
there is a contractual payment outstanding on the account. That is provided for in the 
account terms. Its unclear exactly why the transaction  was declined and the account locked. 
But it clearly  caused  some inconvenience to Mr R. So Ive taken this into account  when 
looking at compensation below.
The issue  of late payments could have caused additional issues, because  it would mean  that 
Mr R couldnt use the card at a cash machine  until the relevant payment reached his 
account. When Mr R spoke to NewDay on 2 July 2018, its agent tried to explain this to Mr R. 
Mr R was annoyed by this because he thought the card was locked  before any contractual  
payments were missed.  But I think NewDays agent  was making a relevant point at that time 
 that Mr R wouldve  been unable to use a cash machine at all until the account payments 
were up to date.
NewDay says Mr R took a cash advance around 21 October 2019. So, it appears the card 
was no longer locked at that time. 
I acknowledge it must  have been  frustrating for Mr R to be unable to use his card. And 
having difficulty sorting it out obviously  upset  him. But I dont think  its unreasonable  for 
NewDays systems  to decline transactions when a contractual  payment is outstanding  on the 
account. Or for the card to be locked following a declined transaction. Ive not seen any 
evidence that makes me think NewDay did anything wrong that prolonged the situation.
If he hasnt done  so already, Mr R could consider setting  up a direct  debit to ensure the 
minimum payment is automatically  made on time every month. That may reduce  the risk of 
his account being locked  in future.
late payment and over-limit fees
From the statement information Ive seen it appears  that all the late payment  fees and over 
limit fees that were  applied to Mr Rs account  between January 2018 and September  2018  
have been refunded. So, Mr R has not lost out due to any such fees being  applied to his 
account.
Ref: DRN51520373credit file information
Mr R has provided a copy of his credit file for his Aqua card account covering twelve  months  
up to September  2018. This shows that NewDay reported his card account was up to date 
every month within that period.
NewDay has also provided evidence  showing  no adverse information was reported to credit 
reference agencies  between the account opening and January 2019. During that time the 
account is shown  as being up to date every month.
This means  that theres no evidence that the issues Mr R has complained about have had 
any negative effect on his credit file.
level of service and compensation
Over the months Mr R lodged many individual complaints with NewDay. Its clear  that he is 
frustrated and annoyed with the overall  service  that hes experienced.
I understand that Mr R had issues using NewDays interactive voice  response phone 
system. I can understand this sort of system is annoying  when  it doesnt  work as expected. 
But it seems  Mr R had the opportunity to speak to a person whenever this happened.
Unfortunately, when speaking to a person, Mr R had to repeat information to them so they 
could verify  his identity.  NewDay says it is trying to improve  its automated systems so that its 
agents know if the customer has already passed the security questions. But that at the times 
in question that wasnt possible.
I appreciate how frustrating this can be. But NewDay  has a responsibility to ensure its 
speaking with the right person before discussing details of an account. As would each 
individual Mr R spoke to. So, while this aspect  of the service fell below Mr Rs expectations, 
the limitations of NewDays  systems at the time meant NewDay  had little choice but to ask 
the security questions again whenever he spoke to an agent.
Mr R was unhappy about being  asked  for an alternative contact number. NewDay says it will 
ask for this to help with security. But that it noted  Mr Rs objection  on his account once he 
told them  about  it. I dont  think  its unreasonable for NewDay to enquire  about  alternative 
contact details. It seems to have taken  on board  Mr Rs objection  to this, so I wouldnt expect 
it to do anything more  than that.
As mentioned above, all late payment  and over-limit fees that were applied  to the account 
during the period Ive looked at have been refunded. And no adverse information about the 
account is recorded on Mr Rs credit file as a result of the issues hes complained  about.
Mr R was unhappy with the attitude of NewDays representatives when he spoke to them on 
the phone. Ive listened to a number of call recordings where he complained about this. On 
each occasion  Mr R started the call seemingly  annoyed because of dealing with the 
interactive voice response  system.  This was immediately made worse by having to provide 
the same  information  again and answer security questions. Mr R felt the attitude of the 
people he spoke to was poor.
Ref: DRN51520374On occasion,  I think  the agents couldve been  more patient with Mr R. But I dont  think they 
were unreasonable or rude. I think they were trying  to help or explain things to Mr R, but they 
were unable to do so to his satisfaction.
Overall, I think the steps NewDay has taken   in refunding the late payment and over-limit 
fees, and paying compensation totalling £120   is sufficient to put things right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is that the total compensation paid by 
NewDay Ltd is a fair and reasonable  settlement  of this complaint.  So Im not 
directing NewDay  Ltd to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5152037