K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a credit card in November 1999.
background
The policy was added  to Ms Bs credit card account when she applied for the card online via 
the EGG  website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. Ms Bs main  concern is that she was unaware  that 
she had PPI with her credit card. She told us that she thinks  it was added on automatically 
without her realising as she never knowingly signed for it to be taken out. Ms B also told us 
that she had a steady job and good sick pay through work so she didn't need PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Ms B aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose  to take it. On the 
online application form Ms B completed, she had to select the Yes option  to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. And she wouldve had to choose  one of those options in 
order for her application to proceed. Its completely understandable that she mightve 
forgotten some of these details so long after the event. But, on balance,  I find that Ms B 
knew she had a choice  about protecting her card repayments and she wanted to do so at the 
time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Ms B was asked to decide about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described,  the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Ms B couldve have benefitted from having  the policy.  
Ive taken into account that Ms B had 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months on half 
pay through work. The policy  wouldve  paid out, in full, for up to 12 months on top of her sick 
pay. So PPI gave her better protection in the event that she was too ill to work. Bearing in 
mind that Ms B mightve also had some additional  costs if she was too unwell to go back  to 
work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful  benefit at a difficult time  especially 
when she went down  to half pay only. And the policy wouldve also protected Ms Bs credit 
card repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly  and was out of work.
Ref: DRN58668442Ms B said she didnt have  any other means  she couldve depended  on if she wasnt  able to 
work. So I can see why she mightve  wanted  to have PPI. Having PPI wouldve  meant  Ms B 
could be sure shed  be able to more than cover her Egg card monthly repayments whatever 
her circumstances.
Ms B was eligible for the policy. There were  some things the policy  didnt cover. But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Ms Bs case.  So, I dont think  having  more information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided  
Ms B with the protection broadly described on the website which shed  indicated  she was 
willing to pay for. 
I think, when it was trading as EGG, Canada Square  Operations  Limited  couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But, the policy seems to have been affordable for Ms B 
when she took it out. And, looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Ms B, I think it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information  had been provided. On 
balance I think shed  still have taken out the policy. 
This means  Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms B 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because  
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Ms B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5866844