K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance  & Leicester) mis-sold  
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
The policy covered Mr L. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness 
or unemployment, it would have paid Mr and Mrs Ls monthly mortgage payments for up to a 
year.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ls signed  mortgage application  form. It included  a 
section on payment protection. It said we strongly  urge you to consider taking out 
Mortgage Payment  Cover [PPI]. Please tick one of the following boxes. The options 
were to confirm either that the applicant wished to take the PPI, or that they wished to 
consider it and wanted more information. The box was ticked  to indicate that Mr and 
Mrs L wished to take the cover  and that theyd attached a completed application form.
I think it was clear  from the way that the section  about PPI was set out on the mortgage 
application form that Mr and Mrs L had a choice  about taking it. And although Santander 
doesnt have a copy of the PPI application  form it says Mr and Mrs L would have 
completed, its provided a copy of a PPI leaflet which it says was in use at that time. This 
has a PPI application form attached to it. It also has a direct  debit mandate, which 
Santander says would  need  to have been completed by Mr and Mrs L for the monthly 
PPI premiums to be collected. So it seems  most  likely that they did complete this form, 
selecting cover for Mr L only. And Im satisfied,  on balance,  that they decided to take the 
cover knowing  that they didnt  have to.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. This means  it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But based  on what theyve told us about their 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable.  Theyve told us Mr L 
would have been entitled to between three  and six months  pay from his employer at the 
time. But if hed made a successful  claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment  on the 
policy, it would have covered Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage payments for up to a year.  Thats 
significantly longer than Mr L would have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats  more, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any payments from Mr Ls employer, allowing 
Mr and Mrs L to use those to meet other  day-to-day expenses. And they wouldnt have 
had to use their savings to make  their mortgage  payments.
Ref: DRN55929472Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs L say that if Mr L had been  unable to work,  they could 
have relied on Mrs Ls income. But without Mr Ls wages, their household  income  would 
have been much  reduced, so I think theyd  have found the fact that their mortgage 
payments were met by the PPI useful. Theyve  also mentioned that their parents could 
have helped if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant  be sure that their 
parents would have  been in a position to help if the need had arisen.
Mr and Mrs L have also mentioned that they could have sold their car if necessary, and 
they had equity in their house.  But Im not convinced, on balance,  that theyd have  
wanted to sell their car or go to the trouble of re-mortgaging their house  to keep up with 
their mortgage repayments. And although  Mr and Mrs L have mentioned  that they 
already had cover in place, it seems that this was life cover,  which is a different type of 
insurance, and wouldnt have paid out if Mr L had been off sick or lost his job.
Ive taken into account the fact that the mortgage was a long-term  financial commitment,  
secured on Mr and Mrs Ls property. I dont think the other means that they had made 
the PPI unsuitable for them. And I think Mr and Mrs L would have appreciated the peace 
of mind that their mortgage would continue to be paid if Mr L was off sick or if he lost his 
job.
It may be that Santander could have explained the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But the policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs L couldnt afford it. So even if Santander had given them  better information about  the 
cost of the policy, I think Mr and Mrs L would still have bought  it.
Its possible Santander didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have  been  affected  by any of these. Ive borne in mind that 
Mr and Mrs L have told us that in addition to his main job, Mr L worked for approximately  
four hours per week on a self-employed basis. But it doesnt  look as if this would have 
prevented him from making a successful unemployment  claim on the policy.  And I can 
see that he did, in fact, make a successful unemployment claim on the policy  in 2001.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ls comments,  including what  theyve said about 
Santanders adviser having been very insistent  that they take the cover.  But while  I accept 
that Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs L, I cant  fairly conclude, without 
more evidence, that unfair pressure was put on Mr and Mrs L to take it. 
Mr and Mrs L have also mentioned that they werent  told that there were other products 
available on the market. But Santander  wasnt obliged to tell them about products that might 
have been available from other  providers.  
Mr and Mrs L have complained that they werent told about a cooling-off  period, or that they 
could cancel the policy at any time. But Ive concluded that they chose to take the PPI, 
knowing that it was optional, even if theyve understandably forgotten this, so many years  
later. If theyd decided  they no longer wanted  the policy, I think its likely that theyve had 
contacted Santander to ask about  cancelling it. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they did so. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs L in fact decided to increase  their mortgage PPI cover  in 2003, 
although this wasnt done through Santander, and I havent considered it as part of this 
complaint.
Taking everything into account,  these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN55929473my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5592947