K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the information that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) gave  him when he set up his Teachers  Additional  Voluntary Contribution 
(TAVC) plan.  He says that if hed been  given  clearer  information, he wouldve purchased  
added years within the Teachers Pension Scheme instead of setting up his TAVC  plan.
background 
At the time of advice,  Mr A had been  a teacher for around 15 years having become a 
teacher in his mid twenties. At the time, he was employed as an Assistant Head Teacher.  He 
was 39 years old when  he joined the TAVC and his normal retirement age was aged 60. 
Mr A continued to teach  until he retired at 60.
Mr A received advice  from one of Prudentials tied advisers in 1989, to join the TAVC 
scheme. He began by making contributions of 3% of salary,  increasing these to 4.62% of 
salary in 1998. 
Mr A complained to Prudential. Prudential didnt uphold his complaint. It said,  in summary, its 
representative had taken all reasonable steps  to make Mr A aware of the added years option  
in 1989 and again in 1998, when he increased the amount of his contributions.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint, but 
Prudential didnt agree.  So, Mr As complaint  now comes to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Neither Prudential,  nor Mr A, have a copy of the paperwork from the time of sale.  As some of 
the evidence is either  incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made a decision on what I think  is 
most likely to have happened  based  on whats available.
In 1989, tied advisers  were expected  to follow the LAUTRO rules which required the adviser 
to have regard  to:
the consumers  financial  position generally and to any rights they had under a 
workplace pension;  and
give the consumer  all the information  relevant to their dealings  with the 
representative in question.
As a tied adviser, Mr As adviser  couldnt  recommend products other  than products provided  
by Prudential. The adviser wouldnt therefore  have  been  required  to advise Mr A on the 
benefits of any alternative  options,  including added years. But, the adviser did have  to make 
Mr A aware that added years was an alternative option and refer him to the scheme booklet 
or the scheme to obtain further information  about  other available options. 
Prudential said when  Mr A joined the Teachers Pension Scheme,  he wouldve been told in 
the scheme booklet there were  3 ways he could increase his pension  through paying extra 
Ref: DRN51691292contributions; through added years, TAVCs or Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVCs).
I think probably Mr A wouldve been given a scheme booklet when he joined  the scheme. 
But, that was some 15 years or so before he met with Prudentials  adviser. So, I also think 
its likely  that Mr A may not have remembered that, and he may not have  retained  the 
booklet.
Mr As TAVC application form is no longer available. I cant know what he and the adviser 
discussed at the time. Prudential said it cant say if a fact find was completed,  but there was 
no regulatory requirement at the time requiring this. It says the form Mr A wouldve had to 
complete to join the TVAC (and when he increased the amount of his contributions) wouldve 
asked him if he was paying additional contributions for family benefits, past added years, 
repayment of previously withdrawn contributions to the Teachers Pension Scheme or 
FSAVCs, so this wouldve  flagged up the available  options. It says he wouldve also been 
given a Key Features Document explaining  the other options. However, Im not satisfied  that 
in Mr As particular circumstances, he did receive  this information, or that having  joined the 
Teachers Pension  Scheme and best case scenario having  been provided with the scheme 
booklet 15 years before,  this was enough  to make him aware  of the other available options.
Prudential also said often  TAVC schemes were set up following a presentation by a 
Prudential representative  who visited the schools. It said the presentation was part of an 
approved process  to ensure that all attendees  received a fair and consistent message. But, 
I cant know if that was the position in Mr As case, so I dont place any reliance on this.
Based on the available evidence, I dont have enough to be satisfied  that more  likely than 
not Mr As attention  was sufficiently drawn to the other available  options  when he met with 
the adviser. So, on the basis that more likely than not Prudential did something wrong, I 
must go on to consider  whether  he is likely  to have  lost out as a result  of this.
The cost of added years of service  in the Teachers  Pension Scheme was determined  by the 
Government Actuary. Conservative assumptions  of likely future investment performance 
were used and this made added years more expensive. The reason being  that, the cost of 
added years was intended to be met by member  contributions alone,  rather than the 
employer having  to pick up any shortfall.
If Mr A had opted to pay for added years, he wouldve had to give up a set percentage  of his 
salary for a set term, often up to retirement.  Partial years  couldnt be purchased. Also,  the 
amount he paid wouldve increased over time,  in line with his salary increases. It seems  
Mr A wouldve  needed  to purchase four added  years to receive the maximum benefit  under 
the Teachers  Pension  Scheme  and he wouldve had 21 years (up to his normal  retirement  
date) to purchase these  added years. Im told roughly, Mr A wouldve had to pay just under 
4% of his salary for those 21 years to purchase four added years.  He didnt need to 
purchase all four added  years.
Also, Mr A had to pay fees to be part of the TAVC, whereas he wouldnt if he purchased  
added years within his existing Teachers Pension  Scheme.  So, the savings he made here, 
couldve gone directly  towards his added years contributions.
If Mr A had purchased added years, rather than joining the TAVC,  providing he made all the 
contributions, he wouldve  had a guaranteed benefit at the end of it, rather  than being reliant 
on investment performance as was the case with the TAVC.
Ref: DRN51691293The maximum Mr A could  contribute towards  the TAVC at the time was 9% and Mr A 
decided to contribute 3% initially, rising to 4.62% in 1998.  Given that Mr A wasnt paying the 
full amount possible, this suggests  to me that he was paying what  he could reasonably  
afford. However,  had Mr A realised  his benefit would  be guaranteed  if he purchased added 
years, then I think the difference in what he paid (3%) and what  he wouldve needed  to pay 
(just less than 4%) for all four added years likely wouldnt have put him off purchasing  the 
added years. In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account what Prudentials said 
about investment  growth expectations being higher in 1989, making the TAVC appear  more 
attractive. 
Prudential said that the cost of added years included provision for spouse  and dependant  
benefits. It noted that Mr A was single at the time of taking out the TAVC and appeared to be 
single at the time of retirement. It said that Mr A wouldve  been  paying for something he 
didnt need. But, I cant see that this wouldve necessarily put him off taking out added years 
either.
Continuously from 1989 onwards, Mr A made contributions into the TAVC.  The TAVC 
offered some flexibility over stopping  and starting  contributions;  buying added  years did not. I 
cant see that Mr A needed  that flexibility from the outset. As it turns out, he didnt, although 
that wouldnt necessarily  have been known  at the time. However, Ive also taken  into 
account that Mr A had been in the teaching profession for 15 years  already by the time he 
joined the TAVC. He had progressed to being  an Assistant  Head Teacher. So, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that it looked like he may leave the teaching  profession and potentially 
lose out on partially bought added years if he stopped his contributions.
Taking all of this into account,  I think had Prudential provided him with clearer information,  
he wouldve purchased added years instead of joining the TAVC. So, I think that Mr A has 
lost out because of what  Prudential most likely did wrong.
fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the Prudential Assurance Company Limited to 
put Mr A, as far as possible,  into the position he would  now be in but for the unsuitable 
advice.
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the regulators  pension review guidance,  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible, be paid 
into Mr As pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
Ref: DRN51691294income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint. I order the Prudential  
Assurance Company  Limited to pay fair compensation as I have set out above.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £160,000 I may recommend that the business pays  the balance.
determination and money award: I require the Prudential Assurance  Company Limited to 
pay Mr A compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr A 
within 90 days of the date the Prudential  Assurance Company Limited receives  notification  of 
his acceptance  of my final decision. Further interest  must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes the Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr A this compensation.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000 I also recommend that the Prudential Assurance Company pays Mr A the balance. 
I further recommend  interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for 
any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  the Prudential Assurance Company Limited to 
pay Mr A from the date it receives  notification of his acceptance of the decision, as set out 
above.If Mr A accepts  my determination,  the money  award  is binding  on the Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited.  My recommendation is not binding on the Prudential Assurance  Company 
Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my determination and go to court to ask 
for the balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. 
Mr A may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169129