K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr R says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided paperwork  from the time Mr R applied for his credit card. It is clear 
from the application form that PPI wasnt selected  at the time.  
But Barclays  has explained  that the policy was added to Mr Rs card during  a telephone call 
a few months later. There is limited information available from the time this policy  was sold,  
but from what I have seen, and knowing that this policy was added to the card after it was 
applied for, I dont have  enough to say Barclays didnt make  it clear the policy  was optional, 
or that Mr R didnt choose to have it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr R says 
he had generous sick pay benefits from his employer. The policy  would have paid out 
alongside his employee benefits  and would have also covered him if he lost his job. So, he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And, 
as Ive explained above, it seems  like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  
So, I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52127022My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5212702