K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about the cost of her home emergency insurance  policy  with British  
Gas Insurance  Limited and the service provided  to her. 
background 
Mrs W has had an insurance policy with British  Gas since it installed a new boiler for her in 
2013.
Mrs W received  the quote for the renewal of her policy  for the policy year 2016 to 2017, 
which she thought  was high. Mrs W contacted  British Gas then and the price was reduced.  
When the policy was up for renewal  again for the year 2017 to 2018, Mrs W contacted 
British Gas again, as she thought the premium was too high but this time it did not agree to 
reduce the premium. Mrs W says the increase is unreasonable, especially given the boiler  is 
not that old. And when she tried to contact  British Gas about  it initially the online complaint 
form was not easy to use and timed  her out; and her complaint was then sent to an obsolete 
email address. Mrs W says she received an email response 10 days  later,  which she says 
effectively dismissed her question and advised  her how to do a web chat. British Gas has 
also failed to deal with her complaint properly, including not informing  her of her referral  
rights after eight weeks and incorrectly closing the complaint.  
British Gas accepted that the complaint was not handled as it should have been  and that 
there was an error with its online complaint  process. However, British Gas says its premium 
increases were fair. It offered £30 compensation for the handling of the complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She did not recommend that the complaint  be 
upheld. The adjudicator was satisfied that British Gas had applied  an increase to Mrs Ws 
premium which was in line with other customers and was not unfair.  The increase in the year 
2017 to 2018 was more  significant because it had agreed to a discounted premium the year 
before. The adjudicator was also satisfied that the offer of £30 British  Gas made for the 
complaint handling errors  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs W doesnt agree that this is reasonable. She says the £30 was for the mishandling  of my 
complaint (closing  it without investigation),  not her poor online experience. Mrs W also says 
British Gas has not understood the severity of not notifying her that the premiums  in 2017 to 
2018 would  be based on what I should have paid the year before without the discount and 
that she would not continue to get a similar  discount. Mrs W also says that £30 is not enough 
for the inconvenience  caused to her by the poor customer  service and not treating  her fairly 
by being clear and open  regarding the impact  of a discount, which  meant she awas  unable 
to budget and plan for the increase.
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are generally entitled  to decide the premium they want  to charge for the insurance 
provided. And consumers  are free to choose  whether  they are willing to pay that premium; 
obtain insurance elsewhere  or not take the insurance at all. Normally insurers  calculate a 
Ref: DRN54355442base premium rate for a policy and then other  factors they consider relevant to the risk being 
covered are applied, which might  bring  that base premium up or down. Different insurers  
apply different factors. I cant set out in detail the factors that British  Gas consider relevant 
and apply to its policies, as these are commercially sensitive but I have  considered the 
information it has provided.
  
I understand that Mrs W paid £242.22  for the policy for the year 2015  to 2016; £233.49 
(following a discount of 20% -£58.37- after she called British Gas) for 2016 to 2017; and 
was asked to pay £281.39 for the year 2017  to 2018.
The base rate which applies to all customers increased in 2017 to 2018, more than in 
previous years. Other factors  were then applied and there was a discount applied to Mrs Ws 
account but this still resulted in an overall increase in the premium  from the previous year, 
and the premium ended up being just under what the previous years had been before  British 
Gas agreed a further discount. 
Mrs W had called and spoken to British Gas the year before, as she was unhappy  with the 
renewal premium quoted  to her at that time too. It agreed to offer a 20% discount and Mrs W 
agreed to renew.  From the call it appears she was told that the discount would last until the 
next renewal.  But even  if this was not expressly  said to her, I do not agree that this means 
British Gas has to provide  a 20% discount (or any further discount) in any subsequent years. 
It agreed to a discount in order to retain Mrs W as a customer in that year but this was 
entirely discretionary. Having applied a discount in one year, it is not committed  to doing  so 
in any following years. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Mrs W was treated  fairly and in line with other customers; and Im 
not persuaded that the premiums have been  calculated unfairly or that British Gas needed to 
provide any further  information to Mrs W, who was free to choose another policy  elsewhere if 
she didnt accept the premium.
With regard to the handling f the complaint and the problems Mrs W experienced online,  it 
was not unreasonable to expect the online complaint to have gone to the correct  address. 
However, from what I can see it was automatically forwarded to the correct  address and Mrs 
W received confirmation of this. So while  it may have been annoying, no detriment was 
caused and she had confirmation that it was forwarded to an active email address at British  
Gas. I dont consider  that additional compensation is warranted for this. British Gas did not 
handle the complaint as it should have done. This will have caused some frustration and 
inconvenience and I am satisfied that the £30 already offered is fair and reasonable to reflect 
this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  British Gas Insurance  Limited.  The offer of £30 already 
made is reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54355443
Ref: DRN5435544