K820x#14complaint
Mr K isnt happy with how Simplyhealth  Access dealt with a claim he made on his dental 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr K has a Denplan  cash dental plan with Simplyhealth.  In 2008 he claimed  on the policy  
for dental work following  an injury. However,  Mr K told us that the claim was put on hold 
because the dentist said fitting  an implant  was too risky at that time, as Mr K had an 
infection. Hes made  other claims since that time. In December 2017  Mr K was told that the 
claim he made in 2008 was closed. So he made  a complaint. 
In 2018 Simplyhealth issued a final response letter. They said that Mr K was aware  the 
policy had an exclusion saying that treatment needed to be concluded within  18 months of 
the date of the original incident which caused  the dental injury and he was sent information 
about this when he claimed in 2008.  They also pointed out that Mr K had requested 
extensions on other  claims and theyd sent out information about this exclusion every year at 
the point of renewal. 
Mr K says that Simplyhealth kept this claim open  beyond the normal limit of 18 months but 
then didnt tell him that theyd closed it. He says they ought  to have kept him better  informed 
and let him know about any updates,  such as closing the claim. In summary,  he says 
effectively he didnt  find out that the claim was closed until it was too late and now 
Simplyhealth wont reopen it. Mr K also says that the dental  surgery treating him also said 
the claim would  be kept open. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary he thought  that Simplyhealth had made Mr K aware of the limitation  at the point 
Mr K made the claim and he didnt think it was unreasonable the claim had been  closed. He 
referred to a letter sent to Mr K in relation to this claim in 2008  explaining  the exclusion and 
saying that once this time had expired the claim would  be closed. The letter  referred Mr K to 
the insurance policy document for full details of the cover. 
Mr K didnt agree. He provided more information about the claim being kept open and sent 
detailed responses  to the investigators opinion. He referred  to other correspondence 
Simplyhealth had sent him and reiterated  that Simplyhealth  should have kept him up to date.  
Simplyhealth clarified that it did appear  the claim had been extended twice  at Mr Ks request 
and as a gesture of goodwill. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57805022I can see that this dental  injury and the continued use of a temporary denture has had a real 
impact on Mr K. Hes explained that this has affected his confidence and impacted  on his 
marriage. Im sorry to hear that and I can understand  why Mr K would like Simplyhealth to 
consider the claim  further. 
Whilst Ive considered all of Mr Ks detailed  representations Ill only refer to those that I think 
are be relevant to my decision.
The terms of the policy say that treatment  in connection with dental injuries must commence 
within a period of six months and must be completed within  18 months of the date of the 
original incident  (within six years for persons under the 18 years  of age). This point isnt in 
dispute. 
I think Simplyhealth made Mr K aware of the 18 month limitation both in a letter  relating to 
the claim in 2008  and in later correspondence  including  information provided at renewal  and 
in relation to other claims. The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that Simplyhealth  didnt tell him 
that they closed  the claim until he contacted them  in 2017. 
Simplyhealth has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt 
reject a complaint  unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint because: 
It seems  most likely that, as a gesture of goodwill to Mr K, Simplyhealth did extend 
the 18 month period for this claim.  The information theyve provided  from the claims 
system shows  that the 18 month  letter  was sent out in August 2009 and that Mr K 
requested an extension the following  month. The notes say that the extension  was 
granted for six months
I dont think it was Simplyhealths responsibility  to tell Mr K they were closing the 
claim in the circumstances. Hed been given  an extension  and the evidence  Ive seen 
makes me think its most likely  he was told that the extension  would be for six 
months. This wasnt  an indefinite extension   there was a specific timeframe 
attached to it. So, looking at the evidence as a whole, I think that its likely to have 
been clear to Mr K that once this extension period was over,  the claim would be 
closed
I understand that the dental  work  wasnt carried out because Mr K had an infection  
and it was too risky for the dentist to go ahead with the procedure. But, if for some 
reason the work  hadnt been  carried out within that timeframe, I think it was down to 
Mr K to contact Simplyhealth and ask for a further extension. I dont think it was 
reasonable for him to expect the claim to be kept open indefinitely  
Mr K didnt  pick the matter up again with Simplyhealth until 2017  which  was many  
years after hed first claimed  for this issue. Bearing  in mind the passage of time, and 
the lack of contact  about this claim, I dont think it was unreasonable  for the claim to 
have been closed when a further extension wasnt requested once  the initial 
extension expired
Ref: DRN57805023I dont know whether Mr Ks dentist  told him the claim  was being kept open. I 
appreciate hes had some  difficulty in getting  information to support this from the 
dentists surgery. But Ive not been  provided  with any clear  evidence thats what  the 
dentist told Mr K. And, in any event,  thats  a matter between  Mr K and the dentists 
surgery. Ive not seen any compelling  evidence  that Simplyhealth told the dentist that 
the case would be kept open  indefinitely. So this point doesnt change  my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint
A letter sent to Mr K in 2011  explains that the dentist had asked  for a different claim 
to be re-opened.  This related to a separate dental injury that occurred at around that 
same as the injury  which  is the subject of this complaint. The letter explains that 
Simplyhealth hadnt been able to keep the case open indefinitely and that two six 
month extensions had been  granted.  This letter doesnt relate  to the claim which is 
the subject of this complaint. And I would have expected that letter to prompt Mr K to 
discuss his other  claim with Simplyhealth if he thought  it remained  open at that point 
in time. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780502