K822xcomplaint
Mrs B has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limited. It provided  an extended warranty for 
her cooker. She isnt happy  with how it handled a claim she made to it when the cooker  
broke down.
background 
Mrs B made a claim to Ageas at the end of June 2018. There  was a delay of a couple of 
days whilst  Ageas authorised an engineer to attend. The engineer  visited on 3 July and parts  
were ordered. In August following a further visit more  parts  were ordered,  and still more in 
September. The wrong parts were  also provided.  During one visit the engineer  opened the 
parts that had been delivered  only to find they were  incorrect.
At the beginning  of October 2018 Ageas confirmed that parts  were  out of stock and decided  
to replace the cooker. A cheque was sent to Mrs B for the full purchase price  of the broken 
cooker, as per the entitlement  provided by the policy.  Ageas  had said it would replace the 
cooker but Mrs B hadnt accepted this because Ageas had said shed have to contribute   
the item price had gone up by £230.  Mrs B didnt  think this was fair, given the delays that 
had occurred. She asked  how much  it would be to remove the old cooker  and install the new 
one too (which arent covered by the policy).  Ageas  said that would  cost a further £180. 
Regarding how it had handled the claim, Ageas  accepted  it had caused  delays  and that the 
level of service provided had been  poor.  It said it would pay £100 compensation to make up 
for this.
Mrs B wasnt  happy and complained to this service.  She explained how this had caused  her 
a lot of aggravation and inconvenience.  She said shed spent a lot of time trying to get this 
resolved which  had meant shed taken time off work and used  childcare hours to allow her 
children to be watched whilst she wrote to and called Ageas. She explained how she 
couldnt cook properly  for her family.  She explained in detail what she saw as Ageas 
failures. Mrs B said she felt it was unfair that, given all of this, she was left having to pay an 
additional £400 to get a new cooker, have it installed and have  the old one taken  away.
Our investigator felt that Ageas settlement for the cooker had been fair and reasonable. She 
noted it had accepted it had caused delays and paid some compensation. But she felt that 
wasnt enough in the circumstances here. She said, in her view, a total of £250 
compensation (including the £100 already  paid) was fair and reasonable. She wasnt  minded 
to make Ageas pay anything more. Ageas agreed  with the findings.  Mrs B did not.
Mrs B said she accepted the settlement  Ageas had made for her cooker was fair. And shed 
be minded to accept  £250  £300  compensation, as long as this was in addition  to the £100 
already paid. She said shed had to fight Ageas to get it to replace the cooker and we hadnt  
mentioned the poor conduct  of its claim handlers or the fact her calls werent  returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs B is satisfied with Ageass claim settlement. For completeness Ive looked at this 
and Im also satisfied its settlement was fair. It was made in line with the cover afforded  by 
Ref: DRN51196812the policy. The policy only offers cover  up to the cost of the original purchase price for the 
item covered. And, even  where a replacement item is provided, it doesnt cover the cost of 
installing that, or the price to remove the old one. So whilst Mrs B has had to pay towards 
her replacement cooker  that is what she would always have needed to do under the policy.
The policy did entitle Ageas to repair in the first instance. And repairs  do sometimes  take a 
little while  as parts have  to be identified, ordered  and received, along  with a further visit to fit. 
And it isnt always possible to know of every  part that will likely be required from the outset. 
So I think its likely that, even if the repair had been handled satisfactorily, there  would 
always have been  some period of disruption  for Mrs B to bear and some need for her to 
engage with Ageas. So not everything  Mrs B has been through  has resulted from Ageas 
failures. 
I think, as did our investigator, that the claim, as a whole though,  took far too long. And Im 
satisfied that the poor conduct  of the call handlers, as well as Mrs B not being called back, 
played a part in those delays. I accept  as well that Mrs B was frustrated by these issues. But 
Im not convinced that upset was divisible  from or separate  to the overall frustration that 
existed because the claim wasnt getting resolved. 
I appreciate that Mrs B has spent a lot of time dealing with this claim, beyond  what  she could  
reasonably have expected to. And I agree that it shouldnt have taken so many calls or 
emails to get the matter resolved. But I havent  seen any evidence that Mrs B lost work 
because of the time she had to put in, or that she used up her childcare hours.  And even if 
I had, Id be minded  to think  that losing wages  and or childcare might  not have been a 
reasonable response to the problem  at hand in the circumstances here  Ageas not 
responding and the family being without a cooker.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied that Ageas failed Mrs B in its handling of this 
claim. It should have  communicated with her better and moved to replacing her cooker  at an 
earlier date. Im also satisfied that Mrs B was caused distress and inconvenience by these 
failures and that a total of £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. Ill make an 
award in this respect but I understand that some or all of this figure may already have been 
paid by Ageas (by cheque) and the money banked by Mrs B. In that case  it will only now 
have to pay any amount  outstanding (that Mrs B hasnt accessed). 
I know Mrs B also has concerns about  Ageas  not providing her all the information it held 
when she made a data request to it. That is something she needs to take up with the data 
commissioners office. 
Ref: DRN51196813my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To make up for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mrs B Im 
satisfied that Ageas  Insurance Limited should pay a total of £250 compensation. 
If any or all of this sum has already  been  paid to and received by Mrs B, then only any 
remaining amount  will now need  to be paid.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5119681