K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained he had been mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander) alongside  his mortgage. 
background
Mr S complained he had been mis-sold PPI when he took out his mortgage. Santander didnt 
agree the PPI was mis-sold so Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld on the basis that Mr S had a pre-
existing medical condition when he took out the policy. Santander still didnt agree the 
complaint should  be upheld  and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020, a copy  of which is attached  to, and forms 
part of, this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought the PPI hadnt  been  mis-sold.  
Neither party has made any further  comments or submissions in response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought it was made  clear  the policy was optional  
and Mr S was eligible  for it. I also thought full costs  and benefits information  had been  
provided. 
However, it wasnt clear if full information about  the restrictions  in the terms and conditions 
had been provided at the time of sale. Mr S said he had a pre-existing medical  condition.  He 
had provided information  showing he had been diagnosed and treated for this condition 
some 25 years before he took out the policy. But the medical  records  did not show  there  was 
any time other than this one occasion, many  years before, that he had sought medical 
treatment for the condition. 
The terms and conditions  of this particular policy indicated that if a claimant  had been free 
from symptoms  of a condition for a 24-month  period prior to a claim then the exclusion would 
not apply. Therefore, I found it was more  likely  than not that the nature of Mr S condition  
would not have affected any claims he would  have made on the policy  if he had needed to.
So if the full conditions had been explained it would not have made  any difference  to Mr S 
decision to take out the policy. It follows I thought  the PPI had not been mis-sold.
As neither party has provided any new information or disagreed with my provisional decision, 
I have no reason to change my findings  and my decision remains  that the PPI wasnt  mis-
sold. 
Ref: DRN54717192my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, a copy of which is 
attached to and forms part of this final decision, I do not think  the PPI was mis-sold by 
Santander UK Plc to Mr S so I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S complains that that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy by Santander 
UK Plc (Sandtander) alongside a mortgage.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with Santander  in June 2002 and at the same time bought a PPI policy.  The 
cost of the policy was paid for by monthly premium.  
Mr S complained he was mis-sold the PPI policy. Santander didnt agree  the policy  was mis-sold as it 
said Mr S chose to take it out, it was suitable for his circumstances and he could have claimed on the 
policy if needed.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response  from the business and brought his complaint to this service.  He 
is represented by a third party.
Our adjudicator looked  at the information and said the complaint should be upheld. This was on the 
basis Mr S had a pre-existing  medical condition at the time he took out the policy which  would have 
affected his ability to claim on the policy.
Santander didnt agree the complaint should be upheld  and asked for an ombudsman  to consider the 
complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
I dont agree with our adjudicator and Im not intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint.  I shall explain  why.
The policy was sold some  18 years  ago so it isnt surprising that neither  Santander nor Mr S have  
copies of all the paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account  that memories can 
fade over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory, I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is on what I think  is most likely  to have happened.  
Mr S has told us he never consented to the PPI and it was added to his mortgage without any 
discussion. Ive thought about this and taken  into account  what we know about how Santander sold 
Ref: DRN54717193these policies  around this time. Santander has provided some  sample information about the PPI sold 
at the time and also information on its sales process. 
On balance the paperwork completed in the mortgage and PPI application process  made it clear  to 
consumers that the policy was optional and they would  have been asked to consent  separately to 
take out the cover. A separate form to the mortgage application would have needed to be signed. 
Also, as the payment for the PPI was separate to the mortgage payment, a separate  direct debit form 
would also have been completed. 
So I cannot see anything to suggest PPI wasnt discussed at all and that Mr S didnt know the policy 
was optional and he had a choice  whether to buy it. In view of the separate  direct debit form and 
monthly payment for the PPI I also believe he was fully informed of the costs and the benefit it could 
provide.
As Santander recommended  the policy to Mr S Ive also considered whether  it was a suitable 
recommendation taking into account Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale.
Based on what Mr S has told us he was eligible  for the policy. Mr S was employed  and says he had 
been in his role for some five years. He indicates he was entitled to between 3 to 6 months sick pay if 
off sick. However if he had been made redundant or been off sick, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any other  payments which he may have received.
The main issue in this case is about a pre-existing medical condition Mr S had and if this would have 
restricted his ability to claim on the policy. Not all pre-existing conditions  affect the right to make a 
claim on a policy, therefore  just because a consumer  has a particular condition does not automatically  
make a PPI policy mis-sold.
Mr S tells us he cannot  remember being asked about any medical conditions at the time he took out 
the policy.  It is possible  that medical  conditions were not discussed and Mr S wasnt fully informed of 
all the restrictions of the policy. But I think its also possible that Mr S may not recall discussing the 
medical condition and the Santander representative still recommended the policy because the 
condition and circumstances  surrounding  it would  have had not affected Mr Ss ability to claim on the 
policy.
Mr S had Eczema. He has provided a note from his doctor which  indicates he was diagnosed  and 
treated for this condition on one occasion in 1977, some 25 years before he took out the PPI. There  is 
nothing indicated from the information provided  about his medical records,  that other than on that one 
occasion he ever attended his doctors or had any treatment provided by his doctor for the Eczema. 
Mr S has told us he used creams to control the Eczema and occasionally took short periods of time 
off work  due to the condition.  However the medical  records would not appear to indicate there was 
any time, other than 25 years prior to taking out the policy, that he sought any treatment for it.
The terms  and conditions of this policy say that although claims will not be paid for pre-existing 
conditions, if the claimant has been free from symptoms and has not consulted  a doctor or received 
treatment for the condition for a 24-month period prior to the claim  then the exclusion will not apply. 
On the basis Mr S hadnt seen a doctor about the condition for some 25 years it would  suggest any 
symptoms would have been minor and not been caught  by the policy restrictions.  
Taking all these factors into account,  I cannot see that the nature of Mr S condition was such that it 
would have affected claims  he may have wanted to make on the policy for sickness.  
In the meeting with Santander, if the full information  about the condition was given to the advisor by 
Mr S, some  discussion may have taken place.  But this particular condition,  and factors  relating to it, 
would not appear to have affected the benefits available  to Mr S and his ability to claim for this 
condition. And the recommendation for the policy would have  been made  on that informed basis.  
Ref: DRN54717194In summary, I cant rule out the possibility of shortcomings in the advice and information  provided by 
Santander during this sale.  However taking account of his circumstances, I have seen no evidence 
that Mr S was disadvantaged by any shortcomings in the way that Santanders representative may 
have described the policy to him. I think he would have been able to claim  on all aspects of cover 
provided by the policy if needed.
So I am satisfied that Mr S would not have acted any differently even if all the terms and conditions 
had been explained  more comprehensively or clearly, and full awareness of his condition had been  
discussed. I still think he would have bought it.
Although I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Ive seen no evidence  that the 
policy was mis-sold by Santander. It follows, therefore, that I am not intending to uphold  the 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, I dont think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold by Santander UK Plc so I am not intending  to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5471719