K822xcomplaint
Mrs R has complained about advice she received from Bank of Scotland  plc in August 2009 
to invest £300  per month in a stocks and shares ISA. She says she was led to believe that 
the ISA was guaranteed  to provide  a return,  with no risk to the ongoing value of her funds.
But, on receiving her annual statement in October 2018, she saw that the increase in value 
of her ISA for the year was less than the premiums shed paid over the previous 12 months. 
Also, when she received a valuation in December 2018, she found that its value had fallen 
below its value two months earlier, even though she had paid two further  premiums  of £300 
each.
Also, the 2018 statement was much more  transparent than previous annual  statements she 
received which  didnt make it clear  she was investing a high-risk product. If they had, she 
might have cancelled  the ISA sooner  and not suffered the losses she made since October 
2017.
background 
In August  2009,  Mrs R was advised to invest £300 per month in a range of four funds of a 
stocks and shares ISA that, collectively, presented a medium  degree  of risk to her money.
In response to her complaint, Bank of Scotland agreed that, based on her personal and 
financial circumstances at the point of sale, the funds she was recommended exposed her 
premiums to a greater degree of risk than she would  have been prepared to take.  It decided  
that Mrs R could afford to take a cautious approach to investment risk and carried  out a loss 
assessment which  compared the overall  value  of her ISA when she surrendered  it in 
December 2018  and the value an investment  would  have acquired at that date using a 
benchmark rate prescribed by our service  for investors wishing  to take a cautious degree 
of risk. 
This revealed that the ISA Mrs R had taken out in August 2009 was worth  over £2,000 more 
in December 2018 than if she had invested £300  per month  in a product that carried a low 
degree of risk. In other words, the advice Mrs R received (albeit that it was considered 
unsuitable) gave her a more favourable return than the type of investment she ought to have  
been recommended.
Mrs R didnt accept Bank  of Scotlands  findings and maintained  that she thought  the ISA 
gave her a guaranteed return with no risk to the ongoing value of her fund.  Only when she 
received her most recent annual statement  did she realise that the ISA carried  a risk to her 
money and, if she had known this, she might have surrendered it earlier  and avoided being  
out-of-pocket in the final year. Her October  2018  annual statement confirmed that her ISA 
had increased  in value by £3,061 over the year having paid in a further  £3,600. And, when 
she received a valuation in December  2018, its total value  had reduced  even though  shed 
paid-in a further £600.
Furthermore, Bank of Scotland didnt provide a breakdown of its loss calculation for her to 
agree or disagree with its conclusion  that she suffered no loss. Had she taken  out the 
comparative investment  and seen that it had made  less return, she could have switched it to 
another product.
Ref: DRN54412702Also, she requires a breakdown of any fees,  commission and any other deductions Bank of 
Scotland has applied to the ISA from outset.  Previous  annual statements were not clear, and 
the bank never contacted her to review the investment when it wasnt performing. Even 
though the bank concludes that shes not been financially disadvantaged by the advice she 
received, she still feels still that she is out of pocket and there is no sanction on the bank for 
its actions.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who didnt  think it could be 
upheld. Briefly, he said that:
having agreed Mrs R had received advice that was unsuitable for her, the purpose  of 
the loss assessment carried  out by Bank of Scotland is to put her back  in the 
financial position she would have been in now had she received the correct advice;
he was satisfied that the basis  of the banks loss assessment was appropriate  in that 
it applied the benchmark  rate of return to her premiums our service would 
recommend for an investor looking to take a low degree of risk with her money;
while Mrs R claims previous  annual statement didnt  give her a clear indication  how 
her ISA was performing, she hasnt provided a copy of any statements she received 
for him to make a viable  comparison.
Mrs R responded that there were outstanding issues the investigator hadnt addressed; 
namely, that:
she received her annual statement to October  2018 in December 2018, which 
showed the ISA has made less than the premiums shed paid in the past year.  When  
she asked to close the account,  she couldnt appreciate how its worth had fallen 
further even though  she had paid £600 since the ISA was last valued;
she wanted to know what commissions and fees the bank has received  from her 
monthly premiums and whether they continued  to be deducted even when the value 
of her ISA was falling;
even if the loss assessment finds that she hasnt  been disadvantaged financially 
overall, the figures given on previous statements were  not transparent;
she was never offered  a review of the investment; otherwise, she might have decided  
earlier to switch to a more favourable investment.
The investigator considered Mrs Rs points but, on balance,  he wasnt  inclined to change his 
view that:
it was difficult to assess the transparency or otherwise of previous annual statements 
Mrs R received because she hasnt submitted any of them for his consideration. He 
could only comment generically that, due to the risk-based nature of the ISA, the 
cause of any significant fall in its value  would be the fluctuation  in unit prices,  rather 
than the application of charges;
the charges  would have been set out to Mrs R in the original illustration she received. 
But neither the bank  nor Mrs R has been able to provide him a copy of this 
illustration;
Bank of Scotland has provided  a sample  investment  statement for 2018 that does list 
the charges for managing and administering the investment, including an annual 
management charge  (AMC) and other expenses such  as depositary  fees and 
expenses, custodian fees, registrar  fees, audit  fees and regulatory  fees.  The other 
expenses are deducted as a percentage of the fund value or charged  to the fund as a 
Ref: DRN54412703fixed fee. These would  have been set out in the original illustration Mrs R received in 
2009;
theres no indication  that fees and charges would cease to apply in periods  where  the 
ISA value was reducing;
Mrs R could have contacted the bank  if she wanted to discuss  her plan with an 
adviser. But, in 2012,  Bank of Scotland closed it financial planning division and would 
have notified all its clients accordingly that they would need  to appoint their own 
adviser if they wanted to review their existing investments;
above all, Bank  of Scotland has shown that Mrs R is better off financially than she 
would otherwise have been if she had invested in a lower  risk-rated product over the 
period September 2009 to December 2018.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I think its important to explain the role of our service. We resolve individual  disputes 
based on the evidence provided by each party to decide, on balance,  whether a complaint 
should be upheld  or not.
So, it is incumbent on Mrs R, in making the complaint, to put her case  to us and provide the 
information and documentation to which she refers in support of her claim.  It is not our role 
to act as her advocate, or to retrieve information  from Bank of Scotland  on her behalf to 
provide a Question and Answer service. As such,  if Mrs R claims that documentation she 
received from Bank of Scotland  in the past was somehow misleading or lacked 
transparency, she must  provide evidence of this with her complaint. Otherwise, it is difficult  
for us to form a view as to whether the documentation to which  she refers has caused her a 
financial loss.
Having said that, the quality of documentation  naturally improves  over time and in response 
to regulatory initiatives. So, Mrs R needs to show that the annual  statements she received 
were not clear or were misleading that they led her to believe the ongoing  value of her ISA 
was guaranteed to increase progressively more than the monthly premiums she paid. 
Otherwise, its very difficult for us to support her case that she would have surrendered the 
investment earlier  if she had known there was no such guarantee.
The evidence that is available to me surrounds the sale of the ISA to Mrs R in August 2009. 
Based on her personal and financial circumstances at the time, I agree with Bank  of 
Scotland that she should not have been categorised as an investor who was prepared to 
take a medium  degree of risk with £300  of her disposable income each month.  Her 
disposable income was sufficiently healthy to invest £300 per month  but, as she had little 
previous investment experience, Im satisfied that she should have been advised to take a 
cautious approach  to investing  this amount each month. That is not to say this alternative 
investment would not have fluctuated in value either.
Accordingly, Bank of Scotland carried out a loss calculation using the benchmark rate of 
return our service prescribes for investors wishing to take a cautious approach to risk.
This concluded that Mrs R paid-in  £33,600 to her ISA between September 2009 and 
December 2018  and she received back £39,365.25, including £19,000 she withdrew from 
the account in July 2014. 
Ref: DRN54412704If she had placed  £300 per month  in a collection of cautious risk-rated funds over the same  
period, that investment would have  given her a return of £37,096.26 by December 2018 - 
£2,269 less than the return she received from the ISA she was recommended.  I have 
checked the banks calculations and am satisfied theyve been carried out correctly.
I understand Mrs Rs point that, if she had appreciated the value of her ISA had grown in the 
final year at a rate that was less than the monthly premiums she had paid, she could have 
surrendered the ISA before it lost so much money.  
But, unless Mrs R monitored  the performance  of her ISA on a regular basis  over its final 
year, it would have  been difficult for her to anticipate when it was more favourable to 
surrender it than in December 2018.  Even though,  by October 2018, its total value had 
increased by less than the 12 monthly premiums  she had paid to it, this difference in value 
would not have been a steady decline over the year - its value would have fluctuated up and 
down throughout  the year such that it would have difficult to decide when to surrender it.
And, even  if annual statements in previous years had been as comprehensive as the one 
Mrs R received in the final year to October  2018, given the figures  in those statements are 
retrospective, she would not have been  able to act in time to avoid any losses that might 
have been illustrated.
The ISA statements did summarise the charges and fees that apply regardless of the 
performance of the investment because costs  of administering the account and managing  
the fund must be covered, however well or badly  the ISA performs. If, as Mrs R has said, the 
value of the ISA increased in the its final year to October 2018 by less than the total 
premiums she paid to it, this would be attributed to the fluctuation in the unit price rather  than 
to the application of charges which would have  been just the same when the ISA was 
showing an increasing return  in previous  years.
The loss assessment carried out by Bank  of Scotland correctly  concluded  that the 
investment Mrs R was advised  gave  her a greater return by more than £2,000 over the nine 
years she held it than an investment she ought to have taken out in August 2009.  And the 
return she received from the ISA takes account of all the charges,  so theres no value in 
setting these out separately  to Mrs R or reimbursing these charges to her as this would be 
double-counting.
So, I dont think Mrs R can expect to receive compensation for losses that occurred over a 
selective period when the ISA failed to perform,  and she realised it was risk-based. Its 
performance should be assessed  over the whole  period she held it. The adviser referred to 
the ISA in August 2009 as being  risk-based, and he recorded that Mrs R was prepared to 
take a medium  degree of risk with £300  per month.  Accordingly, theres insufficient 
evidence to believe that Mrs R thought  she was being recommended  an investment that 
carried no risk at all. 
All things  considered, Im satisfied that, while theres  reason to believe that Mrs R was 
advised to invest  in a product that carried to much risk for her, overall, it has not caused  her 
a financial loss when  compared to the return an investment that was suitable  for her would 
have given.
decision
Ref: DRN54412705My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5441270