K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) applied  a default to his 
credit card. Mr B also complains that Barclaycard didnt respond to his emails asking why his 
account had been charged  despite making  the minimum  payments. 
background 
Mr B had a Barclaycard  credit card and on 20 September 2017 he sent an email  asking  why 
hed been charged despite  making  his minimum monthly payments. Barclaycard  didnt  
respond and Mr B later cancelled his direct debt instruction. Mr B continued to email  
Barclaycard for several months  about this issue but didnt receive a call back  as requested.  
Mr B didnt make any further  payments.
During this period Barclaycard wrote  to Mr B about the arrears on his account and went on 
to issue a default because no payments were made. Mr B says he didnt receive any of the 
letters Barclaycard  sent him about the arrears or default and was waiting to hear back  about 
his question. 
In June 2018 Mr B contacted Barclaycard as hed become  aware of the default. Barclaycard  
completed a budget planner with Mr B and found he could afford to make  payments to the 
debt. Mr B complained that Barclaycard shouldve responded  to his query and that he hadnt 
received any letters  about the arrears or default. Mr B also said the default  would make 
getting a mortgage harder. Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint so he referred it to 
this service. 
An investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint  and upheld  it. They  thought Barclaycard 
shouldve done  more to respond  to Mr Bs query in September 2017  and that the decision to 
default the account wasnt fair. As a result, Barclaycard agreed to the following:  
-Remove the default from Mr Bs credit file
-Allow Mr B to start making repayments  to the credit card debt
-Report that the account was in arrears while Mr B wasnt  making payments
-Suspend over credit limit charges until Mr Bs brought the balance below the agreed 
limit
-Pay £75 for the trouble and upset  caused  (taking the total award  to £125) 
Mr B didnt accept as he doesnt  want to have any adverse information recorded  by 
Barclaycard on his credit file. As Mr B didnt accept the investigators recommendations his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial issue that Mr B asked Barclaycard to explain  is about how hed made the 
minimum payments to his credit card but was still over his agreed limit. The investigator 
gave a detailed  explanation of why Mr Bs minimum payments  werent enough to keep his 
balance below the credit  limit. I wont recreate it in full here but, in brief, its because when 
Ref: DRN55539882Mr B opened  the credit  card the rules were different and meant that his monthly payment 
was only clearing a small  portion of the outstanding balance. Between August 2016  and 
August 2017 Mr Bs balance reduced by 0.22% a month and the remainder of the payments 
he made were used to cover interest and charges.  
The rules  on credit cards changed in 2011  and since then a minimum of 1% has to be repaid 
each month. But that didnt  affect  Mr Bs credit  card because it was opened  before  that date. 
I understand why Mr B was confused that his balance  wasnt  what he expected and I agree 
that Barclaycard  shouldve given him an explanation when he asked in September  2017. 
Mr B says that he cancelled his direct debit because Barclaycard didnt respond. 
Unfortunately, that meant the arrears on Mr Bs account increased and led to it being placed 
in default. I understand that Mr B wanted  to get answers but I dont think Barclaycard acted 
unfairly by continuing to apply interest and charges  to his account and treating it as in 
arrears after he stopped making  payments.  
I think its reasonable to note that there were other options available  to Mr B to get in touch  
with Barclaycard when  he didnt receive  a response. He sent emails  asking for a phone  call 
but he couldve also called Barclaycard  directly.  I understand his frustration but by stopping  
his contractual  monthly payments he was acting outside of the terms of the credit card. That 
means Barclaycard  could  reasonably proceed  with its collections process and moving  to 
default. 
Barclaycards also given  us evidence that it wrote  to Mr B at his address about the arrears 
and default on his credit card. The letters are all correctly addressed,  in line with the 
information Mr Bs given us, and it seems unusual that none were received. But I appreciate 
Mr B was waiting for a response from Barclaycard around this time which  may be why he 
didnt take any further action. 
Ive carefully thought  about how to fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. Hes told us the defaults  
affected his chance to get a mortgage  but hasnt  provided a credit report. So I cant say what  
level of impact the defaults had. And whilst I agree Barclaycard shouldve  responded to 
Mr Bs query, I think its reasonable that his credit file accurately reflects that he hasnt made  
any payments to the account since 2017.  As a result, if Mr B accepts  this decision the 
default will be removed from his credit  file but arrears will show instead. Im satisfied thats 
fair and accurate. 
Barclaycard has agreed to the following: 
-Remove the default from Mr Bs credit file
-Allow Mr B to start making repayments  to the credit card debt
-Report that the account was in arrears while Mr B wasnt  making payments
-Suspend over credit limit charges until Mr Bs balance is below the agreed limit
-Pay £75 for the trouble and upset  caused  (taking the total award  to £125) 
Ref: DRN55539883Barclaycards passed  the credit card debt to a third party so if Mr B accepts itll have to 
retrieve it. Mr B should be aware Barclaycard has said if he misses  two payments its likely 
to result in his credit card being  going  into default  again.
Taking everything Ive seen into account I think the above settlement  is fair in all the 
circumstances. As Barclaycard has already  agreed to the above, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to settle  in line 
with the above guidance. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required  
to ask Mr B to accept  or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5553988