K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  because St Andrews  Insurance Plc has declined their claim for 
theft of a bike and cancelled  their policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr D called  St Andrew's to make a claim. He said that his bike had been  stolen  
from his side passageway.  It was locked to the drainpipe  the thieves had pulled apart  the 
drainpipe and guttering to remove the bike. He had called the police and had just been given 
a crime reference  by email, they hadnt  come  out. He had CCTV but this didnt show the 
theft, although he thought  it might be shown on his neighbours CCTV. He said it was a 
particular brand of expensive  mountain bike which hed bought through the cycle to work  
scheme. He was asked  if there was any other damage or bikes  stolen  etc. Mr D mentioned 
that hed had another bike stolen a couple of weeks previously, from his shed but he hadnt  
reported it to the police.
Mr D had in fact made an enquiry to St Andrews some nine days  before in April 2018  in 
respect of the first bike that was stolen. He was told by St Andrews at the time that he didnt 
have pedal cycle cover. He had however said in the phone call that it was the brand  of bike 
he later said was stolen  from the side passageway  of his house.  When questioned about  it 
he said hed made  a mistake about  the brand of bike in respect  of this enquiry.
St Andrews  said it wouldnt deal with the claim.  It said it was satisfied hed attempted to 
make a claim for the same bike citing different circumstances, in breach of the fraud 
condition in his policy. It cancelled the policy back to the date of the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that St Andrews had acted fairly  Mr D 
had clearly tried to claim twice for the same bike. Mr D objected to this and was particularly 
concerned that his wife was being  penalised  as well. I issued a provisional  decision. In it I 
said that I didnt  think St Andrews had made  a clear enough case  to decline Mr Ds claim for 
fraud. So I said it should reinstate the policy and reconsider Mr Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs D accepted  my provisional decision.
St Andrews  also accepted it, though  it said due to the length  of time it may not be able to 
reinstate the policy, so may have to issue a new one. It will discuss this with Mr and Mrs D. It 
is prepared to refund the difference in premium of any new policy subject to satisfactory 
proof.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
I have listened to both calls when Mr D reported the theft of his bike.  On the first occasion, 
the claims handler went inti the details of the theft and established that there  was no 
evidence of a break-in to the shed and that the padlock appeared to be undamaged. But he 
told Mr D that any claim  wouldnt  be covered because he didnt have pedal cycle cover  in his 
policy. Whilst St Andrews has subsequently  said it wouldnt have paid out on any claim as 
Ref: DRN57118352there was a lack of evidence that the shed was locked, it didnt tell Mr D this at the time. 
Mr D did mention the brand of bike, that it was expensive and that it was a mountain bike.
For the subsequent claim,  Mr D did go into more detail  about the bike and it does appear to 
have been the same bike he mentioned  in the first call. He also clearly rang to report  the 
theft of a bike, rather than the damage  to his house.
Cancelling a policy for fraud is a serious  matter.  Mr and Mrs Ds name  will appear  on a fraud 
database shared  between  insurers. And they will be obliged when applying for insurance  in 
the future  to disclose  the cancellation of this policy. As Mr and Mrs D have already found out 
this is likely to affect  any premiums. As a joint policyholder Mrs D is affected by this. So we 
take the view that there must be strong  evidence to show  that it is most  likely that Mr D 
breached the fraud condition in the policy 
Im not clear why Mr D made the subsequent claim having previously been told he didnt 
have pedal cycle cover. St Andrews  has suggested  he checked his policy  cover and 
realised he did have  the cycle cover  but not when it was in a locked shed,  so made a new 
claim to fit the circumstances in which it would be covered.  But this is supposition on 
St Andrews  part, as Ive said the only reason given for the first claim not proceeding is the 
lack of cycle cover. So because St Andrews  gave the wrong reason for not covering that 
claim, this weakens the argument that Mr D thought  he would be covered if he presented 
different circumstances.
Mr D mentioned the same bike on both calls. He later said that this was a mistake,  he was 
stressed on the first call having just returned from a stressful  holiday and said the wrong 
brand of bike, it was a cheaper one about three  years old. I can understand St Andrews 
scepticism as Mr D clearly  used the more  expensive bike to travel to work, so might  have  
noticed immediately  that this bike had gone. But on the other  hand  I have to bear in mind 
that by the time the claims handler got around to asking him about  the brand of bike,  Mr D 
had already been told he didnt have cycle cover. So it was less important to have  that 
information.
Mr D failed to mention in the second  call the first claim hed made. But he wasnt  challenged 
about the first claim, nor was it mentioned  by the claims  handler.  He was asked whether 
anything else was damaged or any other  bikes stolen and he volunteered the fact that 
another bike had been  stolen from his shed. He said he didnt proceed as he didnt have  a 
crime reference number.
The letter declining the claim said that the claims handler had questioned Mr D about the 
enquiry hed made. And in the final response letter  Mr D was told his (first) claim was 
declined as the cycle  was stolen from a shed  which  was not locked. Neither  of those 
statements were right, and Im concerned that they change the narrative to imply a 
dishonesty that wasnt there.
Im also concerned about the investigation,  which appeared to be carried out over the phone. 
No attempt was made to interview Mr D or any possible witnesses in person, or to visit the 
site of the alleged theft.  It seems to me there are unanswered questions  and possible CCTV 
evidence. 
Im not presently  satisfied, from the information  and evidence that Ive seen, that St Andrews 
has made a clear enough case to decline Mr Ds claim  for fraud. so my provisional  decision, 
based on that, is that St Andrews should  reinstate the policy and reconsider his claim in 
Ref: DRN57118353respect of the theft in May 2018.  Im not inclined to ask St Andrews to deal with the first 
theft, as it appears  to me from the evidence that the shed wasnt  locked, so the claim 
wouldnt be covered.  If Mr D however  has any other evidence about  that theft, he should 
advise St Andrews. It should also remove  the cancellation from its own and any external 
databases. If Mr and Mrs D have had to pay a higher premium for alternative insurance, 
St Andrews  should  refund the difference between the new premium  and the premium  it 
would have charged, but for the cancellation. 
As neither party has objected to my findings, they are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
So far as reinstating  the policy is concerned, if St Andrews has to issue  a new one that 
would be sufficient, so long as Mr and Mrs D dont have to pay any further premium. If Mr 
and Mrs D have taken  out alternative insurance  they should advise St Andrews  of this and 
show it any evidence of the premiums paid.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require St Andrews Insurance  Plc to:
reinstate (or, as set out above, issue anew) Mr and Mrs Ds policy and remove  all 
details of the cancellation from all internal and external databases.
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds claim for theft as set out above 
if Mr and Mrs D have had to pay a higher premium  for alternative insurance, refund 
the difference between the new premium  and the premium it would have charged, 
but for the cancellation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5711835