K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly increased the 
renewal premium on a motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr J is the named driver  and payer of the premium  of an Admiral  motor insurance policy.  In 
2017 he was involved in an accident  that wasnt his fault. The policys  premium increased at 
renewal in 2018. Mr J contacted Admiral who told him that the non-fault incident had affected  
his premium.
Mr J didnt think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt think 
Admiral had done anything wrong.  Mr J didnt agree so the complaints been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the proposed increase in policy premium at renewal. Admiral told him 
the premium calculation was affected by the non-fault incident. It said that was because its 
claims statistics  showed that customers whod had a non-fault  accident  are more likely  to 
make claims in the future.  Mr J didnt think that was fair.
I can fully understand  why Mr J doesnt think its fair that his premium is affected by an 
incident in which he was entirely blameless. But insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk. When  deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an assessment 
of the likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to 
pay out for those. And insurers will take into account a number of different  factors  when 
deciding what to charge for insurance. And if the assessment of risk increases,  an insurer  
may decide to increase the premium.
Were not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell an insurer  how much it 
can charge for its policies.  Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer  what factors it should  take 
into account when  assessing risk. Different  insurers will have different views on what  
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. And we generally  take the 
view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customer with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
In this case its apparent  that one of the risk factors Admiral takes into account  is whether a 
drivers been involved in a non-fault accident. And thats certainly not an unusual  practice  
across the motor insurance  industry.  Admiral  has shown us some  statistics on which  its 
based its assessment  of risk. That information  is commercially sensitive so I cant  share it 
with Mr J. But Ive seen  that the figures support Admirals arguments.  So if Admiral  thinks  
drivers whove been involved  in non-fault incidents  pose a greater risk than drivers who 
havent, its entitled to charge a higher premium.
Ref: DRN51354722Mr Js also told us that hed become aware  that Admirals  applied the same rules to other 
customers. But as Ive said above, in order to be satisfied that Admiral  was treating its 
customers fairly Id expect to see consistency in how it applies its ratings factors.  In other  
words to be fair it must  treat customers with the same circumstances in the same way. 
So Mr Js discovery that Admiral is applying its rating rules consistently for other 
consumers is evidence  that Admiral is acting fairly. And as Ive said above  its not for me to 
tell Admiral how it should go about  assessing  the risk it believes its policyholders present. 
Thats something its allowed to do when balancing  its need  to cover any perceived risks 
against its desire to be competitive and retain a customers  business.  So I dont think  its 
approach to rating risk is unfair.
For completeness Ill add that when Mr J bought  his complaint to us he complained that 
Admiral had said the premium increased because the non-fault accident increased the risk of 
a fault claim in the next policy year. But in the call Mr J referred to I think  the call handler is 
simply responding to Mr Js points. And I think the call handler is clear that while there  is 
potential for a claim there  was no guarantee that would happen.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5135472