K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Link Market Services Trustees  Limited (trading as Link  Asset  
Services) didnt sell his shares  when  they said they would do so.
background
In September  2017 Link Asset Services wrote to Mr C to say that it would be selling shares  
he held in ABBVIE  if it didnt hear back from Mr C before  4 April 2018.
Mr C wrote to Link Asset  Services at the end of March  to ask if his shares  could be 
transferred into a stocks  and shares ISA. They  couldnt so Mr C left it, expecting  Link Asset 
Services to sell his shares  on 4 April 2018.
On 26 April 2018 Mr C emailed Link Asset Services to ask where the proceeds of sale for his 
shares were  as he hadnt received them. He got no response. Mr C emailed  Link Asset  
Services again on 4 May 2018 and again  didnt  get a response.  He emailed Link Asset 
Services again on 25 May 2018  asking  where his money was and chasing a response.  In the 
meantime Link Asset Services had written  to Mr C on 20 May 2018 to say that it had decided  
to transfer the shares into Mr Cs name  rather than sell them.  
On 29 May 2018 Mr C complained to Link Asset Services  that hed had problems trading 
online and that he was unhappy  his ABBVIE shares  hadnt been sold, and that hed been 
worried his money had gone missing.
Link Asset  Services investigated  Mr Cs complaint and agreed that it had let Mr C down. Link 
Asset Services offered  to sell Mr Cs ABBVIE  shares and waive  all fees. Mr C would have 
made a profit at that stage if hed sold because his ABBVIE shares  were  trading 5% above 
where theyd closed on 4 April 2018. Mr C was unhappy with Link Asset Services  response 
and continued  to complain. Mr C ultimately  complained to us. In the meantime the price of 
Mr Cs ABBVIE shares had dropped below where  theyd closed on 4 April 2018.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint and thought Link Asset Services  offer 
was fair and reasonable. Mr C disagreed saying that hed been waiting for the outcome of 
his complaint before selling his shares  and if he didnt get the price  on 4 April 2018 which  
was when he says Link Asset  Services agreed to sell them hed make a loss. So Ive 
considered Mr Cs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive told Mr C that I agree with him that Link Asset Services has let him down in a number of 
ways. Ive said, for example, that it should  have let him know  sooner  that the default option  
for his shares had changed  that it was going  to transfer them  into his name rather  than sell 
them. I said this because  Link Asset Services should have thought  through the implications 
of MIFID II sooner  thats what caused it to change  the default  option. Instead Mr C ended 
up worrying the proceeds of sale had gone missing. That was very worrying  for Mr C.
Link Asset  Services said that it was going  to sell Mr Cs ABBVIE shares  on 4 April 2018  if it 
didnt hear back from him before then.  The closing  price that day was $92.94.  Mr C tried to 
Ref: DRN53899572sell his ABBVIE shares on 29 May 2018   the closing  price that day was $99.47.  In other  
words, the price had gone up. Ive told Mr C that Im prepared to accept that he tried to trade 
online, and that he had problems using the online service so he complained. 
Mr C told Link Asset Services  on 29 May 2018 that he wanted  to wait for the outcome of his 
complaint before going ahead with the sale of his ABBVIE shares. I can understand why he 
said that, and I dont think that was unreasonable. The problem is that he got an answer on 
21 June 2018   thats when Link Asset Services  issued its Final Response.  In its Final  
Response Link Asset Services offered to sell Mr Cs ABBVIE shares and to waive the fees. 
At that point the closing price of his ABBVIE shares was $95.55  again  above the price he 
would have achieved  had they been sold on 4 April 2018. At that stage Mr C had an answer  
to his complaint,  so I told him that I couldnt see why he didnt sell then.
Mr C has told me that he was unhappy with the Final Response, and he wanted  further  
issues to be investigated.  I can see he did, but he then got a second  response from Link 
Asset Services repeating  the offer to sell his shares.  This second response was sent on 9 
August 2018.  Mr Cs ABBVIE shares  were still trading above the closing price on 4 April 
2018 and they continued to do so until 18 September 2018.  At that stage  Mr C waited a 
further three months  before  he complained  to us  he did so exactly  six months after Link 
Asset Services Final Response. In other  words,  he waited  as long as he was allowed to 
before complaining. I cant say that Mr C was still waiting for an answer to his complaint 
given that hed already had two responses from Link Asset  Services  and then waited until 
the six months was up before complaining to us. Mr C has said he has up to six months to 
complain. I agree he does, but thats not the same as saying he has to wait for six months 
before complaining.
Ive told Mr C that I accept it must  have  been  worrying believing  the sale proceeds of his 
shares had gone  missing.  I also agree  that the compensation Link Asset  Services offered - 
£50  doesnt fairly reflect this. I suggested  a figure of £200 is more appropriate. Link Asset  
Services agreed, Mr C didnt. I still think that figure  is fair, so thats the amount  Im going  to 
require Link Asset Services to pay Mr C.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that I require  Link Market Services Trustees Limited to pay Mr C £200 in 
compensation for trouble  and upset  less any compensation already paid  and to waive  all 
fees if Mr C decides  to sell his ABBVIE shares.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5389957