K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt sort out the 
problems he had when  he was a victim of fraud.
background 
Mr C has a credit card account with Barclaycard. His credit limit stood at over £5,200.  In July 
2017 he found four transactions which he hadnt  made. These were all to buy insurance. 
Two transactions were debited on 26 June and a third on 6 July 2017. The fourth never  
actually debited his account. As soon as he noticed this, Mr C complained to Barclaycard.  
Barclaycard re-credited his account and also refunded charges made for Mr Cs account  
going over its credit  limit. The insurance  company for the fourth  transaction  also credited the 
payment to Mr Cs account.  This was for £1,346.23. When  this mistake was picked up, 
Barclaycard re-debited Mr Cs account.  Mr C complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard paid £100 and £50 into Mr Cs account  on 18 August  and 25 September.  Mr C 
thought things were  sorted but noticed  his account still showed him as out of pocket. He 
complained to Barclaycard. This was in December 2017 when he made  at least  two further  
calls to Barclaycard. He was then told theyd sort it out and thered  be nothing more  to pay. 
Interest which had been added to his account and further charges were refunded. On 
14 December Barclaycard paid a further  £100 to Mr C.
In January 2018 Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Hed had a further conversation  
with Barclaycard and told thered be nothing to pay so was upset this wasnt the case. He 
was also concerned that his credit limit had been massively reduced.  
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. Barclaycard said they had nothing to show thered 
been a call just after Christmas as Mr C said. But she felt the evidence pointed to Mr C being  
mistakenly told that his account would be adjusted to a zero balance.  This was a mistake as 
she showed any debt on the account  was down to Mr Cs own spending rather than any 
knock-on effects  of the fraud. She noted  Mr Cs testimony about how upsetting  the whole 
experience had been. It had left him with a lack of trust in Barclaycard and their ability to sort 
out any problems  he may have. He felt that it was only fair he was paid considerable 
compensation. She confirmed we didnt make  compensation payments at the level Mr C felt 
was right but she asked  Barclaycard to pay a further £100.  
Barclaycard agreed  to pay this. They also agreed not to add further interest  or charges  to 
Mr Cs account as he cleared his debt in January and February 2018. They would also clear  
any late payment markers from his credit record. They would also make  sure they didnt 
send Mr C any further arrears letters relating to this debt.
Mr C didnt think this took into account how distressed hed been  by the whole experience.  
He was also concerned that he didnt have the credit limit he was used to working within.  
Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
Following the allocation of this complaint, I contacted  both Mr C and Barclaycard. I felt there 
had been a telephone  conversation with Mr C just after Christmas 2017  as hed received a 
letter dated  27 December.  Barclaycard  discovered  they had made a call to Mr C on 28 
December. They offered Mr C a further £50 for this error. They  felt as this would  mean theyd 
have paid Mr C £400 in total, they werent prepared to offer anything more.
Ref: DRN58142522I told Mr C about this further offer. Although he was prepared to accept less compensation 
than hed previously  felt was right, he didnt think this was enough.  He confirmed how much 
of an impact this had all had on him and wrote a powerful email which I shared with 
Barclays.
I now have enough  information to complete my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same outcome as our adjudicator. And where Ive differed Ive already been in touch with 
both Mr C and Barclaycard to let them  know. 
Firstly all parties agree Mr C was a victim of an attempt  to defraud  him and buy various 
insurance contracts.  But this whole experience has caused Mr C to consider his relationship  
with Barclaycard and was upset when he was left with a debt on his card which  he didnt 
think was his, and was down to the fraud.
I can easily see how this happened. Only three payments for insurance  were  taken from his 
account in June and July 2017. These were all re-credited to his account on 24 July 2017. A 
fourth payment  which had never  actually been  debited from his account but had been 
pending  was also credited on 12 July directly by the merchant. Once this error had been 
noticed, Barclaycard  had no choice but to refund  the merchant.  This was done on 10 August. 
But Mr C had carried out his own spending during this period  so there ended up being a 
balance on the card which he owed.
I dont doubt  and the evidence confirms this  that Barclaycard  mistakenly told Mr C 
thered be no debt on his card. What they obviously meant was the debt related to the fraud 
as opposed to his spending.  But they didnt make  this clear. And as Mr C was so upset 
about his overall  fraud experience, I dont think it was that surprising that he came  to the 
conclusion he did.
However I do have to confirm that it wouldnt be fair for Barclaycard  to write off Mr Cs own 
spending. I note that he has now paid off what was owed and Barclaycard didnt apply 
interest and charges as they agreed with our adjudicator they wouldnt. Any late payment 
markers have also been removed  from Mr Cs credit  record.  There will now be no record of 
those ever existing.
Ive also confirmed to Mr C that its difficult to show exactly  how the fraud  happened. But that 
most likely an unknown  third party got hold of his card details and used them  to make  
fraudulent transactions. As the right card details were used, there  was no immediate way for 
Barclaycard to detect  these as fraudulent. What was important though  was that as soon as 
Barclaycard was notified of the fraud, whether they then did what  wed expect. And looking 
at what happened  here, I think  they did.
Mr C remains  concerned  about his credit  limit being reduced.  This has had quite an impact  
on him. I dont think it would be fair to instruct Barclaycard to increase his credit  limit back  to 
where it was. That is a commercial decision for them to make  about the level of risk they 
wish to accept. But now that Mr C has repaid his debt and is using  his card normally  again, 
they may be prepared to consider this again.
Ref: DRN58142523So the only remaining  issue  to resolve  is whether Barclaycards offer to pay £400 
compensation in total is right?   Barclaycard has already  credited  Mr Cs credit  card account 
with £250. 
Theres no doubt Barclaycard made a mistake in giving Mr C the wrong impression his debt 
would be cleared. But the fraud itself wasnt Barclaycards fault and they tried to sort things 
out pretty promptly. But similarly I accept Mr Cs evidence about the effect this has all had on 
him. Barclaycard has offered to pay another £150  to bring the total to £400.  Im going  to 
increase this by another £50 to bring the total to £450. This is higher compensation than 
wed normally award in these cases but I feel it is merited  because  of the impact 
Barclaycards error has had on Mr C.
I hope this bring  this issue to an end for Mr C and gives him some  peace of mind,  although  I 
accept the compensation remains lower than hed like.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as 
Barclaycard, to pay Mr C a further  £200 for the trouble this has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814252