K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  at how Santander UK Plc has sought to recover  the outstanding balance on 
his interest only mortgage. 
background
Mr M took out an interest  only mortgage with Santander (then Abbey National) in 2003. 
He borrowed £167,950 over a term of 10 years. The term came  to an end in January 2014, 
at which  time the capital  balance became payable (then around  £165,000).
Mr M asked  Santander for more  time to repay  the capital,  as he was looking to carry out 
improvement work to the property before selling it to pay off the mortgage. But with no 
agreed plan in place, Santander initiated  legal action  to recover the outstanding balance in 
early 2016.
This led to a complaint from Mr M about how Santander  had dealt with matters, which he 
referred to us in May 2016.  He said that the bank hadnt properly replied to his proposals  for 
more time to pay what he owed and, as a result, hed been  unable to start the work  he 
wanted to carry  out.
While that complaint was with us, legal proceedings were postponed. One of our 
adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought  that it would  be fair for Santander to allow 
Mr M a further six months to repay  the mortgage.  Santander agreed to this grace period, 
starting 14 July 2016. And Mr M accepted that offer in resolution of this complaint on 
8 August 2016.
Mr M made a separate complaint to Santander in early 2017 about the interest rate applied  
to his mortgage. That matter was also referred  to us. It resulted in an offer from Santander  to 
refund overpaid  interest and consequential costs totalling over £30,000, which  our 
adjudicator thought was fair. Mr M accepted  this offer in resolution of this complaint on 
19 September 2017.
With the mortgage balance still outstanding in late 2017, Santander  resumed legal action. 
This ultimately resulted in a court  granting  Santander an order  for possession  of Mr Ms 
property in January  2018.
Mr M referred a further complaint to us in February 2018. He reiterated his unhappiness  at 
how the bank  had handled his requests  for more time once the original mortgage term had 
come to an end in 2014. 
Mr M also said that Santanders solicitors had used the wrong terms and conditions  in its 
application to the court (theyd submitted the 2004 conditions,  rather  than the 2002 version 
that Mr M said applied). So he was unhappy that possession had been granted on false  
evidence  meaning  the property would now be sold at whatever was offered, instead of a 
fair price that could  be obtained with more  time.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think  it should be upheld. As 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators opinion,  his complaint was passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN50503682my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint last month, setting out why I didnt intend 
to uphold it. I said:
Firstly I think its important to explain that weve already considered  much  of what  Mr M 
is unhappy about under  his previous complaint. 
In raising this new complaint with us in 2018,  Ive noted that Mr M reiterated his 
concerns about  how Santander engaged  with him when his mortgage term originally 
expired in 2014. A key point, that Mr M repeatedly comes back  to, is that he feels the 
bank gave him a two-year extension without  explaining this to him  depriving him of 
the opportunity  to do the work he wanted to do to the property. He thinks this was in 
breach of various regulations and principles laid down by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
But weve already considered a complaint from Mr M about how Santander treated him 
when his mortgage term expired in 2014,  and with particular reference  to his concerns  
about failing  to confirm an extension to him at this time. And he accepted Santanders 
offer of a further six-month grace period  in settlement of that complaint, back in 2016. 
So were  not going to look into these  issues any further now.
Ive also noted  that within  Mr Ms response to our investigators opinion on this 
complaint, he said that Santander failed to treat him fairly in how it handled  the 
problems with the interest rate applied  to his mortgage. He says this led to him 
keeping  and paying  the mortgage  for longer than he otherwise would have. But 
again, weve already looked into a complaint about  this issue  and Mr M accepted an 
offer to settle it. So were not going  to look into that matter again now either.
The only matters that Mr M raised  in this further complaint to us in 2018 that weve not 
already considered relate to Santanders  actions since that six-month grace period 
expired. So those are all Ive looked  at when reviewing this complaint. 
In this respect, I note that Mr M is unhappy that Santander resumed legal proceedings 
immediately after the settlement of a previous complaint about the amount of interest  
he was charged (in November 2017).  So Ive considered its actions here  and from 
what Ive seen, I dont  think its treated Mr M unfairly.
I say this because  by this time, Mr M had actually had more  time than was intended 
under both the original mortgage term (which  expired in January 2014) and the six-
month grace  period that both parties subsequently agreed to in settlement of the first 
complaint (which expired in January 2017). 
In the event, the court order was only obtained  in January 2018  some four years  
after the balance  had first fallen due. So Mr M ended  up with an additional 12 months 
in which  to arrange repayment of the balance  as Santander decided against  legal  
proceedings while the separate  interest  rate complaint was reviewed and resolved. I 
think that was a reasonable step.  But it wasnt  a formal  extension, and there was no 
need for Santander to agree one by this point.
Ref: DRN50503683As Mr M says himself,  the six-month grace  period wasnt long enough to do the work 
he had in mind. So I think he wouldve known when agreeing to it back  in 2016  that he 
had to refinance or sell the property in order to repay the mortgage. And I can see from 
what hes told us that he did take steps in this regard. Unfortunately, he wasnt able to 
do either within the agreed  six-month grace  period. 
So by late 2017,  with the balance still outstanding   several months after the agreed  
grace period had ended   and with no plan in place to repay  it, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Santander to have  resumed legal proceedings.  Mr M had already 
had considerable additional  time to explore  his options, either by refinancing or selling 
the property himself, and this hadnt  yielded a resolution.
I appreciate Mr M feels hes not been treated fairly  as at no point  was he told of the 
timescale  which  he says precluded him from initiating renovation work to the 
property. But in resolving  the first complaint,  we told Mr M that Santander had agreed 
a further six months  within which he needed to repay the mortgage and that this would 
expire in January 2017. 
I understand that if Mr M had known back in 2014 that he wouldnt be required to repay 
the mortgage until January 2017 (or even later),  then he may well have been able to 
carry out the work he wanted to do the property  and potentially  agree a sale for a 
higher price  than hes now able to get. But it was never the banks intention to grant 
Mr M such a significant further  period of time, and when we reviewed his initial 
complaint we didnt  think  it needed  to. Its just a result of how things have worked  out. 
And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  think this means Santander has done 
anything wrong.
Mr M is also unhappy that the wrong terms and conditions were  presented  to the court 
within Santanders claim for possession. I can see that he has already sought to raise  
that with the court. And that is the appropriate  step  as were not able to overturn or 
set aside the court order, even if it was granted on the basis  of incorrect  information.  
There is, therefore, little I can helpfully add on this point.
While this complaint has been  under review, Mr M has also raised a number of points  
about the enforceability of the mortgage agreement. Hes referred  me to the outcome 
of a test case about the legal enforceability of credit agreements in the absence  of a 
true copy  of the agreement itself. This issue wasnt raised at the outset  so not 
something addressed  either by Santander  or our investigator.  And so it wouldnt be fair 
for me to make a decision on that now. But for Mr Ms reference,  I would point  out that 
his mortgage is not regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974   so this case  law 
seems to hold little relevance to his circumstances.
Santander accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr M didnt. In a detailed response,  he 
said, in summary, that:
Santander didnt respond  to his letter of 29 November 2013,  or the three  letters he sent 
subsequently, with a request for a term extension.  Approval wouldve given him time to 
carry out the work, while  refusal  wouldve prompted  him to sell and repay the mortgage  
then. Instead, things had been  allowed to drift. And by failing to take any action within 
the two-year  period  after the term end, Santander had granted an extension  but failed to 
provide the necessary documentation  and breached  regulations in doing so.
Ref: DRN50503684Santander had misled us during our investigation of his second complaint about the 
interest rate in 2017.  He also said it had misled solicitors about this too, stating the 
matter had been addressed when it hadnt. He said these actions amounted to attempts 
to mislead him, and wed not addressed that before. Santander had also failed to write 
to him about  the interest  rate issue as it ought  to have  done, as directed by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Had it done  so, this wouldve prompted him to sell the property there 
and then  as he wouldnt have wanted  to be associated with Santander any longer.
Santander hadnt followed the correct protocols before initiating legal action. And it had 
acted unfairly in requiring him to discuss the matter  over the phone. He thought all 
contact shouldve  been in writing, given  the importance  and significant financial 
commitment of a mortgage.
He had contacted an independent financial adviser about  a possible equity release 
mortgage in May 2016. The adviser asked  for his permission to discuss information 
about his financial  circumstances with the solicitors acting on behalf  of Santander, which  
he gave. But that led to the solicitors  telling the adviser  of the date of the hearing in 
June, which he believed  to be a breach of the Data Protection Act.
His application  for an equity release mortgage had been declined,  and he queried 
whether Santander might have blocked this in some way  pointing to Santanders  
publicised partnership  with this particular equity release  provider. 
Some correspondence  hed received from Santander over the years hadnt  been 
included within  the banks response  to his subject access request (SAR).
When taking out the mortgage, the firm of solicitors  that had acted for him had also 
acted for Santander.  Hed been unaware  of this at the time and wouldnt have 
proceeded on that basis if hed known. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr Ms further  submission.  
Having done so, Ive not reached a different  conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
In doing so I should firstly say that while I have read and considered all the further  points and 
information Mr M has sent me, I wont be commenting on each and every point hes raised. 
Were an informal service  so Ive focused my findings on the points that I consider to be 
most relevant to how Ive reached  my decision, which  I hope  he wont  find discourteous.
Mr M has reiterated his belief that Santander acted unfairly in how it handled his request for 
a term extension as he approached the end of scheduled mortgage term. I know he feels  
very strongly  that the bank ought  to have either  agreed the extension   giving him time to 
carry out the renovation work  he wanted done   or declined it so that he couldve sold up 
and resolved things  sooner. But as I set out in my provisional decision,  weve  already looked  
at a complaint  from Mr M about how Santander dealt with things during this period. And he 
accepted a resolution to those issues back in 2016. So Im not going  to comment any further 
on them  now.
Ref: DRN50503685Mr M has also raised further concerns in how Santander dealt with the matter relating to the 
interest rate. But again, that was dealt with under a previous complaint too. While we may 
not have addressed the specific concerns Mr M is seeking to raise now, he had the 
opportunity to raise  them then if he was unhappy.  But he accepted settlement in respect  of 
that complaint  too. So I wont be commenting  on that issue  further now either.
As set out in my provisional  decision, the only matters  that Mr M raised  in this complaint and 
that Ive considered here relate to Santanders  actions since  the six-month  grace period 
expired in January 2017. And I still dont think its acted unfairly  here. 
Mr M is concerned that Santander didnt follow the established protocol  when  referring the 
matter to court. I believe hes referring  to the Pre-Action  Protocol  for Possession Claims 
based on Mortgage or Home Purchase Plan Arrears in Respect of Residential Property. 
Thats a protocol for possession claims due to mortgage arrears. But that wasnt  the basis  of 
Santanders claim  Mr M wasnt in arrears. The mortgage had reached  the end of its term, 
and the capital he borrowed was outstanding. There isnt a particular protocol for that. 
Ultimately, the court  granted Santander the possession order  that it applied  for  and in 
doing so must have  been satisfied that it was entitled to possession. And I explained  in my 
provisional decision why I didnt think Santanders decision to proceed with possession 
action was unreasonable. Theres  nothing  in Mr Ms further submission that leads me to 
think differently about that.
Ive considered what Mr M says about  Santander  requesting that he contact them by 
telephone to discuss the account (and its decision  to try and contact him by phone  too). 
Thats not uncommon and I dont think it was unreasonable.  A telephone conversation will 
allow a thorough discussion of a borrowers circumstances, and gives both parties the 
opportunity to ask questions and make suggestions   and do so much quicker than over 
exchanges of letters. Theres no requirement for all correspondence about a mortgage 
account to be put in writing. And I cant see that Mr M specifically requested that Santander  
do that, or that he had a particular reason for needing or wanting it either. So I dont  think it 
acted unreasonably here.
On the issues with Mr Ms unsuccessful equity  release application, hes not pointed to any 
real evidence to suggest  that the lenders  decision  to decline it was in some way influenced  
by Santander.  If hes unhappy with that decision, it may be something  he wishes  to raise 
with the lender who made it. 
On the related matter of Santanders  solicitor sharing information about  the court action with 
Mr Ms broker, I cant see that it didnt anything wrong here.  Mr M says himself  that he gave 
his permission for the solicitor to share information about the account with his broker   and 
Ive seen an email with his explicit consent  for this. So while  it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to make a finding on whether this represents  a breach of the Data Protection Act as Mr M 
suggests, it doesnt seem to me that Santanders agents did anything wrong here.
Ive noted what  Mr M has said about possible omissions from Santanders  response  to his 
subject access request. But I cant see how any of the missing correspondence  that Mr M 
refers to has really had an impact on anything  at issue here. Mr M might  wish to raise any 
concerns about  Santanders handling of the SAR with the Information  Commissioners Office.
Ref: DRN50503686Ive also noted  Mr Ms concerns about a possible conflict of interest in the same firm of solicitors  
acting for both him and Santander when  the mortgage was taken out. Thats  quite a separate  
issue from the complaint  Mr M originally  referred  to us and isnt something  the bank has had the 
opportunity to address. So hed need  to raise a separate complaint with Santander   or perhaps 
more appropriately  the solicitors in question  if he remains unhappy about that.
So while Ive taken  into account everything  Mr M has said, I dont think Santander has done  
anything wrong  in the steps its taken to recover the outstanding balance under his interest 
only mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050368