K820x#14Complaint
Miss B complains  that Virgin Money plc sold her a credit card which she couldnt afford, and 
they failed to respond to her when she let them know she was facing financial hardship.
Background
Miss B applied for and was issued with a credit card from Virgin Money  in October  2016.
The account  was opened with a £7000 credit limit and the first transaction  was a balance 
transfer of £4,472.62 on an interest free credit promotion until April 2019.
The first payment was made in December 2016 which was the monthly  minimum payment. 
However Januarys  payment was missed,  which meant that interest  was applied and a late 
payment charge applied. Virgin Moneys customer notes indicate that Miss B contacted them  
in February 2017  about the missed  payment. Virgin  Money re-instated her interest  free 
promotion and refund the late payment charge. A direct debit was also set up to pay the 
monthly minimum payments in future.
The credit account  wasnt regularly used, but there  were three further money  transfers in 
February, March and April 2018  all of which were on promotional  interest  free terms. The 
minimum payments continued to be made  by direct  debit, and no interest was paid until the 
first interest free period  ended in October  2018.
Miss B has explained that she suffers with mental ill health, and this made  it difficult  for her 
to manage her finances. In January 2019 Miss B wrote to Virgin  Money explaining her health 
problems and her change in circumstances. The letter explained the financial difficulties she 
was experiencing and was asking for help. 
Virgin Money failed  to respond  to Miss Bs letter for help. In April 2019 Miss B complained 
that she shouldnt  have been given  credit which wasnt affordable and that they didnt help 
her when she let them  know she was in difficulties.
Virgin Money Money didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint about  the mis-sale of her credit  card.  
They explained that they werent aware of her mental health condition at the point of 
application or when theyd  been in contact with her following the opening of her account.  
They did uphold her complaint about how they responded to her letter in January 2019.
Virgin Money explained that they received her letter and it was passed to their Specialist 
Support Team. The letter wasnt correctly forwarded to the team though,  so they didnt 
contact Miss B. Virgin  Money apologised and refunded the interest applied to Miss Bs 
account from January  2019 and froze the interest  for two months to allow their Specialist 
Support Team  to contact  Miss B to discuss the issues with her account. They  also credited 
her account  with £100 for the inconvenience  and distress shed been caused by their 
mistake.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with the response  from Virgin Money and wanted us to investigate 
her complaint. Our investigator looked into what had happened.  He didnt think  that Virgin 
Money had made a mistake giving Miss B a credit  card account. Her application was made  
online and she provided details indicating an income and the time in her current job. She 
passed their affordability  checks. And they wouldnt have been aware of any mental  health  
issues that may have  caused her difficulties. He agreed that Virgin Money  had failed to 
Ref: DRN55339322respond as they should to her letter in January.  He looked at what  theyd done to put things 
right though and thought what they did was fair.
Miss B has asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  it will be disappointing for Miss B, 
but Im not upholding her complaint.
Ive considered whether Virgin Money,  based  on the information available, carried  out 
reasonable checks to make sure that this credit was affordable for Miss B. Companies can 
decide on the checks that they do to make  sure a customer can afford the debt, but I would 
expect these checks to include  a consideration of income and expenditure, as well as 
checks against customers  credit  history. 
Miss B applied for this credit card online and Virgin Money have shown us the information 
provided. The checks that are carried out are automated, but include  credit checks, and 
Miss B passed the affordability checks. I dont think the level of borrowing at the time 
wouldve have been considered unaffordable  based  on the information Virgin  Money had.
Miss B has also asked if she should  have been given credit because her mental health 
problems were the cause  of her subsequent financial difficulties. Miss B has shared the 
details of her mental ill health with us which cant have been  easy.  
Where businesses are aware of existing mental health problems, they should be considering 
the impact of this and discussing  it with the customer. Mental  illness can take many forms 
and businesses cannot necessarily refuse credit just based on mental  health  problems  as 
this may discriminate against  people.
Ive considered whether the circumstances  here meant that Virgin  Money couldve known 
Miss B was suffering mental health  problems. Miss B didnt let them  know  when she applied 
for this credit  card.  This is understandable since Miss B explained that she was largely 
unaware of the extent  of her illness herself at that time. Her mental  health  problems  were  
only diagnosed  later. Because  of this, I dont think its fair to say that Virgin Money could 
have refused credit for something  that it didnt know. Nor could they have known  to put 
additional support in place  for Miss B at that time.
Ive also considered whether there  may have been  other indicators after the application  that 
could have indicated  to Virgin Money that Miss B was experiencing financial difficulties. 
There was a missed payment in the second month.  Virgin Moneys call records show  that 
Miss B was spoken  to and explained  that shed simply  missed  the due date. The call note 
says that there were  no issues of financial hardship disclosed. Virgin Money  re-instated  the 
interest free period  and refunded the late payment charge, so Miss B wasnt disadvantaged. 
I dont think Virgin Money  couldve assumed  at that point that Miss B had any issues that 
affected her ability  to manage  her debt. 
Other than that, the account history for Miss Bs credit card shows that payments were being 
made on time by direct debit. Only the minimum payments were made. But the debt on the 
card was interest free for most of the term in question.  And - at least  on the initial balance 
transfer - wasnt debt accumulated with Virgin Money but debt moved  to them  on an interest 
free promotion. In these circumstances making  just the minimum payments each month  isnt 
Ref: DRN55339323by itself an indication  of a customer in difficulty. So theres nothing  in the account activity that 
makes me think Virgin Money  should  have picked up on any difficulties without Miss B 
making them aware.
Of course,  Miss B did make them aware in January 2019  when she wrote a letter  explaining 
the problems she was experiencing. Shed relocated, her personal  finances had changed, 
and she was suffering  mental ill health. This was the first point that Virgin  Money could 
reasonably have responded to her potential financial hardship. Theyve acknowledged that 
they failed to do this. This failing left Miss B struggling without  support. 
Where a business makes  a mistake, which  is the case here, our job is to put the consumer 
into the position they wouldve been  in if the mistake hadnt happened. In this case,  it means, 
putting Miss B where she would have been  if Virgin Money had acted promptly in January  
2019. The rules  that govern lenders are set out in the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook. Section 
7 says that lenders should treat consumers in default or arrears with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
Virgin Money removed  the interest  which had been applied  to Miss Bs account from January 
2019. I can also see that Virgin Money also ceased  to apply interest  to the account from that 
time onwards. They have  also undertaken not to sell on Miss Bs debt and are treating her 
as a vulnerable  customer. Miss B stopped making  payments in August 2019 and her 
account now shows in default. There has been no pressure  placed on Miss B to make 
payments that she cant afford. 
I consider it disappointing that Miss B had to bring her complaint to us for her issues to be 
addressed. But I think  that the way Virgin Money  responded  once the mistake  had been 
identified was fair and reasonable. Her debt is not increasing and she is not under pressure 
to make payments  that she cannot  afford.  Virgin Money awarded  £100 in compensation for 
the distress caused  by their mistake. I think this is a reasonable figure given that it took a 
further six months to address the issue, but the accumulated interest in that time was only 
£64.98 and Miss B missed no payments.
Whilst I understand that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision,  I dont think  that its 
fair in these circumstances to say that Virgin Money were irresponsible in agreeing the credit 
card application.  And I think  that the way that Virgin Money eventually  treated Miss Bs 
financial hardship was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5533932