K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P initially complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold Mrs P a 
fee-paying sole Additions packaged bank accounts  in the late 1990s. 
Mr and Mrs P have  also complained that Barclays mis-sold Mrs P a sole (which  later 
became a joint)  Additions Plus packaged bank account in 2007.
background
In response to the complaint, Barclays refunded the Additions account fees from May 1998 
until July 2007,  with 8% simple interest. But it didnt think the Additions Plus account was 
mis-sold, so didnt refund any of the Additions  Plus account fees. Unhappy with this, 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service.
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt  think that the Additions Plus account had 
been mis-sold, so didnt  recommend that the Additions Plus account fees be refunded. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with this and asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Mrs P says that she doesnt  remember agreeing  to the upgrade of her account to an 
Additions Plus account in July 2007. Mrs P says it just happened.  Whereas Barclays  says 
that it wouldnt have  automatically upgraded Mrs Ps account and has provided  system 
records which indicate that the upgrade took place within a branch. Barclays  has only been 
able to provide  limited  information about the sale, but given how long ago it took place I think  
this is understandable.  
In response to the adjudicators assessments, Mr and Mrs P said that the adjudicators  hadnt  
taken their version of events into account. But I think it will be helpful  to explain that where  
evidence is incomplete  and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything Ive seen 
and been told by both parties.
At the time,  the Additions Plus account  cost £14.50, which was £3 more per month  than what 
Mrs P was paying for the Additions account. The main difference between  the two accounts 
at the time was that the Additions  Plus account also included worldwide travel insurance, as 
well as European breakdown cover. And I can see payments that appear on the statements,  
that Mrs P travelled to France shortly after the account was upgraded, in August 2007. One 
of which  included a payment for a French toll road.  
So based  on the available evidence, it appears that Mrs P had a need for both travel  
insurance and European  breakdown cover  both of which werent provided by the Additions 
account. So, again whilst its not clear if Barclays did recommend the account to Mrs P, I 
dont think it wouldve been  inappropriate had Barclays recommended it to her. 
Ref: DRN59405412And there is some evidence, albeit limited, from Barclays that suggests that the account  was 
upgraded in branch. Therefore having weighed  everything up, I think  its more likely than not 
that Mrs P agreed to upgrade her account  because  she was attracted to what  it offered, 
rather it being upgraded by Barclays without obtaining Mrs Ps consent. I say this particularly 
as the upgrade took place  over 11 years ago and I think its just as likely that Mrs P agreed to 
it, but now, understandably,  doesnt recall doing  so.  
Because of the limited evidence that is available, I dont know what information  Mrs P was 
given at the time about the account  and the associated benefits.  But I havent  seen anything  
about her circumstances at the time that makes me think she wouldve been put off from 
upgrading her account, had she been given better  information about it. Because of this, I 
dont think that it was mis-sold. So I dont think Barclays should refund the Additions Plus 
account fees as Mr and Mrs P have asked it to do. 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5940541