K821x#15complaint
Miss F has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender). Miss F says that Quick Quid  was 
irresponsible to lend to her because it ought to have known she couldnt afford the loans.
background
Quick Quid agreed eight loans for Miss F in the period from January 2009 to August 2017. 
Since bringing her complaint to this Service, Miss F has withdrawn her complaint about her 
first seven loans, which leaves her eighth  and final loan agreed on 30 August 2017 for us to 
look into.
This loan was initially for an amount  of £300  to be repaid  in two instalments of £38 and £367.  
On the 16 September 2017,  the day after making her first payment, Miss F borrowed an 
additional £850. She now owed £1,980  in total to be repaid in three instalments of £251,  
£304 and £1,426 (rounding the figures) in October, November and December.  Miss F made 
her first two repayments, then extended  this loan in December making an additional interest 
payment of £276.  She made her final payment in January  2018.  
Our adjudicator found that Quick  Quid didnt carry out a proportionate check  when Miss F 
asked for further  credit  in September and, had it done so, was likely to find out that she was 
spending a significant proportion of her income  on gambling. And our adjudicator 
recommended that Miss Fs complaint be upheld and Quick Quid  refund the interest  and 
charges she paid to the lender from this point onwards.
Miss F agreed  with this recommendation. Quick Quid didnt and asked for the complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Quick Quid said that it could not agree that it was irresponsible  in lending to Miss F because
since 1st March 2015, QuickQuid implemented [an] affordability  review, which  involved  
collecting and validating  income and expense details from customers, in line with the 
[Financial Conduct  Authority] FCA Handbook. As such, we believe Miss [F]s loans issued 
post 2015 were  affordable. Please note that we have escalated the broader concern of loans 
issued post February  2015 to your senior leadership and are in active discussion in an effort  
to reach  a resolution.
Quick Quid didnt comment  on our adjudicators  case-specific findings about the 
proportionality of its checks  or the affordability of the loan, nor did it provide any new 
information for me to consider. It said:
In response  to your assessment which recommends CashEuroNet  UK [puts right] a top up 
that was funded after March 2015, we regret to inform  you that we cannot agree to your 
recommendations. Please note that in in our prior responses we provided  detailed 
information indicating  why loan 8 and the corresponding top up were responsibly  lent to 
Ref: DRN56097952Miss [F]. Therefore, we kindly ask that you move  this case for ombudsman queue  for a final 
decision.
This Service has responded to Quick Quid on this generic  argument  directly and through  
earlier final decisions. So I am not going to address this point here,  though I have considered 
it alongside everything else in making  my decision.  
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Miss Fs complaint and what both parties  have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Miss F borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in 
mind the rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  I would 
expect a lenders affordability  assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not quoting the 
specific regulations  here because, as before, I would expect Quick Quid to be conversant 
with these through previous ombudsman  decisions,  particularly recent decisions, which set 
these out in detail.) 
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
I understand that when Miss F applied for her eighth  loan, she told Quick  Quid  that her 
income was £2,600 and that her expenses of £1,450 were unchanged  from its last record of 
April 2016. Quick Quid says that it checked  Miss Fs credit  file and calculated a (I assume 
monthly) disposable income of £1,082, which is not far off her stated disposable monthly 
income.  And, based on these checks, it found the loan to be affordable  for her. 
Our adjudicator found that Quick  Quids checks were  proportionate for the initial  loan of 
£300, given Miss Fs stated financial situation, the amount of the loan, and that there had 
been a break of about a year and a half since her previous  loan had closed. But, they found  
Ref: DRN56097953that Quick Quid ought to have done  more when  Miss F asked for almost  three  times  that 
amount a couple of weeks later without having repaid any of the original principal. While 
Quick Quids checks were  enough  for the initial lending, given the circumstances of the 
further advance, it ought to have gathered a more  comprehensive view of Miss Fs 
circumstances and sought some independent verification of these. 
It seems  Miss F struggled to repay her previous loan  shed paid late fees and set up a 
repayment plan,  finally closing her loan in January  2016. I havent seen anything to suggest  
that her personal and financial circumstances had changed substantially since  her last 
recorded income and expenditure in April 2016.  But Quick  Quid has pointed out that there 
was a substantial  break  of 594 days between Miss F repaying this loan and taking out her 
final loan. Given the length of time between Miss Fs previous  loan closing and her applying 
for more credit, I think its fair that Quick Quid treated  Miss F as it would a new customer. 
And so I agree  with our adjudicator that the checks it carried  out when Miss F asked for her 
eighth loan were proportionate.
I also agree  with our adjudicator that when Miss F asked for a substantial amount of further 
credit two weeks later, Quick Quid ought to have  been concerned about the risk to Miss F of 
her not managing to make her repayments for this loan in a sustainable manner. And it 
ought to have put together  a clearer picture  of her finances before agreeing to lend to her. 
As our adjudicator explained, at that time Miss F was spending a significant  proportion of her 
income on gambling. And they found that it was likely Quick  Quid would have learnt about 
this, had it carried out proportionate  checks.  As mentioned, Quick  Quid  didnt comment on 
this finding in its response to our adjudication. Having thought about everything,  I think its 
likely Quick Quid would have found out about Miss Fs gambling spend had it enquired 
further into her circumstances when she applied for her advance.  The scale of this spending 
rendered any amount of further credit unaffordable and, as a responsible lender, Quick Quid 
wouldnt have agreed to lend to her again.
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Quick Quid was irresponsible  to lend to Miss F when she asked for further credit in 
September 2017. In order to put her back in the position she would have been in, had it not 
agreed further credit, Quick Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges agreed  after this point;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Fs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
It seems  from Miss Fs account records that Quick Quid  wrote  off some of the balance  of her 
seventh loan,  which had been granted in September 2010. However, as mentioned above, 
given the gap in their lending relationship  and that I think it was fair for Quick Quid  to treat 
Miss F as a new customer  when considering the risk to her of meeting  repayments, by the 
same logic I dont think it would be fair in these circumstances for Quick  Quid to look to 
recover any monies written off from earlier loans through a deduction  from this refund.
Ref: DRN56097954my final decision
I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part and direct CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid to 
put things right as I have  set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5609795