K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  provided him with misinformation when he 
paid money from an account  to his credit card and that the payments didnt clear straight 
away.
 
background
Mr T says he went abroad on a holiday with his wife to celebrate  their anniversary. Whilst 
away he went online to send money  from his Nationwide current  account to his Nationwide 
credit card account so that he would have enough money to book a luxury  hotel. He made 
the transfer and says he got a message from Nationwide saying it was complete and the 
money had been  sent and should appear today. That was misleading as when he spoke to 
Nationwide he was told it would take a few days for the money  to reach  the card. As the 
money wasnt credited  for four days he couldnt  make a hotel booking and he says they lost 
out on the whole reason for being  away. He also had to make long calls to Nationwide  and 
go into branches when  he returned. He wants £3,500  compensation for the stress  and 
aggravation caused, time consumed, the wasted holiday  and opportunity, his call charges, 
flight expenses,  having to stay at a lesser  quality hotel and for the problems this caused with 
his wife. He says a similar  thing happened on another second payment a few weeks later. 
Nationwide said in its final responses that Mr T made a payment from his current  account  on 
Friday 1 December  2017 which was credited to his credit card account  on Monday 4 
December 2017.  And a second payment made  a few weeks  later on Saturday  23 December 
2017 was credited on Wednesday 27 December 2017. The message Mr T received after 
making his payments referred to the balance of his current account from which  hed made 
the payments  from and not the credit card account to which the money  was sent. Itd told 
him payments would debit his current account the same day but they will not credit his credit  
card account  until the next working  day. The crediting of both payments had been delayed  
by weekends and bank holidays. This was set out in the information on the back  of his 
statements and can be found on its website. Itd increased his credit card credit  limit on 2 
December 2017  to ensure he was able to pay the hotel bill and wasnt affected  by any 
misunderstanding. Its also agreed to pay his phone  charges from abroad. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said:
The message  Nationwide sent Mr T caused  him confusion. It couldve been  clearer  in 
stating which account the available balance referred to. But it hadnt misinformed him 
about the timescales of transferring money. 
The terms and conditions of the credit card account say the customer must  allow  
sufficient time for the chosen payment  to reach  the account and payment methods 
and timings can be found on the back of statements. And a customer must not 
intentionally make  payments  placing  the credit card account  in credit. 
When Mr T called  Nationwide  he was told it would  take 1 to 2 working days  for the 
money to be credited  to his credit  card account.  And he was told the available 
balance referred  to in the message was that of his current account from which the 
money had been debited.
Ref: DRN58629162The payments  Mr T made  into his credit card account were all credited within the 
correct timescales set out in Nationwides terms and conditions and on the back  of 
his credit card statements.
Nationwide acted  in line with the terms and conditions  and it hasnt  made an error. 
Its for Nationwide to decide if it wishes to compensate Mr T for his call costs as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr T doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says a number of 
Nationwide staff in some of its branches agree with him that the message was confusing.  
And a barrister hes consulted says its paragraphs  contradict each  other. The message said 
his account would be credited the next time he logged in. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided  detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Mr T moved  money  from his Nationwide Flex Direct current  account to his Nationwide Select 
Credit Card  account. Hes unhappy with the time it took for the money to be credited to and 
be available on his credit  card account and with the content of a message he received after 
carrying out the transfers. 
What I must consider is whether Nationwide has acted  in line with its relevant terms and 
conditions. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ts Flex Direct current account say, amongst other things, 
that internal transfers to another Nationwide account will normally arrive  at the recipients  
bank immediately. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ts credit card account say, amongst other things, that he 
must allow sufficient time for payments to reach his account and payments only take effect 
when they are cleared. They also say the methods  and timings  of payments are set out on 
the back of his statement. The information on the back  of the statements says a payment 
facility can be set up from a Nationwide current account and payments from it will usually  be 
credited to the credit card account on the same  day. And payments made by debit card will 
usually be credited to the credit card account  the next working day. It also notes that a 
working day is Monday  to Friday. But Saturday, Sunday and bank holidays are not working 
days.
I think these terms were  adequately brought to Mr Ts attention. And although I can 
understand why he mightve anticipated  his two payments would have arrived more  quickly 
than they did, I think  Nationwide handled them within the timescales  set out in its terms and 
conditions. 
The simple  fact is that nowhere in the terms and conditions  does Nationwide  guarantee that 
payments will be credited to the credit card account  on the same day theyre  made or in any 
particular timescale. They  say payments from a current account  will normally  and usually 
be credited immediately or on the same day and from a debit card on the next working day.
Ref: DRN58629163Mr T also complains  that the message Nationwide sent him after carrying out his transfers 
wasnt clear.  That message said Your transfer has been sent and will normally be credited 
today. This will show  on your recent  transactions and balances  on the next working  day. 
Although this message doesnt  refer to a particular account I think it should be reasonably  
apparent that it relates to the transfer just made  by the customer  from the current  account.
And in so far as it relates, or can be interpreted to relate, to the receiving credit  card account 
it still says the money will normally be credited today and will show on other records the 
next working day. Again Nationwide  gives no guarantee as to when the money will actually  
be credited to and available  on the credit card account.
Mr T primarily complains  about a transfer  he made  when on holiday abroad  on Friday 1 
December 2017  which was received in his credit  card account, after the weekend,  on the 
next working day, Monday  4 December 2017. Although  this mayve been late in Mr Ts eyes  
I dont think on balance  that it was credited to his credit  card account unreasonably slowly, 
late or outside the time limits  set out in the terms and conditions.
Similarly the transfer he made on Saturday  23 December 2017 was credited  onto his credit 
card account  on Wednesday 27 December 2017 which was the next working  day after the 
weekend, Christmas Day and Boxing Day bank  holidays. Again  I dont  think  on balance  that 
was unreasonable or outside  the time limits indicated in the terms and conditions.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can reasonably conclude  Nationwide  has made  
an error or failed to carry out these transfers  in line with its applicable terms and conditions  
I realise my conclusions will come as disappointment to Mr T. And although I recognise his 
strength of feeling  and frustration I dont think I can fairly or reasonably  require Nationwide  to 
do any more than its already offered to do, including paying him £3,500, or any, 
compensation as hed like.
Overall I think  the adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5862916