K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him two packaged  bank 
accounts, the first called a Silver account  and the second called a Platinum account. 
Mr B paid monthly fees for both packaged accounts and received several potential benefits,  
including some insurance policies, in return. He thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the 
fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold either account to him.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Bs case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr B and Lloyds have told us or sent us about it, and Ive decided  not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr B banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us some  information from its 
records, which I believe to be reliable, which shows that: 
Mr B opened a fee-free account in 2011
Lloyds sold him the Silver account, for which it charged a fee, in 2014
Lloyds sold him the Platinum account,  for which it charged a higher fee than for the 
Silver account, in 2015
in 2017, he changed back to a fee-free account,  which he then closed.
Mr B seems  to have accepted this account  history, and I have taken it to be correct.
Mr B has given  us quite a succinct  description  of his complaint.  Hes said:
I was upgraded  without my knowledge.
I went into a branch to speak to an advisor  regarding my account and was discussing
savings options  as I wanted to save my mortgage  deposit. The advisor  told me I also 
needed to think  about my credit score as I was thinking of getting a mortgage,  she told 
me one of the quickest ways to improve my credit rating was via a PBA, as I didnt fully 
understand what this was I went ahead and have since found  out this not to be the 
case. The insurances didnt fit my needs  and were  a waste of money.
Lloyds has told us that it sold the Silver account  to Mr B during a meeting at one of its 
branches, but it sold the Platinum account  online. I think  this information is correct, so it 
seems to me that Mr Bs description  of his complaint applies  mainly to the way Lloyds sold 
Ref: DRN53526212the Silver  account.  Mr B has not said a great  deal about the way Lloyds sold him the 
Platinum account,  but he has told us that Lloyds upgraded him without his knowledge, and 
that hes not sure why.
So from what both parties have said, I think its highly likely  that Lloyds sold the Silver  
account to Mr B when  he visited  one of its branches and that it sold the Platinum account to 
him online. I have  therefore considered the complaint on this basis and I have looked into 
the two events separately. 
 
the Silver  account
Lloyds and Mr B have agreed  that Lloyds personally  recommended the Silver account to 
him. This meant that Lloyds had to check that the account was appropriate  for Mr Bs 
circumstances and tell him about  its costs and benefits clearly and fairly,  so he could decide  
if he wanted it. 
When Lloyds sold the account to Mr B, its potential benefits included travel insurance,  car 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. Although Mr B has told us that he now thinks 
he had no need  for these  benefits, Lloyds has checked its records  which  show  that he used 
the breakdown  service  several times, with the first occasion being shortly after Lloyds sold 
him the account;  and registered  some  mobile  phones for insurance cover. It has also shown 
that Mr B travelled abroad from time-to-time.  So, it seems to me that Mr B had a potential  
need for some of the benefits the Silver account  offered,  and I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to recommend  it to him. 
I also think Lloyds must  have told Mr B about  these benefits, otherwise he would not have 
been able to use them, so I dont think it upgraded Mr B without his knowledge. I also think 
it probably told Mr B about the monthly fees, as these would appear on his statements and I 
dont think Lloyds could  have hidden them from him during the meeting. And nor have I seen 
anything to make me think that Lloyds told Mr B he couldnt  keep  his fee-free account, I think  
its far more likely that it gave him a choice to keep it or switch  to the Silver account. 
Mr B is right to say that having a packaged bank account was unlikely  to improve his credit 
score. Managing  an account well, (for example, by staying within an overdraft limit), can 
improve a score, but the type of account  a person holds  is unlikely to make a difference. I 
accept that Lloyds may well have  discussed this with Mr B during the meeting, particularly as 
he mentioned wanting  to apply for a mortgage,  but I doubt it told him the Silver account itself 
would improve his score. 
 . 
So, although  I cant be certain that Lloyds  did everything right for Mr B when it sold him the 
Silver account, I think it made a reasonable recommendation, told him about the accounts 
main features and allowed him a choice to switch or to keep his fee-free account. I dont 
think that Lloyds  misled Mr B about  his credit  score or mis-sold the Silver account to him.
I also understand from some of Lloyds records that for a short  time just before Mr B bought  
the Platinum account, he also had an additional product called Club  Lloyds. This provided  
some additional  benefits, such as potentially  cheaper mortgages and overdrafts. Neither 
party has given us many  details about the way Lloyds sold this to Mr B. Customers usually 
had to opt in to buy it, and I think its very likely that Mr B did this, although I accept that as 
he held it for only a short period he may no longer remember much about  it. I havent  seen 
sufficient evidence for me to think that Lloyds  mis-sold Club Lloyds to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN53526213the Platinum account 
As Im satisfied that Lloyds sold this account  to Mr B online, I dont think it could have done  
so without his knowledge, as he would  have had to actively buy the account. 
When Lloyds sold packaged  accounts to its customers online, it did so without making 
personal recommendations, so it didnt have to check if an account was right for a 
customers needs. It did, however, have  to give customers a choice and tell them fairly and 
clearly about an accounts  benefits  and costs, so they could decide if they wanted it. 
Although I cant tell for sure exactly what online screens Mr B saw when Lloyds sold him the 
Platinum account  in 2015, I think its highly  likely  that they would have told him about  the 
accounts benefits. After  all, Lloyds was trying to sell the account to Mr B, and it would have 
been in its own best interest  to tell him what he could gain by buying it. 
The Platinum account offered some  similar benefits to the Silver account,  but they were 
sometimes wider  in range. For example, one of the benefits of the Platinum account was that 
it offered worldwide travel insurance, whereas the policy that came with the Silver account 
only covered Europe. I understand at the time in question, Mr B was travelling both inside 
and outside Europe, and I think he may have found  the geographically  broader travel 
insurance policy attractive. I also think he may well still have  been  interested in the mobile 
phone insurance  and car breakdown cover. And, for similar  reasons as for the Silver 
account, Im confident  that Lloyds online system would have told Mr B bow much  the 
Platinum account  would  cost him. 
So, although  again I cant be certain  that Lloyds got everything right for Mr B, I dont think it 
mis-sold the Platinum account to him. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about 
Lloyds Bank  Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5352621