K822xComplaint
Mrs T complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) has treated her 
unfairly when considering  a claim under her buildings  insurance  policy.
Background 
Mrs Ts complaint has been  brought to us by a representative and references I make to her 
include those of her representative.  References  I make to LV also include agents  acting on 
its behalf.
Mrs T experienced a burst pipe at her property in 2013 and made a claim on her buildings 
insurance policy to cover  the damage. Unhappy with how LV offered  to settle the claim she 
raised a complaint with this service in 2016.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators and he made a number of key 
comments and recommendations. He explained  the different  options  LV had available to it in 
terms of settling or resolving the claim. He also recommended LV recalculate  its costs  for 
electrical works.
Both Mrs T and LV accepted the recommendations and the case closed with the expectation 
that LV would comply with what had been  recommended. Mrs T got back in contact with us 
in March 2019 and told us that it hadnt and she raised a new complaint about this with us.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, explaining that he wouldnt be 
reconsidering issues addressed by that previous complaint but he would look at LVs actions  
since the previous  complaint in March  2017.  He concluded, in summary:
As Mrs T had made her own arrangements for the electrical  work to be started in 
breach of policy terms and conditions LV had been denied the opportunity to have its 
own contractor inspect  the damage. Because of this, he didnt think LV needed to 
pay any more than the £5,000 it had agreed to.
He didnt think LV needed to pay for the additional contents that hadnt been 
presented at the time of the original claim in 2013
He said LV had caused some delays on the claim and should pay £150 for these but 
it wasnt responsible  for all the delays 
Mrs T wasnt happy with this and asked  an ombudsman  to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise Mrs T is 
likely to be disappointed  so Ill explain  my reasoning.
Like the investigator, I wont be revisiting  the issues covered by the previous complaint but 
will instead  focus my findings on what happened since our conclusions were  explained to 
Mrs T and LV in March 2017.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ts insurance policy   in line with most others  explain 
what is and isnt covered  by the policy. They also detail certain duties and expectations the 
Ref: DRN54934632consumer must fulfil and LV will only provide  cover  if they do. In reaching  my decision,  Ill be 
keeping those things  in mind together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Ill deal with what I consider the main points of the complaint to be in turn.
The electrical wiring  work and the underfloor heating
LV originally estimated, by the size of the area impacted, the work that was required to 
address the electrical wiring problems. It made a cash offer of £3,500 in May 2017  in 
settlement of this part of the claim. Mrs T wasnt happy with this having obtained some 
significantly more expensive estimates  of her own. 
After some negotiation, later the same  month  LV agreed to increase the offer to £5,000.  It 
also said as an alternative to that cash  offer,  it would  be happy to arrange  for one of its 
contractors to visit the property and provide a detailed  estimate  for the work required.  It also 
said that it would review things further if this work, once  completed, didnt rectify the 
problems with the underfloor heating if it could  be identified  these problems  were  as a result 
of the burst  pipe in 2013.
Mrs T initially didnt  respond.  Approximately  six months later, in November 2017, she let LV 
know she wasnt happy with this offer. Throughout December 2017 and January 2018 LV 
reiterated the offer a number of times  but Mrs T didnt accept either of the options put 
forward by LV.
In March 2018, she agreed  to let a contractor  visit the property to assess the extent of the 
remedial electrical  work.  Its clear  from LVs notes it made a number of attempts to arrange 
the visit between  March 2018 and May 2018 but didnt hear back  from Mrs T. 
Because of what Ive explained above, during  this period I dont think LV was responsible  for 
the delays in this part of the claim progressing.
Eventually in October 2018 Mrs T made contact with LV but it then took LV until January 
2019 to respond  to her. I think  LV should have responded quicker and I consider it 
responsible for this part of the delay.  
In January 2019 Mrs T let LV know she had arranged for the electrical works to be started 
herself as she was concerned they might  be dangerous. Ive looked  at the policy  and one of 
the terms states:
You or any other person must not, without our permission:
Make  your own arrangements for repair or replacement
From this I think  its clear Mrs T was required to seek  LVs permission before any work 
relating to the claim was started. I would also note this is a common  term across insurance  
policies of this nature.  And while I acknowledge Mrs T might  have been concerned  about  the 
wiring I must also keep in mind that the majority  of the delays in the claims progress were  
not LVs responsibility.  Ive not seen any evidence  Mrs T sought LVs permission or informed 
it of her intended actions  before she commenced the work herself.  
I know that Mrs T later said that only a small amount of work had been undertaken. But in 
undertaking any work without LVs permission, she wasnt complying with the requirements 
of the policy. And LV wasnt  able to fully assess the work,  obtain  an accurate estimate for 
what was required and make an appropriately  revised offer if necessary. 
Ref: DRN54934633And because of this, I dont consider  it would  be fair and reasonable for me to tell LV to 
increase its offer.  Im satisfied, given  what Ive described above,  that the £5,000 LV has 
offered is fair in the circumstances.  
The additional damaged contents
Some of Mrs Ts contents were damaged by the pipe bursting  in 2013 and LV made  a 
settlement to cover this. Subsequently,  Mrs T said there were further items she wished to 
claim for that hadnt  been covered by the previous settlement.  
In 2017, after the previous claim, LV asked Mrs T to provide  a list of the additional contents 
and allow  it to undertake an inspection. But Mrs T didnt do this and it wasnt  until March 
2018 that she did. LV then made a number of attempts to arrange an appointment for the 
inspection to take place but it was only able to do this at the end of May 2018.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont consider LV responsible for these delays in this part of 
the complaint  progressing.
After LV undertook the inspection in May 2018  it was slow to provide its report and to let 
Mrs T know what it had decided,  not doing this until January 2019. I think it should  have 
done this quicker  so I consider it responsible for this delay in this part of the claim 
progressing.
When considering  whether  LV should cover the claim for the additional contents, I need to 
keep in mind the inspection  it undertook  in May 2019 was some six years after the original 
damage in 2013.  
When LVs agent undertook the inspection it said:
All listed items were showing signs of water marks, staining and blistering.  Whilst 
this is not consistent  with a recent  event  it is not possible to pinpoint this to a 
particular incident  that may have taken place years  before
Because of this, LV declined to cover the additional  items. From  what LVs agent said, I 
accept the items seemed to have suffered historic water damage but Im not persuaded 
theres sufficient evidence to conclude that its more likely than not the damage  occurred as 
a direct result of the pipe burst six years before. And because of that I dont think  LV acted 
unreasonably when it declined the claim for the additional contents.
Service
I know Mrs T wasnt happy  with the attitude of LVs representatives but Ive not seen any 
evidence in the file which leads me to conclude that they were rude or unprofessional.
Overall
This claim  was undoubtedly drawn  out and took longer than was necessary. But for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I think LV was only responsible for some  of this. I think LV 
should pay Mrs T £150 in recognition of the impact of the delays it was responsible for.
Ref: DRN54934634My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance 
Company limited to pay Mrs T £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493463