K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about their buy-to-let  mortgage lender NRAM Limited.
They complain that NRAM Limited:
-has offered no new interest  rate products to them since the collapse of Northern  
Rock. As a result two of their buy-to-let  mortgages  are trapped on NRAMs standard  
variable rate (SVR);
-sets its SVR at an unfairly  high level and is quick to pass on increases in Bank of 
England base rate, but slow to pass on decreases;
-has put no plan in place to help them move their mortgages to another  lender  who 
can offer a more  competitive rate of interest.
This complaint has been managed by Mrs B throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs B borrowed around £120,000 from Northern  Rock in 2006  for 25 years  
(Mortgage A) to buy a rental property. Two years later Mr and Mrs B borrowed £140,000 
over 23 years (Mortgage  B) to purchase another rental property. Both Mortgage A and 
Mortgage B are interest only loans.
Mortgages A and B were  taken out with Northern  Rock before it was nationalised  in 2008. 
The loans were  then transferred  to NRAM. In this decision Ive referred to NRAM as Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage lender  for ease  of reference. Im conscious that at times during events 
being complained about here, their loans were still owned by the predecessor lender, 
Northern Rock. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that the mortgages have been stuck  on NRAMs SVR for years.  
They say they cant move their mortgages to another lender, offering a more  competitive rate 
of interest,  because the properties dont have  much equity in them.  In January 2019 Mr and 
Mrs B complained to NRAM about this. 
NRAM gave its final response  to their complaint on 30 January  2019. It said it hadnt  made  
any new products or further lending available to any mortgage customers since  2008 but it 
had never  guaranteed that it would. NRAM said it didnt have to pass  on all movements to 
Bank of England  base rate onto its SVR because this rate isnt intended to operate  as a 
tracker rate. NRAM was satisfied that its SVR had been correctly  applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  loans. It also said its SVR sits comfortably when 
compared to its contemporaries similar reversionary rates.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with NRAMs response and brought  their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into the rates  that had applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgages since their 
last fixed rate products had expired. He didnt think  the complaint should succeed.  He 
thought that the SVR had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage  
and that the SVR didnt have to track Bank of England base rate.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators findings. Mrs B replied to say, in summary:
-she feels left for many  years  without financial help, either by NRAM keeping  her rates  
low or by it helping  her to reduce the balances of her mortgage loans. It should do 
more so she can get access to a more competitive interest rate with another  lender;
Ref: DRN55062682-she didnt want our investigator to focus  on the terms and conditions of her 
mortgages, but the moral situation and whether she and Mr B have been treated  
fairly;
-as far as shes concerned, Northern Rock broke the terms and conditions of the 
mortgages when  they went bust and they were  proven no longer fit to trade in the 
financial arena . 
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to reach  a final decision  on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to say I dont  underestimate Mrs Bs strength  of feeling about this complaint. Im 
conscious that this is a long running issue and that her frustration over the situation  has built 
up over a number of years.  
NRAM has given us its consent for us to look at Mr and Mrs Bs concerns from 2008 when 
Northern Rock collapsed  and it stopped offering  new products. 
Its clear that Mrs B has been unhappy  with NRAM for some time. The comments  that Mrs B 
makes about what could and should be done  to help mortgage holders in positions similar 
to theirs are arguments that are familiar to me. Mrs B has made observations about Northern 
Rocks lending practices before the financial crisis, and asked about what wider  actions 
could be now be taken  to help people trapped on SVRs with closed book lenders.  
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up to resolve things quickly  and as a free 
alternative to the courts. It is my role to look at individual  complaints brought against financial  
businesses and to determine whether I think a business has acted fairly and reasonably  in 
all the specific circumstances of that individual complaint. If Mrs B is concerned  about  wider 
industry issues, such as malpractice within the banking industry,  she may wish to escalate 
this matter to the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  or to her Member  of 
Parliament (MP).
Im conscious that Mrs B has expressed  frustration  that our investigator  focused on the 
terms of her mortgage agreements, and NRAMs contractual obligations rather  than what  
she sees as its wider  moral duty to her and its other  mortgage customers. For the same 
reasons already explained by our investigator, it is important for me to focus  on the terms of 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage loans. These contractual agreements were the basis  upon which  
Mr and Mrs B and Northern Rock entered into these mortgage loans.  If Northern Rock,  or 
NRAM, has failed to operate these mortgages  as they were  intended to run, that would be 
clearly unreasonable  and something that should now be put right.  
is it fair that NRAM isnt offering any new interest rate products? 
Mrs Bs complained that her mortgages are trapped  with NRAM. Mr and Mrs B have said 
they dont have much equity in these properties  and as a result theyve been unable  to find a 
new lender who is willing to take on this borrowing. And because  NRAM is a closed book 
lender, which  is choosing not to make any new interest rates available  to them,  the 
mortgages are stuck on NRAMs SVR. In essence,  Mr and Mrs Bs dilemma is twofold. 
They cant  go to another lender and they cant get a better rate where they are.
Ref: DRN55062683Typically if Mrs B was unhappy  with the rate of the SVR shed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with her lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there isnt a 
contractual barrier,  such as an early repayment charge (ERC), that would prevent these 
mortgages being moved. However, there are other practical barriers,  brought  about by falling 
house prices and a shift in lending appetite since the financial crisis. This means that Mr and 
Mrs B have struggled to remortgage these two rental properties  with a new lender. 
Mrs Bs unhappy that NRAM  isnt making  new interest rate products available to its 
customers. NRAMs told Mrs B that its not an active lender and it isnt offering any new 
interest rates or further lending to any of its customers. NRAMs explained  to us that there 
are further  reasons for this. Its said there  are competition laws which  prevent a government-
owned lender  being  in direct competition  with other banks.  For this reason it cant offer new 
rates. And, to that extent,  its not treating Mr and Mrs B any differently to any of its other 
customers. 
Ive looked carefully  at Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  agreements. Theres  nothing  in the 
mortgage agreements  that says they were entitled to a new rate  and thats also true of 
most other lenders mortgage agreements too. Theres also nothing  in the regulators rules 
that requires NRAM to offer new interest rates. 
Through no fault of their own,  Mr and Mrs B have ended up with a closed  book lender, 
owned by the government, that doesnt offer new rates. I can see why this feels  unfair to 
them. But NRAM is their lender, and legitimately so. Its explained  why it is unable to offer 
new interest rates to any customers, including Mr and Mrs B. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs 
Bs frustration, I dont uphold this part of their complaint.
is the mortgage interest being charged to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage unfairly high? 
Ive looked at the rate of interest thats been  applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgages  since the 
start of these loans.  
Both Mortgage A and Mortgage  B have been  on their lenders SVR since the fixed  rate 
expired on these mortgage loans in May and July 2008 respectively.  
For the majority of this period, from March 2009  to 2019, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgages  have  
been on interest rates ranging  between  4.79% and 5.04%. 
Mrs Bs pointed  out to us that NRAMs SVR hasnt  tracked Bank of England base rate. The 
margin, or differential, between Bank  of England base rate and NRAMs SVR has not 
remained the same. In particular, as Bank of England base rates  fell to record low levels,  
NRAMs SVR didnt  fall at the same  rate. Ive looked  at the mortgage  documentation to see 
whether NRAM ever said that it would. 
There arent any guarantees  or references in the mortgage documentation that say the SVR 
will track Bank of England  base rate. In Clause 7.1 of Northern Rocks Mortgage  Offer 
General Conditions Edition 1 (07/2001), it says NRAM can reduce  the SVR at any time. But 
it doesnt make a commitment to do so if prevailing interest  rates fall. Neither does it say that 
the SVR must track Bank of England base rate. 
Clause 7.2 lists a number of reasons why the lender may choose to increase SVR.  The 
reasons given include a general  trend  to increase  interest  rates on mortgages generally, for 
Ref: DRN55062684good commercial reasons  and to maintain a prudent level of profitability. But again  there  is 
no commitment  to track Bank of England base rates. In essence, the variation clauses within  
the terms of the mortgages are broadly drafted and allow NRAM to decide  whether to pass  
on an increase or decrease in prevailing interest rates,  and to choose how quickly it wants  to 
make any change to its SVR.
Ive also thought about whether NRAM has used the terms of agreement  to apply an 
unreasonably high level of interest  to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgages  over the past decade. As 
Ive said above  Mr and Mrs B have paid between 4.79% and 5.04% since  2009. From my 
wider knowledge  of the mortgage market, and especially in light of the fact these are buy-to-
let mortgage loans, I dont think this interest rate is out of line or unreasonably higher  than 
other comparable  buy-to-let lenders SVRs.  
what happens now?
Mrs B has complained that NRAM hasnt done more  to put a plan in place to help them 
move to another lender.  As our investigator has mentioned, NRAMs said that it will arrange 
for Mr and Mrs B to speak  with an independent  regulated mortgage broker to see what 
options may now be available to them to move to another  lender. I leave it to Mr and Mrs B 
to decide if this is something that they would like to take advantage of now.  
I appreciate that there have been practical barriers  that have prevented  Mr and Mrs B from 
being able to move these  mortgages elsewhere. But I dont think  these have been caused by 
events that could have been  foreseen by either NRAM or Mr and Mrs B when the mortgages  
were entered into. Overall, I dont  think NRAM has acted unfairly  in the level of its SVR or by 
not making new products available to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage loans since it became a 
closed book. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5506268