K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from the Nationwide  Building  Society  
(Nationwide) when he applied for a credit card. He was unhappy with the length of time it 
took to process  the application,  the delay, the service he received from advisors  on the 
telephone and the frustration he encountered repeatedly going through  security checks.
background
Mr M applied  online  for a credit card from Nationwide.  He had previously had a credit 
card with Nationwide,  but it was no longer  active.  Around 6 weeks later,  he rang 
Nationwide to chase  the application and says he was told there was a problem as 
Nationwides records indicated his previous credit  card account  was still open. A week 
later he received forms to complete which he did, and which  he returned. The next day 
he said he received  an identical letter  with the same  paperwork. He thought  it was an 
error and so ignored it. Hearing nothing further,  he called Nationwide,  and was passed 
from advisor to advisor, each time having to go through  the usual security validation,  
which he found tiresome and frustrating. Because of this experience  he withdrew his 
application.
Nationwide said the application hadnt proceeded  because it hadnt received the 
paperwork back. It also said that its systems wouldnt  allow  a call to be advanced  if the 
security questions were not answered correctly, and that they only asked those 
questions to prevent  fraud. Nationwide did accept that Mr M had been  passed to 
departments within their business which were  unable to assist  him, and it accepted  that 
ought not to have happened. In view of this lapse in service it apologised and offered  Mr 
M £50 by way of compensation.
Mr M disagreed rejected  the offer of compensation.  He felt it should  be increased 
substantially, and that the credit card application process should be restarted. He also 
didnt feel his complaint had been investigated fully. An investigator from this service  
looked into the complaint and recognised that there had been  a minor lapse in service.  
But, he thought  the offer of £50 was reasonable and so he didnt recommend that 
Nationwide do any more.  Mr M disagreed with our investigators view and so the matter 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decisions are based on the 
available evidence and where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory, 
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is 
more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr M feels Nationwide should  have done more  to follow up his application, but 
Nationwide have explained that their procedure is only to send out the final terms and 
conditions once an application is successful. That is their procedure  and it is not for this 
service to tell businesses how to conduct  their business. As they have followed their 
procedures I cannot say they have  acted unfairly towards Mr M.
Ref: DRN52679192Equally, as Mr M had previously held a credit  card,  a safety code had been produced 
which triggered a referral to a specialised team to carry out checks, and before the 
process moved on. I have not been able to find any evidence that Nationwide  actually 
told Mr M that he still had a credit card, but even if I accept that they did, the substance  
of the issue was not the existence  of the card, rather the need for their specialist 
department to carry out the further checks. This was Nationwides  normal  process and 
on that basis I dont  think it has done anything wrong. The delay  that occurred I think 
was reasonable  as they were following their procedures  correctly. 
Repeating security  details to each advisor would be very frustrating,  but it is a 
reasonable process in order to prevent fraud. So I cant say Nationwide  have  acted 
unfairly.
I accept Mr M returned the paperwork to Nationwide, and that he in fact received 
duplicate paperwork the next day. I have no reason to doubt  him. I also have no reason 
to doubt Nationwide when it says didnt  receive the paperwork. Its unfortunate that the 
paperwork was duplicated, and I can understand why Mr M ignored  it. But the 
duplication didnt  have any effect on the application, because Mr M had already 
completed and returned  the papers in any event. So I cant  say Nationwide have done 
anything wrong  in not proceeding with the application.
Mr M feels that our investigator hasnt dealt with his request that Nationwide  commence 
the application process afresh. But Mr M has withdrawn his application  and on that basis 
I think it correct  that Nationwide do not initiate  another application.  Mr M could of course 
make a fresh application which Nationwide would no doubt  consider.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision  but I have  come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for similar  reasons. Beyond  the minor lapse in 
service, when Mr M was passed  to the wrong departments, Im not satisfied that 
Nationwide have treated him unfairly,  so Im not going to ask it to do anything beyond  
make a compensatory  payment of £50.
my final decision
Nationwide has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Nationwide  Building  Society  
should pay £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5267919