K820x#14complaint
Mrs L and Mr C say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  with their mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs L and Mr Cs complaint in July 2019. I explained why 
I was minded not to uphold it, subject to anything further that Mrs L, Mr C or Bank of 
Scotland had to say. There was no response  to my provisional decision.
In 1993, Mrs L and Mr C applied  for a mortgage and were sold PPI at the same  time. The 
policy cost around £69 per month for a monthly  benefit of £1000. The benefit wouldve been  
paid for up to 24 months  if Mrs L and Mr C were too ill to work  and for up to 12 months per 
successful claim  for unemployment. Mrs L and Mr C were  equally covered under the policy.
Mrs L and Mr C said, in summary, they were instructed to take out PPI if they 
wanted the mortgage. They also said they didnt need or want the cover  because 
they had enough other  means to make the repayments  if they were  out of work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding this case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
My reasons  for not upholding Mrs L and Mr Cs complaint  are essentially the same  as set out 
in my provisional decision,  which Ill repeat  here.
were Mrs L and Mr C given a choice about  PPI?
Mrs L and Mr C provided us with a copy of their mortgage offer. This shows that in order 
to secure a fixed and discounted interest rate, Mrs L and Mr C needed  to arrange either  
building and contents insurance or PPI with Halifax.
Halifax was allowed to add specific conditions to their mortgage offer. But, it had to make it 
clear to Mrs L and Mr C that this was the case. Mrs L and Mr C said they were  instructed 
they had to take PPI. I cant know what was discussed with the adviser,  but it seems  to me 
that there  was the option to take either  PPI or buildings and contents insurance and still get 
the mortgage at the preferable rate. This was made clear on the mortgage offer.  
Also, Mrs L and Mr C didnt have  to have PPI at all. 
I think Mrs L and Mr C are probably  right that the advisor told them  they could only have 
this specific mortgage,  with the discounted rate if they took insurance through the Halifax. 
However, I think Mrs L and Mr C did have a choice  about it. If they didnt want  to take the 
insurance cover, they had the option  to get a mortgage offer from a different  provider  or not 
get the discount rate. I think its more  likely  though that they decided  to take PPI because  it 
Ref: DRN54438582helped them secure a mortgage  at a preferable rate (even with PPI added).  So, I cant  see 
that Halifax did anything  wrong here.
was the policy suitable?
Halifax advised Mrs L and Mr C about PPI. So they had to make  sure the policy  was right 
for them, even though  the special conditions of the mortgage meant  that they had to take 
PPI or building and contents insurance  to get the preferable  mortgage interest rate.
Looking at Mrs L and Mr Cs circumstances in 1993,  I think the policy was suitable for 
them. I say this because:
 Mrs L and Mr C were  eligible for the policy and the policy appeared affordable.  It 
was a monthly paid policy so they couldve cancelled it at any time after the fixed  
period of the mortgage without any adverse financial consequences.
Mrs L and Mr C said they were entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay through 
their work. However, I still think PPI couldve provided them  with a valuable 
benefit. It wouldve  paid out for up to 24 months  per successful claim for accident 
and sickness  and for up to 12 months  for unemployment. This was probably 
longer than their work benefits wouldve covered them  for and they couldve 
made repeated  claims under the policy. The policy wouldve paid out on top of 
their work benefits. This meant that their home  was protected  and they could use 
their work related benefits to meet their other  household expenses at what might  
be a difficult time for them  if one of them wasnt working. 
Mrs L and Mr C said they had some  rainy day savings. But, again the PPI 
wouldve allowed  them to use these to meet other household expenditure. 
Alternatively, it wouldve allowed them to keep  hold of their savings, knowing  
their home was protected.
I cant see that Mrs L or Mr C were  affected  by any of the main  limitations or 
exclusions in the policy.  So, I cant see that having more information  about these 
things wouldve changed their decision to take out PPI.
were Mrs L and Mr C given enough information?
I dont know what information Mrs L and Mr C were given about the policy  at the time 
of sale. However, even if there were some shortcomings in what  was provided,  I think  
more or better information wouldve just shown Mrs L and Mr C that the policy  was 
suitable, for the reasons  Ive explained.  So I think they still wouldve bought  PPI in 
their circumstances. So, I cant see that they have lost out because Halifax couldve 
given them clearer information. 
Ref: DRN54438583my final decision
I do not to uphold Mrs L and Mr Cs complaint for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and 
Mr C to accept  or reject  my decision before 9 October 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5443858