K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC didnt do enough to assist  them  
when their credit card was declined.  
Mr and Mrs F would  like Tesco to compensate them for the additional cost they incurred as a 
result of needing to use an alternative payment method.
background
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs F tried attempted to use their Tesco  credit  card to make  a payment 
to a third party. But the transaction was declined and their credit  card account was blocked.
When Mrs F spoke with Tesco about the declined transaction, it explained  that as no 
payment had been made against the credit card account in March  2019, the attempted  
transaction would  take the account over its limit. So the transaction  declined and the account 
was blocked.
During the call Mrs F told Tesco that she hadnt  received a statement in March  2019 so 
wasnt aware that a payment had been  due. And Mrs F was unhappy that Tesco hadnt told 
them that their account was in arrears.
Although Mrs F immediately made a payment towards their credit account,  as it was a 
Saturday this wouldnt  clear until the next working  day. So Tesco wasnt  able to remove  the 
block until at least Monday.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  be upheld. He didnt think  
that Tesco had made a mistake so didnt recommend that it refund the money that the third 
party had charged Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the investigators  recommendation.  Mr and Mrs F say they 
thought that Mrs F had paid the credit  card account in March 2019. And if the payment 
hadnt gone through, Mr and Mrs F thought that Tesco shouldve contacted them  to discuss  
their account.
Mr and Mrs F dont  think that Tesco did enough to help them and that this almost left them 
stranded. Mr and Mrs F think that Tesco shouldve removed the block  once they had made 
the payment against the credit card account  towards  the arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The crux of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint appears  to be that Tesco let them  down by not doing  
more to help them when they needed  to pay the third party.   
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs sense of frustration when Tesco declined the payment 
to the third party, I cant say that Tesco made  a mistake. The attempted payment would have 
taken their account over its credit  limit. As Mr and Mrs F hadnt paid their credit card in time, 
the account was also in arrears. So Tesco acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
account when  it applied a block to the card.
Ref: DRN55805862Given the fact that Mr and Mrs Fs credit  card account was already in arrears, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Tesco to say that it wouldnt  increase  Mr and Mrs Fs credit  limit to 
allow the payment  to the third party to go through.
Mrs F contacted Tesco about the declined transaction  late on a Saturday. This meant that 
even though Mrs F then made a payment to Tesco, the funds  werent applied  to their card 
account until the next working day. So I cant  criticise Tesco  for saying that they couldnt do 
anything about  the block until at least Monday when the collections team would be working. 
When Mrs F spoke with Tesco in early April 2019, she said that she hadnt received  an email 
about the statement for March 2019 so didnt know that a payment was due. Tesco told Mr 
and Mrs F that it could see that someone  had signed in to the online service on 9 March  
2019. Mr and Mrs F say that Mrs F would have logged on to make a payment  which  then 
didnt go through  for some reason. However Tesco doesnt have any record  of a payment 
attempt being  made on 9 March 2019.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F usually settle the credit card account  each  month by making a 
manual payment but I cant reasonably find that Tesco failed to process an online payment 
in March 2019. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs F would have liked Tesco  to tell them sooner that theyd  
missed their payment. But as far as Im aware,  the missed payment would only have been 
noted when Mr and Mrs Fs next credit  card statement was generated. As the next statement 
was generated  after the payment to the third party was declined, I cant find that Tesco did 
anything wrong.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco didnt  make a mistake so I dont  require it to pay Mr and    
Mrs F any compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5580586