K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to her. 
Miss O wants Sunny  to refund the interest  and charges that she paid and remove  any 
negative information  about the loans from her credit  file.
background
Miss O took out one running credit  agreement and 20 instalment loans with Sunny between 
October 2014 and November  2016. For the purposes of my decision I will refer to the loans 
as loans one to 21. 
Miss O says that she was borrowing money  from various short term lenders and was 
struggling financially.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Os complaint  be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans six to 21. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges Miss O had paid on the affected  loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six onwards entirely from Miss Os 
credit file. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that the monthly  repayments  
represented less than 7% of Miss Os declared monthly  income of £1,850.  And Sunny says 
that the level of Miss Os monthly disposable  income  demonstrated that she could afford the 
loans. 
Sunny said that it took account  of the fact that Miss O was repaying more than one loan at 
the same  time when  assessing affordability.  Sunny said that it offers customers  a flexible 
product allowing them to take out up to four loans at any one time.
As Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation, the complaint has come  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Miss O, the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and 
the relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  carried guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss O could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN58606172With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss O could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
Miss O didnt  disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to five. Because  of this, 
I dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Miss O had 
with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering her other loans.
loans six to 21
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss O with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Miss O any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Os case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan six. I say this because the overall  pattern of Miss Os borrowing suggested that shed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Ref: DRN58606173Loan six was the sixth loan that Miss O had taken out in about eight months. The amount  
that Miss O was borrowing had remained had remained constant - £500 each time. 
Although Miss O was scheduled to repay each loan over a number of months, she had been  
repaying each  one in under a month.  I consider this behaviour shouldve caused some  
concerns for Sunny as it might have been an indication that Miss O was borrowing 
elsewhere to juggle  repayments. 
Miss O then applied for a new loan either  the next day or within  a few days  of repaying the 
earlier loan. I think that Sunny  should have realised that it was more likely than not Miss O 
was reliant on short  term lending and needed to borrow further to fill the hole repaying her 
previous loans was leaving  in her finances.  And that taking on more  debt wasnt  sustainable.
Although there were  some gaps in Miss Os loans, I dont consider that they were  significant 
enough to mean that Miss O had moved on from whatever situation had required her 
previous lending. 
In the final month of taking out loans  with Sunny, Miss O borrowed a total of £1,000 and still 
hadnt repaid the loan that she took out in mid-October 2016 for £600. Miss O wasnt  making 
any real inroads into what he owed Sunny and her indebtedness was being  prolonged. This 
meant that Miss O had been  paying  large  amounts of interest  to, in effect; service a debt to 
Sunny over a long period.
I think that Miss O lost out because Sunny continued to lend money  from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Os indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Os ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Miss Os complaint about loans six to 21. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss O paid on loans six to 21;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest on loans 19 and 20;
Ref: DRN58606174if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  any outstanding principal balance  due before 
paying the remaining balance (if there is any) to Miss O**;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 21 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 21 should be removed from        
Miss Os credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss O a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends  
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding principal balance, it must  do so after deducting 
tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Sunny of 
its obligation to treat Miss O reasonably and sympathetically in any repayment discussions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5860617