K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited turned down his claim 
under his pet insurance policy. 
My references to Red Sands include its agent.
background
In November 2014 Mr P took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands. At that time 
he was aware his dog had a heart  murmur. The vets clinical records show  that a grade  2 
heart murmur had been detected both in November 2016 and also in December 2014.
In 2018 Mr P took his dog to the vet because he was coughing and retching. The vet listened 
to the dogs chest and detected a grade 5/6 heart murmur. The vet thought the cough  
sounded like a heart disease cough and gave the dog heart  medication. This didnt resolve  
the cough so the dog was referred to a specialist  vet. 
The specialist vet concluded that the dog had degenerative mitral valve disease,  but said he 
wasnt in cardiac heart failure. The vet didnt know what was causing  the cough. If the cough 
didnt settle in two to four weeks then the vet suggested looking in his airways.  
Mr P made a claim to Red Sands  for the costs of the investigations. Red Sands  turned down 
the claim.  It said the investigations were for the dogs heart murmur, which  was pre-existing. 
It put an exclusion on the policy for all claims with respect to heart  conditions  with effect from 
10 November 2016 (the policys start date).
Mr P complained because  the investigations  were  into the cough, which hadnt resolved. He 
said that in frustration he cancelled his policy. Red Sands then agreed to pay part of the 
claim, for the aspects it said related to the cough. It said it would agree to reinstate his policy 
within a 14 day period, but Mr P missed its deadline.  Red Sands wouldnt then agree to 
reinstate the policy. He came to us.
Our investigator concluded Red Sands  had reached a fair claims decision,  and said it didnt 
have to reinstate  the policy. Mr P strongly disagreed so the complaints come to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the email thread that Mr P 
has drawn to my attention. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
Mr Ps policy  doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, which includes an illness that first 
showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the policy.  
Mr P accepts that he knew that his dog had a heart  murmur when he took out the Red 
Sands policy, although  he says he didnt  think it would cause a problem or hed not have 
changed insurers. He also accepts that if the vets had been investigating the dogs  heart 
murmur then Red Sands could fairly have rejected the claim as being for a pre-existing 
condition. 
Ref: DRN52874102But as I understand  it Mr Ps point is that the investigations recommended  by his vet werent  
for the dogs  heart murmur; they were for his cough.  Part of that investigation involved heart  
tests. But they didnt explain the reason for the cough. He also points out that Red Sands 
part-payment wasnt logical and actually  resulted  in a higher  payment to him than if it had 
paid just for the cough investigations. 
I think Red Sands fairly settled the claim by paying  for part of the costs.  In saying this Ive 
considered the veterinary  evidence:
The vets clinical notes  from September 2018 say:
The dog had been coughing,  and sometimes retching after coughing. He was also 
panting more after exercise. The vet heard a left heart  murmur grade  5/6 with a 
thrill. The vet had a negative tracheal pinch (a test used  to elicit a cough  and to 
check for respiratory illness). The vet thought  the cough sounded like a heart  disease  
cough. The vet couldnt hear lung crackles (a sign of a chest infection), and thought  
the heart murmur muffled other  sounds. The vet thought it was probably a heart  
related cough,  and suspected pulmonary oedema (fluid around  the lungs) but 
couldnt rule out a concurrent infection. The vet prescribed heart medications and if 
the cough was heart  related said an improvement  should  be seen within  the next few 
days. 
A few days later Mr P reported an improvement in cough  and breathing  although 
there were still episodes of retching  cough.  The chest was clear  and there  was no 
exercise intolerance.  The vet said shed reassess the dog in three weeks  time and 
suggested Mr P try decreasing the dose (of the heart medication).
When the dog was reassessed  in October 2018 - around three weeks later - Mr P 
reported that the dog was coughing more.  The vet advised the dog be referred for 
full assessment of heart/chest meds. She said there was now a cough reflex on 
tracheal pinch.  She detected a grade 4-5/6  heart murmur. She referred  the dog to a 
specialist heart  vet. 
The specialist heart vet said:
The dog presented  for investigation of a murmur  which  had been detected on a 
recent clinical examination.  He had been coughing a lot recently  and the vet was 
worried about congestive heart failure. But there  was no improvement in his signs  
on this so the doses  were reduced. 
He (the vet) diagnosed  degenerative  mitral valve disease, which affects  one or two 
valves in the heart.  The valve thickens and starts  to leak which causes the audible  
murmur that can be heard. With time, the heart enlarges and fluid starts to build up 
on the lungs (pulmonary oedema). At that point treatment to control fluid congestion 
is started. The vet didnt  think  the dog was in congestive heart failure  (CHF),  so said 
he shouldnt take one of the medications for CHF. But the vet recommended  he 
remain on the other medication  (for mitral valve disease) for life. The vet said the first 
sign of CHF that most  dogs develop is slowing on walks, followed by breathlessness 
and sometimes a cough. 
He didnt know what was causing the cough, and said it is probably multifactorial 
involving a degree of bronchial  compression  but there also may be a primary 
infectious process which we cant see on the radiographs. The vet suggested  
continuing on the heart  medication and to add in a cough suppressant. If the cough  
Ref: DRN52874103didnt settle in the next 2 to 4 weeks then the vet suggested looking down his 
airways. 
The vets section of the claim form said the claim was for heart/investigations. In a letter  
sent in support of the claim, Mr Ps usual  vet said:
The dog was first seen for systolic heart murmur which  is very common  in his breed 
and had been previously detected. She thought this was the cause of the cough and 
that the dog had developed CHF.  But after treatment for this Mr P reported the cough 
was getting worse. So the vet recommended a referral to try and clarify the cause of 
his cough. She summarised the findings of the specialist vet (as above) including  the 
vet wasnt sure why the dog was coughing  but it was not due to his heart. She said It 
therefore follows that [the dogs] cough  is not due to a pre existing condition and as 
such the investigation into his cough  the reason  for his referral  should be covered  
by his present  insurance. He was referred  to investigate his cough, NOT to stage his 
heart murmur.
Ive weighed up all the evidence. But I think Red Sands fairly concluded the claim was at 
least in part to investigate  the grade 5/6 heart murmur  that had been detected. The 
contemporaneous notes say that he was being investigated for a murmur. 
I appreciate Mr P says that the investigation was for a cough and Ive considered his vets 
comments. But the particular concern was around  a serious heart  murmur and the concern 
about that being a reason  for the cough. The evidence is that the heart murmur had been 
previously detected  and I think its fair to say it was pre-existing. 
I accept the cough  was one of the symptoms being investigated but the cough coupled  with 
the heart murmur was a cause for concern.  As the heart murmur pre-existed the policy  
I dont think its fair for Red Sands to pay the full claim. It did accept the cough (not pre-
existing) was also being  investigated  and I think its part-payment was fair. Mr P says it 
resulted in a higher payment than would have  been the case if it had properly apportioned 
the costs, but as that was in his favour  I wont  require Red Sands to make any further 
payment.
Mr P decided to cancel his policy. I understand he did this out of frustration but there was no 
obligation on Red Sands  to agree to reinstate  the policy. When making  the part-payment 
Red Sands  offered to reinstate the policy if Mr P paid the missed premiums within 14 days. 
Unfortunately Mr P missed  the date for reinstating the policy but I dont think  theres any 
basis for me fairly to require Red Sands to reinstate the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5287410