K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) 
hasn't dealt fairly with her claim when  she told it she was unhappy  with goods and services 
paid for using her credit  card account.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 2 August 2019. It said the following:
Mrs S has a credit card account with American  Express. Her husband Mr S is an additional  
card holder.  
At the relevant time Mr and Mrs S owned a sports car, which  they both used on the road and 
for occasional track days. Ill discuss in my findings  the relevance of both the ownership  of 
the car and its use.
In October  2014 it was taken to an approved garage  (garage  A) with instructions to supply 
and fit a replacement  engine, among other  things.  New engines werent available  (the 
particular model was a limited edition and some  ten years old by this time), so a 
reconditioned engine was to be used.  Mr S used the additional card on Mrs Ss account to 
pay £3,266.83  for the work,  which included  the engine. At the request of garage A, some of 
the work  was done by another garage  (garage C).
Mr and Mrs S say they had problems  with the car almost immediately, mainly due to the 
engine over-heating.  This meant the car couldnt  be used on the track without over-heating, 
and even normal road use was difficult.
Over the following months garage A undertook further work,  including replacing the 
temperature sensors and coolant  in May 2015. Following this, it was unable to find any fault 
during test drives,  but Mr and Mrs S said that the engine was still over-heating,  despite  the 
garages attempts  to fix the problem. Whilst it said it was willing to fix the problem, it couldnt 
identify what it was. Around this time Mr and Mrs S asked another  mechanic (at garage  B) to 
check the car - he found the car overheated during a test drive.
By late 2016 Mr and Mrs S contacted American  Express, saying they thought garage A 
hadnt done the work properly and that they had a claim against American Express because  
theyd paid for the work on the car with a credit card. American Express didnt accept that 
and Mr and Mrs S approached this service.
Mr and Mrs S later bought  a second hand engine and had it fitted  at a total cost of over 
£2,000. At this time,  garage B stripped  and examined the engine which was the subject of 
the work  contracted to garage A. Garage B found  that the issues with the engine overheating 
were caused  by a problem with that work  more specifically that the piston protrusion height 
had been set too low during the rebuild.
Mr and Mrs S then sold the car - they say they had to accept  less than it would have  been  
worth had the first replacement engine been fitted  properly.
American Express raised a number  of objections, both to our consideration of the complaint 
and to the merits of it. I issued my provisional  decision in December 2017 and set out why I 
Ref: DRN51059492thought I would likely uphold this complaint. American Express  didnt agree and raised  
further issues. Ill summarise here what I understand to now be resolved and what  remains  
outstanding, then deal with those  in more detail in my findings.
American Express said:
1.This service has no power  to consider complaints of this nature, since they concern 
statutory rights and could affect American  Expresss rights against  third parties.
2.This service ought to exercise discretion not to consider this type of complaint, since 
it is better dealt with by a court.
3.That it should have  the opportunity to reconsider the matter  outside of our process 
following the provision  of new evidence.
4.There wasnt the necessary connection  between its customer, Mrs S, and garage  A.
5.There was insufficient evidence of a breach of contract on the part of garage A; some 
of the work had been carried out by garage  C; and what evidence there was couldnt 
be relied on because  the engineer who supplied it had a conflict of interest.  Because  
Mr and Mrs S have  now sold the car, its not possible to inspect it further.
6.Mr and Mrs S have  now sold the car, so may receive double  recovery  if an award is 
made.
My understanding is that American Express  is no longer raising points  1-3 and that it accepts 
the matter of how it handles Mrs S request  for a refund does fall within our remit.
In relation to point  4; American Express initially said the underlying contract  was between 
Mr S and garage A, but Mr S wasnt a debtor of American Express.  Mr and Mrs S didnt 
accept that and, after further consideration, I took the view that the work on the car was done 
for the joint benefit  of Mr and Mrs S. My understanding is that American Express accepts  
this.
I believe points 5 and 6 remain outstanding and so Ill focus on them  in my provisional  
findings.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account, amongst other things, any 
relevant law. Mr and Mrs S say that garage A is in breach of contract because it hasnt done 
the work  to a satisfactory  standard, and that American Express (as the creditor) is liable to 
the same  extent as garage A would be. So Ill touch on the relevant law in respect  of those 
issues. In doing  that, Im not seeking  to apply the law in the same way a court would,  but 
indicating what I consider to be the more important law that I have to take into account. 
Garage A agreed to supply and fit a reconditioned engine,  amongst other  things. That is, it 
was providing both goods and services. At the relevant time the Supply of Goods and 
Services Act 1982 was in force. One effect  of that legislation  was that there were implied 
terms in the contract  with garage A that:
any goods provided (including,  of course,  the engine) would be of satisfactory quality; 
and
any services  would be carried out with reasonable care and skill.
Mr and Mrs Ss case is that garage A didnt do one or both of these things.  And they say that 
American Express is liable (along with the garage)  because of section 75 of the Consumer 
Ref: DRN51059493Credit Act 1974. One effect of section 75 is that, subject  to certain financial and other  limits, 
an individual who uses a credit card to pay for goods and/or services  can bring a claim 
against the card issuer  in the same  way they can bring a claim against the supplier of those 
goods or services.
In relation to the argument that section 75 doesnt apply because  Mrs S didnt have a 
contract with garage A, this is relevant because without such  a claim for breach of contract, 
section 75 cant apply  here. I understand Mr and Mrs S regarded the car as a shared asset; 
they both drove it and were both insured. The work that was carried  out was for both of them 
and was, in a sense, a joint enterprise. So, in the circumstances, American  Express has 
agreed Mrs S was effectively a party to the contract with garage  A American  Express  has, 
however, raised  another issue along similar lines; that the work undertaken was done  by 
garage C and so they are the supplier. I dont  believe that some of the work  being 
subcontracted by garage A to garage  C makes  any difference  here.  It was done at the 
request of garage  A, which remains responsible for its quality.
I must therefore consider the evidence about the quality  of the work carried out and the parts  
supplied by garage A. Mr and Mrs S had the car checked by garage B; that garage 
concluded in early 2017 that the issues  with the engine overheating were  caused by a 
problem with the work done in October  2014. Specifically, they said the piston protrusion 
height had been set too low during  the rebuild.
In addition, a mechanic  from garage  B checked the car at a track event. He explained hed 
found the car did overheat during a test drive. Both parties have seen  the reports  provided 
by the mechanic concerned, and I dont therefore need to set out the findings  in detail here. I 
do however find the reports  quite persuasive  in demonstrating that the problems with the car 
arose as a result of the work done  in October  2014.
American Express raised a number  of issues in response, and Ill deal with them briefly:
The mechanic  who inspected the engine  and tested the car on the track had 
previously been employed  by garage A and was not, therefore, independent. I agree 
that a truly independent expert would have been  preferable, but Mr and Mrs Ss 
priority at the time was to find out what was wrong with the car and to get it fixed. It 
wasnt to prepare evidence for this service to consider. The reports  from the 
mechanic at garage B are, however, the clearest evidence we have of what was 
wrong, and I see no reason to disregard his conclusions.
The car was used at speed on the track and the agreement didnt cover this. This 
particular make and model of car was specifically  designed  and marketed for track  as 
well as road use. It was built with an upgraded engine, suspension, brakes and 
steering from other models. The marketing literature even speaks of the ability  to 
remove floor mats for track use. Garage A, would  have been fully aware of the 
possibility that Mr and Mrs S would use it on the track, and most likely knew  it was 
their intention  to do so. And as an approved garage, it wouldve known that it was 
implied that any work on this type of car would  be should  be suitable for track use. I 
havent seen a separate warranty for any of the work  to undermine this conclusion.
Because the cars now been sold, they cant arrange a further  inspection.  Again, I 
agree that a full and independent inspection would have  been  helpful. But the 
evidence I have  seen  does lead me to believe that its more  likely than not that the 
problems arose  because of the work  done  in October 2014.
The sale of the car could  lead to double recovery.  I dont accept that. The cars  been 
sold after having two replacement engines, only one of which operated  properly. So, 
even if the car was sold for more than Mr and Mrs S paid for it (which they say they 
Ref: DRN51059494didnt and actually  made a loss), theyve paid for an engine that didnt  work  properly. 
They also didnt replace the engine  a second time with one of the same  standard  as 
they had arranged with garage  A.
For these reasons Im satisfied American  express should compensate Mrs S in the 
circumstances. Whilst the usual remedy for breach  of contract  is to put parties in the position  
they should be in had the contract been  fulfilled, this isnt possible here. Mr and Mrs S have 
already taken steps to replace the engine and sell on the car. And whilst  it appears not all of 
the original work was problematic, they did incur further cost of over £2,000  and were  
ultimately left with a car with an engine of a lesser standard, i.e. not a fully reconditioned 
engine by an approved garage, and so needed  to sell the car for less than it should  have  
been worth.  They also wasted money  going to track  days when the car spent most  of the 
time in the pits due to the over-heating problem.
So, in the circumstances Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable  resolution  to this complaint 
is for American Express to re-work  the account  as though the payment  hasnt  been  made.
my provisional decision
My decision  is likely to be that I uphold this complaint  and order American Express Services
Europe Limited to do the following:
1.Re-work the account to reflect the payment not having been made; this includes 
reimbursing the payment  amount to Mrs S account on the day it was made and 
reimbursing any interest or charges that wouldnt have been applied  had the payment 
not been made.
2.Should that result in a positive balance at any time, pay Mrs S interest  at 8% simple 
per year on any positive balance on the account  for the full duration the positive 
balance is on the account up until to the date of settlement.
3.Pay Mrs S the remaining positive balance once points 1 and 2 are completed.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments and evidence they had. American  
Express accepted  my findings but explained re-working  the account would be challenging 
and that it could not create a new transaction history, so it would need to manually calculate 
when the account would  have been in a positive balance.
American Express has confirmed that Mrs S paid off her balance in full each month  and so 
no interest or charges have been  applied to this payment. And it has proposed instead to 
refund the payment and apply interest  at 8% simple per year on that amount for the time 
Mrs S has been without these funds.  Mrs S has confirmed this would be an acceptable 
resolution to her complaint.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, I dont  plan to depart from these 
other than amending the redress. 
Ive considered American Expresses offer to reimburse the payment and apply 8% simple 
interest on that amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN51059495Ive taken into account the need for a pragmatic solution and the fact no interest or charges 
have been applied to this amount. And that Mrs S has no concerns about settling the matter 
this way. Im satisfied that this would have a similar effect to the redress in my provisional 
decision and that it represents a fair resolution  to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require American  Express Services 
Europe Ltd to do the following:
1.Reimburse Mrs S the value of the disputed payment - £3,266.83.
2.Pay Mrs S interest on that amount at 8% simple per year from the date of the 
transaction to the date of settlement.
If American Express considers it should  deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of 
my award it may do so, but it should  give Mrs S the necessary certificate,  if she asks for it, 
so that she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if shes entitled to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5105949