K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, gave him loans he couldnt
afford to repay.
background
In February 2019,  I sent both parties  my provisional  decision  in this case, an extract of which  
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont repeat that here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr As complaint  in part and 
what Mr Lender  should  do to put matters right. Mr A accepted my provisional  decision and 
had nothing further to add except  to say that the final loan was settled last year. Mr Lender 
said it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor Mr Lender has provided me with anything that substantially alters 
matters, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
I remain of the view that the checks Mr Lender  carried out before loans one and two were 
proportionate but that it should have done more before  loans three to eight. I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown that Mr A could afford  to repay loans  three and four 
but not loans five to eight. 
I think that there was a significant gap between  loans eight and nine, such  that it broke the 
chain of borrowing. In those circumstances, the checks  Mr Lender  did before loan nine were 
proportionate. 
To put matters right, Mr Lender  should refund interest and charges on loans five to eight, 
pay interest on the refund and removed adverse information about those loans from 
Mr As credit  file. 
Ref: DRN55539852my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr As complaint in 
part. I now require PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender:
1.To refund  to Mr A all interest and charges hes paid on loans five to eight plus pay 
simple interest at the rate of 8% a year*, from the date each sum was paid until the 
date of settlement;
2.To remove any negative information  about loans five to eight from Mr As credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires  PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender,  to take off 
tax from this interest. It must give Mr A a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off, if 
he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55539853extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading  as Mr Lender, gave him loans  he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr A took out the following loans with Mr Lender:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of repayments
/£ highest repayment  at 
outset (rounded)date repaid
117 June 2014 350 1/473 28 July 2014
231 July 2014 410 1/533 27 November 2014
328 November 2014 1,000 6/467 29 April 2015
430 April 2015 1,000 6/399 28 August 2015
528 August 2015 1,000 3/589 30 October 2015
62 November 2015 900 6/337 25 March  2016
77 May 2016 1,000 3/504 28 July 2016
828 July 2016 1,500 12/329 28 June 2017
918 January 2018 690 6/341
Mr Lender didnt think that it had acted unfairly  but, as a gesture of goodwill,  it offered  to write off the 
outstanding balance on loan nine and remove adverse information from Mr As credit file. Mr A didnt 
accept Mr Lenders offer.  He says that the loans from Mr Lender made  his financial position  worse. 
Mr A says that Mr Lender didnt carry out checks to ensure he could  repay the loans. He wants Mr 
Lender to refund  all interest and fees,  pay interest and remove entries on his credit report.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr As complaint should  be upheld in part. She said that the checks Mr 
Lender carried out before loans one and two were proportionate but that it should have done more 
from loan three  onwards.  The adjudicator thought that proportionate checks would have  shown that 
Mr A could afford to repay loans three and four but not loans five to nine. She set out what Mr Lender 
should do to put matters  right.
Mr Lender offered to refund  interest  and charges  on loans five and six and pay interest on that 
refund. It didnt agree  with the adjudicators view in relation to loans seven, eight and nine. Mr Lender 
said that before loan seven,  there was a gap of over a month,  which showed that Mr A wasnt reliant 
on short-term borrowing. It said that it was entitled to rely on the checks it did, which showed  that Mr 
A could afford to repay these  loans. Mr Lender said that there was a significant  gap in lending 
between loans eight  and nine.
Mr A didnt accept Mr Lenders offer. As there was no agreement  between the parties, 
Mr As complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr A, Mr Lender had to check each  time that he could  afford  to make  
the repayments. The checks it did had to be proportionate. Whats  proportionate depends  on 
Ref: DRN55539854things like the size of the loan repayments and the information Mr Lender had about Mr A. Theres 
no set list of the checks a lender should carry out.
Before each  loan, Mr Lender  asked Mr A about  his monthly income and expenditure. It also carried  
out credit checks.  I think Mr Lenders checks were proportionate  before loans one and two. That 
was the start of the lending relationship and based  on the information it had about Mr A, it appeared 
that he could  afford the repayments.
I think that Mr Lender should have done more before loan three onwards. Thats  because  by loan 
three, Mr A had borrowed  for several  consecutive months and the amount  he wanted to borrow had 
increased substantially. So, there  were  indications  that Mr A may becoming  reliant on this sort of 
borrowing. I think that before  loans  three and four, 
Mr Lender should have  also asked Mr A about any other short-term lending. I cant  see that it did 
that. But I dont think that alters the outcome here. Based on what  Ive seen,  Mr A didnt  have other 
short-term lending at the time of loans three and four. So, I dont think  that proportionate checks 
would have led Mr Lender to conclude that Mr A couldnt afford to repay those loans.
By loan five, Mr As reliance on short-term borrowing was established. In those  circumstances, 
proportionate checks are likely  to have established a much  fuller picture of his financial  position. I 
think proportionate checks before loans  five to eight wouldve meant that Mr Lender took steps to 
verify the information Mr A provided  about his financial
situation. I dont agree that at this stage, Mr Lender was simply entitled to rely on the income and 
expenditure information it had gathered.
As Mr Lender doesnt  appear to have carried  out proportionate  and sufficient  checks, I cant say for 
sure what it wouldve found out had it done so. Mr A has provided us with evidence of his financial 
circumstances at the time he applied for the loans.  So Ive been able to get a picture  of what  his 
financial circumstances were  like. Of course, I accept that this isnt
perfect, as different checks show different  things. And just because something shows up in the 
information Mr A has now provided, it doesnt mean that it wouldve  shown  up in any checks that 
Mr Lender mightve carried out. But the information Mr A has provided is the best indication  I have 
of what his financial circumstances were at the relevant  time. In the absence of anything  else, I 
think its reasonable  to rely on it.
At the time of loans five to eight, Mr A didnt have enough disposable  income to repay  those
loans. For example, at the time of loan seven, Mr As income was in the region of £2,600 but his 
normal living  costs and regular financial commitments already exceeded  that. So, he couldnt afford  
to repay  further borrowing. At the time of loan eight Mr As income  had increased  with the addition  of 
commission but he also had significant amount of other
short-term borrowing such that he couldnt afford to repay loan eight.
Mr Lender says that there was a gap in borrowing between loans six and seven. I dont think  the gap 
was such that it broke the chain of borrowing. I dont think that Mr Lender should have given Mr A 
loans five to eight as proportionate checks would  have  shown that he couldnt  afford to repay  those 
loans.
I think that there was a significant gap in borrowing between loans eight and nine, such that it broke  
the chain of borrowing. So, by loan nine,  I think it was reasonable for 
Mr Lender to treat Mr A as a new borrower. In those circumstances,  I think that the checks  Mr 
Lender carried out before loan nine were proportionate. Mr A said his income  and outgoings were 
£4,000 and £1,405 respectively. I dont think  Mr Lender was wrong  to give Mr A loan nine as its 
proportionate checks showed that he could afford to repay it.
To put matters right,  I propose  to direct Mr Lender to refund interest and charges on loans five to 
eight, pay interest on the refund and removed adverse  information  about  those loans from Mr As 
credit file. As loan nine was the start of a new lending  relationship with Mr A, its not appropriate for 
Ref: DRN55539855Mr Lender to apply the refund and interest in relation  to loans five to eight to the outstanding  balance 
of loan nine.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr As complaint in part and require  PDL Finance  
Limited, trading as Mr Lender:
1. To refund  to Mr A all interest and charges hes paid on loans  five to eight plus pay simple 
interest at the rate of 8% a year*, from the date each sum was paid until the date of settlement;
2. To remove any negative information about loans five to eight from Mr As credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to take off tax from 
this interest. It must give Mr A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN5553985