K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  plc didnt  explain to him that he wouldnt 
have the same protection with a charge card that he had with a credit  card.
background 
Mr G has been a customer  of NatWest for many years. In 2003,  he upgraded his bank  
account and was given a charge card. Hed had a NatWest  credit card up to that point, but 
when he was given  the new card he started  using that instead. The terms of the charge card 
required Mr G to clear  the balance each month  unlike the credit card, which required a 
much lower  minimum  payment.  That however made no practical  difference to Mr G, since 
hed always paid the balance of the credit card in full each month. 
In 2016 Mr G engaged a business to sell a timeshare. He used his charge  card to pay 
£2,800 of the fee of around £11,000 the business demanded for its services. Mr G was 
unhappy with the service  he received  from the timeshare business  and sought the banks 
help  since hed paid for those services in part using its card.   
NatWest said however that Mr G didnt  have the statutory protection of section  75(1)  of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the Act). That was, it said, because  the card hed used to pay 
was a charge  card,  the balance of which had to be paid each month. 
Mr G complained to NatWest. He said he didnt  realise the card wasnt a credit card and 
pointed out that the bank had on many  occasions  over the years referred to it as such. Had 
he realised it didnt  carry the same protections as a credit card,  he would have changed  it for 
a credit card and used  that card to make the payment  in 2016. NatWest still didnt agree to 
meet his claim and pointed out that it had used the expression charge card  as well.   
Mr G wasnt happy with NatWests response  so he came  to this service.  Following 
discussion with our adjudicator, NatWest  agreed to refund  the £2,800 deposit. The bank  
agreed too that its literature could have been  clearer about the nature of the card. But it also 
said that, because  Mr G clears the balance on the card every  month,  he must have known it 
was a charge  card.  Our adjudicator thought  that the offer was fair.
Mr G didnt think that went far enough. He said his claim  against  the timeshare business  was 
for more than the return of the deposit, and that NatWest should meet the full claim, not just 
the sum he paid using  the card. He asked that an ombudsman review  the matter.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that, when he was given the card in 2003, he wasnt made aware that it was 
different from the credit  card hed had before.  We asked NatWest  for copies of any literature 
which was given to Mr G about the card at the time.  The bank provided some of his charge 
card statements from 2004  and 2005, but cant confirm what  information he was given about 
the card, given  the amount of time which has passed. I think it unlikely though that he was 
told anything specifically  about section 75(1).
As Ive indicated, Mr Gs day-to-day use and management of the charge card changed  very 
little. He cleared  the balance in full by monthly direct  debit, as he had his credit card account. 
Ref: DRN55863842He accepts that he had no appreciation of the distinction between  the two, and I think theres 
no reason why he should have done. He says that NatWest didnt advise him it was different 
from a credit card. 
Mr G says, correctly,  that NatWest uses the terms charge  card and credit card  
interchangeably in relation to the card. For example, sometimes  the card is referred to as a 
charge card and then a credit card within the same letter.  There are similarities, of course,  
and to some  extent a charge card is a type of credit card; both are used to obtain credit   
which, by section 9 of the Act includes  any  form of financial accommodation. 
The terms credit card  and charge card are not used in the Act. Rather,  it speaks of 
running-account  credit, defined in section 10(1)(a) as a facility under a consumer credit 
agreement whereby the debtor is enabled to receive from time to time (whether in his own 
person, or by another person) from the creditor or a third party cash,  goods  and services (or 
any of them) to an amount or value such that, taking into account payments made by or to 
the credit  of the debtor,  the credit limit (if any) is not at any time exceeded. That definition  is 
wide enough  to cover a card account which must be paid in full each month  and one which 
requires only a minimum payment.
The Act also uses the term credit-token , defined in section 14 as  a card given to an 
individual by a person   who undertakes that where, on the production of it to third party,  
the third party  supplies  cash, goods  and services, he will pay the third party  for them , in 
return for payment  by the individual.  That describes  how both Mr Gs NatWest charge card 
and his credit card operated when used for face-to-face transactions.  He would  hand  the 
card to a retailer; the retailer would provide  goods or services;  NatWest would pay the 
retailer; and NatWest would send a bill to Mr G. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair to say that NatWest should  not have 
used the term credit card in the way it did. But, whilst Mr Gs charge card shared many 
features with his credit  card,  it didnt carry section 75(1) protection.  Ill explain why.
The effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that, in many  cases,  a person who buys goods or 
services using a credit  card and who has a claim against the supplier  of those goods or 
services can bring the same claim against the card provider. But subsection  (3)(c)  says that 
subsection (1) does  not apply under an agreement: 
(i) which provides for the making  of payments by the debtor in relation to specified periods 
which, in the case of an agreement which is not secured on land, do not exceed  three  
months, and
(ii) which  requires that the number of payments to be made  by the debtor in repayments of 
the whole  amount of the credit provided  in each such period shall not exceed  one.
Both of these applied  to Mr Gs account,  and so he didnt have the protection he thought  he 
did when he first referred the matter to NatWest.  The way the card account was intended to 
operate meant it fell within the section  75(3)(c)  exception.  That exception applied  from 
February 2011; but before that, other provisions of the Act (not now in force) meant that Mr 
G would still not have had the protection of section 75(1).  
I accept that, until he made  a claim,  NatWest  didnt tell Mr G that his charge card wouldnt 
carry section 75(1) protection. Mr G hasnt suggested that he was ever told that it would, or 
indeed that he was told anything specific about  section  75. I find it most unlikely that the 
bank said anything about it, either  when  Mr G was using  his credit card or when he took out 
the charge card. But I dont believe NatWest  was under any duty to say anything about 
Ref: DRN55863843section 75, any more than I would expect  it to alert Mr G to other statutory  provisions that 
might or might not apply  beyond of course  what it was required to do by law or relevant 
regulations.  
That said,  if the bank  did provide information  about Mr Gs charge  card and its operation,  it 
had to do so with reasonable care and skill. But the only information giving any suggestion at 
all that section 75(1) could apply is that the banks regular and frequent description of the 
card as a credit card.  Mr G says that misled him into believing the charge card was 
essentially the same as a credit card, with similar protections.  In my view, thats something 
of a stretch, particularly  since  the bank also used  the term charge card.  Even  if I took a 
different view on that point, I dont  think using the term credit  card can, of itself,  be taken as 
an indication  that section 75(1) applies to it. For example, a company credit card wouldnt 
have that protection, and in most cases neither would a credit  card used by an additional 
cardholder. But both would  generally (and accurately)  be described as a credit card. I note 
too that the credit agreement was described  only as partly regulated by the Act.
For these reasons, I dont  believe that NatWest misled Mr G into thinking  he had the 
protection of section  75(1). Nor do I believe the bank was under any obligation  to advise 
whether or not he did have that protection. I would comment though that I dont accept the 
banks argument  that Mr G must have known he had a charge card because he repaid the 
balance in full each month; that was, after all, how hed operated his credit card account.    
I note that NatWest has nevertheless offered to refund the £2,800 paid for using the card.  
Im satisfied that offer was made in an attempt to settle the complaint, not because  the bank 
believes it has done anything wrong. I shall however make a formal  award  for that amount, 
so that its binding on NatWest, should  Mr G choose  to accept my decision. But I dont 
believe it would be fair to require NatWest to go any further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Mr Gs 
complaint, National  Westminster Bank plc should refund the sum of £2,800 to Mr G if it has 
not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5586384