K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  experiencing problems with their boiler after British  Gas 
Insurance Limited replaced and repaired it.
background
Mr and Mrs Hs boiler  was replaced  in 2009 under their Home Care policy with British Gas.  
They said they regularly  experienced  problems with the boiler  and this continued  even after 
numerous engineer call outs and repairs.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to British Gas in the early part of 2018 following  recent  repairs that 
hadnt resolved  the problems they were experiencing. British Gas carried out further repairs 
and eventually replaced the boiler in September 2018. It also offered Mr and Mrs H £530 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service  for an 
independent review. They said:
theyve had numerous call outs to repair their boiler
leaks have flooded  their kitchen
certain engineers  and managers theyve spoken  to havent been  helpful
their boiler consistently  failed  from December 2017 and September 2018 so theyve 
regularly been  without heating and/or hot water.
One of our investigators  upheld the complaint and asked British Gas to pay an additional 
£700 compensation. She said that British Gas shouldve replaced  the boiler in December 
2017 given the history  of regular problems and repairs. British Gas disagreed  that the boiler  
failed regularly and said that it wasnt until March 2018 that Mr and Mrs H called to arrange a 
repair. British Gas added that it tried to repair the boiler each time in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and only replaced the boiler  as a good will gesture to resolve  the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs H explained that they didnt contact  British  Gas sooner than March 2018  as they 
were following guidance given by engineers who had attended previous call outs. They said 
that theyd been told to press the reset button  each time the boiler failed and got in touch 
with British Gas in March  2018 when this wouldnt work. Mr and Mrs H explained that the 
boiler needed resetting several  times a day.
Our investigator went back to British  Gas upholding the complaint a second time. It 
continued to disagree so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision. Mr and 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator too as they felt the compensation should be higher.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint for similar 
reasons as the investigator and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint extends to issues they experienced with their boiler and 
British Gas over several years. However, as our investigator explained, British Gas provided  
a final response to some of these issues in February  2017 and Mr and Mrs H had six months 
Ref: DRN59760222from the date of this response to refer their complaint to this service.  It seems Mr and Mrs H 
first contacted this service  in March 2018.
Our rules say that a complaint referred to us more than six months  after the business issued 
its final response is out of time. If the business complained about doesnt agree to us looking 
in to the complaint and there are no exceptional circumstances that prevented it being 
referred in time  then we cant consider the complaint. 
So I cant look in to the complaint that British  Gas responded  to in February 2017. Ive 
considered the complaint issues since this and everything British Gas dealt with in its final 
response of August 2018.
Under the policy terms and conditions, British  Gas can repair  Mr and Mrs Hs boiler, or 
replace it if its irreparable.  I agree that British Gas shouldve replaced  the boiler sooner 
instead of trying to repair it several  times. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted  British Gas in December 2017 after their boiler failed to work. 
Mr and Mrs H told us that they were advised by an engineer(s) to keep  resetting  the boiler 
every time it fails to work. Its likely then that British Gas was aware that the boiler hadnt 
been repaired and could fail again  which it did. Mr and Mrs H said this happened 
numerous times a day until eventually the boiler  completely failed and wouldnt reset.
British Gas thinks the boiler  didnt fail constantly, otherwise Mr and Mrs H wouldve  got in 
touch sooner and certainly before March 2018.  However, Im not persuaded that this was the 
case. Mr and Mrs H had a long history of problems with their boiler (which British  Gas was 
aware of) and the information Ive seen suggests  they contacted British Gas countless  times 
when their boiler failed  to work. It seems  that, when they were given advice on how to get 
their boiler working quickly  instead  of waiting for a call out, they chose to follow it. And I can 
understand why this quick fix wouldve  been  appealing to them  considering the history of 
problems.  
I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H did experience constant problems with their boiler. 
So British  Gas shouldve  replaced the boiler  sooner. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs H experienced distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs H told us:
Mrs H has mobility issues and it was more  difficult to do normal activities  like shower as 
the boiler would  fail regularly
Mr and Mrs H would  have to sit by the boiler and reset it as it failed whilst the shower  
was in use
leaks have damaged their kitchen  floor
the maximum period  the boiler  would work  for was around 40 mins, after which it needed 
to be reset again.
I dont think the compensation British Gas has offered  so far fairly makes up for this. Mr and 
Mrs H wouldve regularly been without heating or hot water for the best part of a year  some 
of which  wouldve included the winter period. And this wouldve been more difficult  
considering their age, vulnerability and the historic issues  with their boiler  all of which  
British Gas wouldve  been aware of. I also think its unreasonable to have expected Mr and 
Mrs H to constantly reset the boiler  themselves.  
I agree  that a further £700 compensation is a fairer way to make up for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs H experienced.
Ref: DRN59760223my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.  I require British  Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £700 compensation on top of the £530  it has already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5976022