K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains Sabre Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. 
Mr Ws been represented for his policys administration and this complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the actions  of the representative  as being those of Mr W.  
background
In March 2013 Mr W took out a Sabre telematics  motor insurance policy.  It required him to 
have a black box fitted to his car. The box monitored  how the car was driven. The policy 
renewed four times. But in September 2017,  mid-way through  the policy  year, Sabre 
cancelled it. 
Sabre says the box wasnt providing  any data.  So it emailed Mr W to ask him to get in touch 
 warning him that if he didnt within seven days his policy  would be cancelled. It didnt hear 
from him so it cancelled the policy. He got in touch when he received the notice of 
cancellation.      
Mr W feels it was unfair to cancel the policy when  the problem was with Sabres equipment.  
He feels he wasnt given  reasonable notification  or time to respond.  He wants  the policy 
reinstated and any cancellation charges to be refunded. He wants it confirmed he wont need 
to declare the cancellation when taking out insurance. And he wants  it confirmed that the no 
claims discount (NCD) he earnt is valid. After Mr W complained Sabre said it hadnt done  
anything wrong.  
Our investigator felt Sabre  had cancelled the policy unfairly. He felt it should have made 
more attempts to contact Mr W before cancelling. So he said it should remove any record of 
cancellation, refund a £75 cancellation fee and pay Mr W £200  to recognise the unnecessary  
trouble and upset  it had caused. Sabre didnt accept  the investigators  assessment. So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sabre says the policy was cancelled in line with the policy terms. But this service doesnt 
only consider if a business has acted  in line with policy  terms  we also ask if it acted fairly 
and reasonably. Sabre says the policy wasnt cancelled unfairly  but having considered the 
relevant information  I dont agree.   
The policy terms say Sabre can cancel  if there  are valid grounds.  It provides a number of 
examples, adding grounds  arent  limited to them. The examples include a few relating to the 
telematics box  including Mr W being  found to have tampered with it. There isnt one that 
refers specifically to Mr W failing to respond  to an attempt from Sabre to contact him about  a 
problem with the box. 
Sabre says with this type of policy its important it can collect  data from the box. I understand 
broadly how these policies work. So I accept a lack of engagement from a policyholder  
regarding a lack of data might, in some  circumstances,  be a valid ground for cancellation.
Ref: DRN55380822But insurers  are required to treat their customers fairly  and in this case I dont think Sabre 
did. Mr W feels there should have been  further attempts and different methods of contact  
considering it was about something so important.  He feels  this was particularly so after 
having this type of policy with Sabre for more than four years.   
Sabre hasnt explained why the box wasnt providing any data. So its possible the problem 
was caused by something it was responsible for rather than Mr W. Sabre hasnt shown he 
had a history of not responding  to its requests. The email warning of cancellation implied 
Sabre had already  tried to call him. But it accepts it didnt do that. 
Considering everything  I agree with Mr W that it would, in the circumstances, have been fair 
and reasonable for Sabre to have  done  more to contact him before cancelling.  If it had Ive 
no reason to think Mr W wouldnt have  responded and avoided the cancellation.  
So even if I accept the cancellation was made  in line with the policy  terms  I dont think 
Sabres acted fairly and reasonably. So it will need to take reasonable steps to put Mr W in 
the position he would have been  if it hadnt cancelled the policy.
Mr Ws asked  for the policy to be reinstated. Its well past the policy  expiry date now  so 
theres little or no benefit to him paying the premiums to reinstate it. He was refunded the 
premium for the unused  part of the cover   so he hasnt lost out on that. 
Mr W was charged  a cancellation fee of £75. Sabre says this was applied by the broker  - so 
it shouldnt have to cover it. But it was Sabres mistake that caused Mr W to be charged it. 
He wouldnt have if Sabre  hadnt  cancelled unfairly.  So it needs to put things right by paying 
him what he was charged.  
So Mr W isnt disadvantaged by the cancellation Sabre will need  to change any internal and 
external records to show it happened at his request. Hes asked Sabre to provide proof of 
entitlement to four years  NCD  - from March 2013 to February 2017. Ive asked Sabre about 
this. It didnt indicate there would be a problem providing that. So it should  send Mr W proof  
of any NCD hes entitled to.     
Our investigator recommended Sabre pay Mr W £200 compensation. It seems the policy  
being cancelled  unfairly caused  him some  distress in addition. It also appears he hasnt  
taken out his own policy since  at least partly  due to his concern about cancellation records 
and lack of NCD.  So I agree £200  would be a reasonable amount for Sabre  to pay to 
recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused.  
Ref: DRN55380823my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Sabre Insurance Company  Limited will need to:
reimburse Mr W the £75 cancellation  fee. It will need to add simple  interest  to this at 
8% per year from the date it was charged to Mr W to the date of settlement*,
pay Mr W £200 to recognise  the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused  
(Sabre should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ws accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of my final decision  to the date it makes payment*), 
amend any internal  and external databases  to show  the policy as being cancelled  at 
Mr Ws request  and 
provide Mr W with proof of any NCD hes entitled to.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sabre  Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Sabre Insurance Company Limited must give Mr W a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN5538082