K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC reported arrears  to the credit reference 
agencies in relation a loan he had. 
background
Mr C had a personal loan with Barclays. At the end of 2018 he closed the bank account  that 
was used to make payments to the loan. He thought the loan had been repaid in full but 
there was around  £1,100 outstanding. Mr C complained and referred his case  to our service.  
An investigator looked at it but said the outstanding balance was correct  and Mr C agreed to 
start making  payments. On 29 January 2019 the investigator spoke with a case handler  at 
Barclays who confirmed that if Mr C started making  payments to the loan account no 
adverse information  would  be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr C made  a payment  of £47.62 to his loan on 18 February 2019 and another for £95.24 on 
18 March 2019.  
In April 2019 Barclays reported another missed payment  to the credit reference agencies.  
The investigator looked at the new issues that had arisen since  she dealt  with Mr Cs original 
complaint. She asked  Barclays to remove the arrears information for January and February  
2019 because  she was told that if Mr C started making payments to the loan account there 
would be no arrears information reported to the credit reference agencies.  She also said 
Barclays should remove the April 2019  arrears information because Mr C had been told in 
March 2019 that he couldnt set up a standing order as there  was an ongoing complaint 
which was incorrect. 
Barclays didnt agree. It said Mr C was aware  of the arrears so needed to make payments to 
repay them. It accepted  Mr C had been  given incorrect information in March 2019 and 
offered to pay £50. But later said that Mr C had previously made manual payments to his 
loan so could  have done that in April 2019. Barclays didnt accept the investigators view so 
the complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues here. The first relates  to the arrears information reported  to the 
credit reference agencies for January  and February 2019. Our investigator  called  Barclays  
on 29 January 2019  to ask whether information  about the missed  payments would be 
reported on Mr Cs credit file. 
Ive listened to the call recording and can confirm  Barclays case handler told the investigator 
that if payments  quickly resumed there  wouldnt be a problem (for Mr Cs credit  file). But the 
call handler didnt give clear guidance. Barclays recently said Mr C should  have  immediately 
cleared his arrears  balance and made  a payment. But that wasnt  what the investigator  was 
told. And Mr C made his next payment on 18 February 2019. I appreciate that might  not 
have been what  the case handler meant, but without providing  more specific guidance,  Im 
satisfied Mr C started making his payments in line with what the investigator was told. 
Ref: DRN56735112In addition, I think that if the investigator was told Mr C was needed to immediately clear his 
full arrears balance  during  that call he could have taken steps to do so (the arrears balance  
was modest and was cleared the following month). But that advice wasnt provided.
Ive thought carefully about what happened. Im satisfied that that there was confusion  about 
what Mr C needed to pay. And, as Ive said above, Barclays missed the chance to give clear 
guidance about how to reduce the arrears when the investigator called. As a result, I dont 
think its fair to report arrears from January and February 2019 on Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C didnt make a payment in April 2019. Hes told us thats because Barclays refused to 
proceed with his payment instructions. Barclays accepts  it refused to set up a standing  order  
because it incorrectly thought there  was an ongoing complaint. Its agreed to amend Mr Cs 
credit file and pay £50 which I agree is fair.  
Mr C says the information reported  on his credit file has impacted a mortgage application. I 
appreciate there were  arrears markers on his credit file but Ive also seen other information 
reported by different businesses that could  impact a mortgage application.  I cant  fairly 
conclude it was Barclays information that caused  problems.
Barclays offered Mr C £50 for failing  to set up the standing  order in March  2019 and the 
investigator asked it to increase the offer by another £50, taking  the total to £100.  Im 
satisfied Mr C has been treated unfairly which has caused him considerable stress. I can see 
that resolving the issues raised have taken up an unreasonable amount of time as well. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied the £100  recommended fairly reflects 
the impact of Barclays errors on Mr C. 
I also agree  that the information  reported  on Mr Cs credit file isnt a fair reflection of the 
January and February 2019 loan payments. Barclays  has already agreed to amend the 
April 2019 information.  But, like the investigator, I agree the January and February 2019 
arrears markers should be removed  as well. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C a 
total of £100 (less any compensation already paid).  Barclays  Bank UK PLC should also 
amend Mr Cs credit file so no arrears  are reported for January, February and April 2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5673511