K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has given 
him in relation to his credit card account.  He wants Barclays to compensate him for this. 
background 
The evidence in this case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents,  all of 
which Ive read and considered. Im very aware that my decision summarises  this complaint 
only briefly and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  
on what I think is the crux of the matter here: how has Mr C been  affected by the actions of 
Barclays? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I wont repeat all the events which led Mr C to complain.  There are various reasons for this. 
First of all, the adjudicator  detailed the events  leading up to this complaint in his letter dated 
24 April 2019. All the parties have received and read this letter, so everyone  is aware  of the 
background. Also, our decisions are published. So its important  that I dont include any 
information which might  identify Mr C. Due to these reasons,  I will refer only briefly to whats 
happened, rather than providing an exact  timeline of the events which Mr C has complained  
about. 
Briefly, Barclays records show Mr C opened  this credit card account  in 2012. Over the years  
that followed, as well as using his card for everyday  purchases, Mr C he began  using his 
card to make cash transactions. It seems the majority of these  transactions were used to 
place bets on gambling websites. The frequency of these  cash transactions rose steadily. In 
January 2017  Barclays reduced Mr Cs credit limit, seemingly because of the high level of 
cash transactions. 
Later that same year, Mr C began contacting Barclays about  the amount  of interest he was 
paying on his account. The bank agreed several times to freeze the interest.  In November 
2018, Mr C told Barclays about his gambling. He said he wanted his card to be blocked from 
being able to be used for gambling.  Barclays arranged to remove the cash  limit from Mr Cs 
account. This meant he wouldnt  be able to use his card to make cash  transactions. 
But Barclays  also explained  that if Mr C wanted to be able to use his account for other, 
everyday purchases, the bank couldnt  stop him using his card for gambling if the relevant 
merchant processed the transaction  as non-cash. 
Mr C then complained  to Barclays. He said the bank should have told him earlier that it could 
remove the cash limit on his account  to help stop him gambling. Barclays apologised that it 
didnt do this sooner.  It paid £50 to Mr Cs account as a gesture of goodwill. The bank also 
refunded the cash interest hed been  charged over the previous 12 months  from January 
2018. This totalled £823.46. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this, so he brought his complaint to us. In summary, he wanted  
Barclays to: suspend the interest  on his account; refund the cash advance  fees hed been 
charged; for any refund to be over a longer period than the one year that hed already  
Ref: DRN59228662received; and, for Barclays  to accept that customers who use a large  proportion  of their 
credit limit on gambling are at a high risk of being  problem gamblers who should be treated 
accordingly. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Cs complaint. He though Barclays could have done 
more when it identified  the high level of cash transactions on Mr Cs account.  The 
adjudicator said Barclays should also refund the cash  interest  on the account from January 
2017 in addition to refund it had already made for the following year. 
At first, Barclays didnt accept the adjudicators view. But after further discussions, it agreed 
to refund the cash interest from January 2017  as well as the amount it had already refunded. 
Barclays also offered to put the balance of Mr Cs account onto an interest rate of 6.9%  and 
let him pay off the balance monthly.  This would mean the account would be closed and Mr C 
would no longer be able to use it. 
Mr C didnt accept this offer. Again in brief, he said hed asked for this to be done many 
months ago, but was told this wasnt possible.  Mr C told us that between 2016 and 2019 
hed paid over £36,000  to Barclays. He asked for compensation of between 25% and 35% of 
this amount. Barclays refused. 
As the parties havent  been able to agree a resolution, this complaint  has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
Barclays to do, or pay, more than its already offered. Ill explain why. 
My staring point is to think about  when Barclays ought reasonably to have realised Mr C was 
having problems.  The bank has told us that it didnt know there was a problem  on the 
account until Mr C told them about  his gambling  in November  2018. On the other hand, our 
adjudicator felt Barclays could have looked  further  into Mr Cs account  in January 2017 when 
it noticed the high level of cash  transactions.  
This is now something of a moot point as Barclays has already  offered to refund the interest 
on these cash transactions from that earlier date, and Im satisfied that, from the available 
evidence, Barclays wouldnt, and reasonably shouldnt, have been aware Mr C had a 
gambling problem  before this. I say this for several reasons. 
I would point out that at the time Mr C was making these cash transactions,  there werent  
any regulations  against  using credit  cards for gambling. Also, I have to bear in mind  that 
Mr C did have the use of this money.  He was able to spend it however he wanted on any 
legitimate reason. 
Inevitably, Mr C would  also have  had a number of winning bets from these transactions.  I 
dont think the bank wasnt in a position  to assume  that just because Mr C was using his 
account for gambling,  this meant he had a gambling  problem.  
Also, I can see Mr C spoke to Barclays on various different occasions  after January 2017. 
Ive listened to the call recordings that are available from this period. Having done so, I dont 
Ref: DRN59228663think Barclays ought reasonably to have  realised Mr C was having difficulties before this. It 
wasnt until November 2018 that he first mentioned  gambling to the bank. 
As above, in January 2017, Barclays did identify that Mr C was making a large number  of 
cash transactions. It reduced his credit limit at this time. If the bank had looked into the issue  
further at this stage,  its possible  that Mr C might have told Barclays  that he had gambling 
issues. But then again, he might not. 
When he was asked  in March 2018  if he was having  financial  problems,  Mr C made no 
mention of gambling. Then in October  2018,  he asked if he could  talk to the team who deal 
with customers who are having trouble making payments. Barclays  asked Mr C if it could put 
a note on his account about  his financial situation.  He said he wasnt  happy  for this to 
happen. 
Overall, I dont  think its certain that Mr C, if asked,  would  have  told the bank he had a 
gambling problem  any earlier  than he actually did. In any event, as Ive already  said, this is a 
moot point as Barclays has now already offered to refund the cash  interest on his account 
from January 2017. 
I know Mr C has said that he took out other types  of credit to reduce the balance  on his 
Barclaycard. He said Barclays told him to do this. But theres nothing in the available  
evidence, including  the calls Ive listened  to, that shows this was the case. 
Mr C has also questioned  why Barclays thought  he was asking for his interest  to be frozen if 
he wasnt in financial difficulty. But after listening to his calls with Barclays, such  as the call in 
March 2018, he said he could make his monthly  payment and he would only start to struggle 
if the interest  took him over his credit limit, leading to further charges. 
I can also see from Mr Cs statements that he was frequently  paying  more than the minimum 
payment that was due on his account each month. Barclays  has a responsibility to treat 
customers positively and sympathetically when theyre in financial difficulties.  But there also 
has to be some input from such customers. 
When Mr C told Barclays about his gambling problem, it offered a solution.  When he 
complained about why this solution wasnt offered earlier, the bank refunded  the cash  
interest hed been  charged since January 2018 and paid him £50 as an apology. 
When Mr C spoke to the banks Specialist Support  team in December 2018, it discussed  
putting him on a repayment plan to help him. But it seems Mr C opted  not to go onto this 
plan as he could  still afford his minimum monthly  payment.  Barclays gave him the contact 
details for this team should  he change  his mind. 
Taking all this into consideration,  Im satisfied that Barclays did treat Mr C positively and 
sympathetically when  discussing his financial situation. I would remind  the bank this is an 
ongoing obligation. Im also satisfied that Barclays further offer to refund cash interest from 
January 2017,  and move Mr Cs account  onto a much lower interest rate, is fair and 
reasonable. 
I know Mr C says this offer isnt beneficial  or helpful  to him. He says that in the long run, his 
credit score would improve quicker if he was able to unfreeze  his credit card in the future  
and continue to use it. 
Ref: DRN59228664But Barclays  has told us Mr Cs credit file wont be affected as long as hes making his 
monthly payments.  I would also point out that the terms  and conditions  for Mr Cs account  
allow Barclays to close it at any time by simply giving him the appropriate notice. Its under 
no obligation  at all to keep his account  open. 
For completeness, I can see that Mr C is very keen for Barclays  to change its systems  
around identifying  vulnerable consumers,  including those who are problem gamblers. Also, 
in response to our adjudicators original view,  he told us that while wed upheld  his 
complaint, there was no real punishment against Barclays. 
I would explain here that we arent  a regulator. We have no power to punish or fine a bank. 
Nor is it within our remit to tell Barclays what systems it should have, or order it to change  
any of its existing systems. These are internal matters for the bank. What  we can do is look 
at if Mr C has been treated unfairly  because of those  systems  and if he has, what Barclays 
should do to put matters  right. Thats what Ive done.  
In summary,  in the situation here, Im satisfied that Barclays  offer to refund  the cash  interest  
from January 2017 (in addition to the cash interest  its already refunded from January 2018), 
close Mr Cs account and, put the balance  onto a rate of 6.9% until its paid off, is fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, should do the 
following to Mr Cs credit  card account:
refund  the cash interest charged from January  2017 to December 2017 inclusive to 
his account;
close the account so that Mr C can no longer use his credit  card;  and
reduce the interest rate on the outstanding balance to 6.9% until its been  paid off. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5922866