K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
In June 2015 Mr B was in an accident that wasn't  his fault.  The other driver admitted liability  
and Mr B recovered his excess. But Advantage didn't recoup its costs and so the claim 
remained open for some years. Mr B complained.  Advantage accepted  that it had caused 
some delays and it paid Mr B £75 compensation for the impact of that.
Mr B didn't  think Advantage had done  enough  to put things right. So he brought his 
complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think advantage had dealt with Mr B fairly; so she said 
it should increase  its offer of compensation to £200 in total. Advantage didn't agree so the 
complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
It seems  that, while liability for the accident  wasn't in question, the other  drivers  insurer 
disputed the amount Advantage had paid out to settle the claim. So Advantage passed  the 
matter to its legal  representatives.  What happened next isn't clear  but it seems  that the 
representatives asked  Advantage  for further  documents. Advantage says it sent them but 
the representatives didn't receive  them and so some months later they closed their file. But it 
seems that Advantage didn't take any further action to close  the claim down  until Mr B 
contacted it in 2018. At that point, although it still hadn't recovered  its outlay  Advantage 
closed the claim on a shared insurance database  recording  it as non-fault.
Advantage has acknowledged that it delayed in closing the claim down. But it says this has 
had a minimal effect on Mr B. That's because it said it had recorded the claim on its internal  
records as non-fault;  so when Mr B renewed  his policy with it, in 2015  and 2016,  the fact the 
claim was still open didn't  affect his premiums.  And it says that as it recorded  the claim on its 
internal database  as non-fault  its likely  the shared database also recorded the claim as   
non-fault. So it thinks that the £75 compensation its already paid is fair. But I don't agree.
Advantage has shown us evidence that the open claim didn't make Mr Bs premium higher  
than it would have  been if it had closed  the claim when Mr B renewed his policy  with it in 
2015 and 2016. But that doesn't mean  that the claim remaining open  wasn't  a source  of 
distress and inconvenience for him. Advantage has speculated that the claim would  have 
shown as non-fault on the shared database but I don't think  it did. That database shows the 
claim as closed in March 2018. And insurers generally treat open  claims  as if they are fault 
claims. And at one point Advantage told Mr B that in order  to close the claim on the shared 
database it would have to record it as a fault against Mr Bs insurance history.  Also Mr Bs 
told us that after he bought a policy from another insurer in 2017, it later asked him for an 
additional premium  of around  £60-£70  because  of the open claim. Mr B hasn't provided 
evidence to verify this but its clearly been  a source of frustration for him. 
Ref: DRN52754552Also, Mr B has had to ask for letters to pass to other insurers  to explain that although the 
claim hadn't been  settled Advantage had treated it as non-fault. And hes had to spend time 
and money making  phone calls and chasing Advantage in order to try and sort this out. So I 
don't think  the £75 compensation Advantage had already offered is enough to address       
Mr Bs distress  and inconvenience.  So, to put things right,  I think Advantage should increase 
its compensation amount to £200  in total.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to increase its compensation amount to a total of £200. It should  pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr B has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr B a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5275455