K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans that Mr Lender provided to Mrs S in May 2012 and 
June 2013. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs S complaint and thought that she Mr Lender  shouldnt have 
rolled the first loan over for a fourth time or have provided loan 2 either. Mr Lender disagreed 
with our adjudicators  assessment. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. 
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mrs S, I think that Mr 
Lender should reasonably have seen that Mrs S was unlikely to have been able to make  her 
loan payment when  it rolled-over her loan for a fourth time. 
Ref: DRN56811032Ive seen that Mr Lender has said that it wasnt a member of the Finance and Leasing 
Association and so its Good Practice Charter is irrelevant. But irrespective of whether this 
Good Practice charter represented  good industry  practice, I dont think that this matters too 
much here. This is because Mr Lender  was required to exercise forbearance in the event 
Mrs S was struggling to repay what she owed. And, in my view,  Mrs S not repaying this loan 
within three months, even  though she was supposed to have done  so in one, was in itself an 
indication that she was more likely than not finding  it difficult  to repay this loan, rather than it 
being the case that she was looking for the flexibility afforded by deferring  repayment.
In these circumstances, I think that Mr Lender ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have  exercised 
forbearance and offered  Mrs S the opportunity to have repaid what  she owed in a 
sustainable manner.  I dont think rolling over the loan a further seven times and charging 
high amounts of additional interest for the privilege of allowing Mrs S to delay dealing  with 
this unsustainable  debt was treating Mrs S fairly and reasonably or exercising forbearance.  
As this is the case, I find that Mr Lender unfairly and unreasonably rolled-over Mrs S loan 
from the fourth rollover of loan 1 onwards. 
Equally as I think that Mrs S more likely than not rolled-over  loan 1 as many times  as she did 
because she was experiencing  financial difficulty and loan 2 was taken soon after loan 1 was 
eventually repaid, it follows that I also think  loan 2 shouldnt have been  provided to Mrs S 
either. 
Mrs S had to pay additional  interest and charges because Mr Lender treated her unfairly.  So 
I think that she lost out and Mr Lender  should put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid on loan 1 from the fourth rollover onwards;
refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid, whether to Mr Lender or any third-party  
debt purchaser,  on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loans  1 and 2 where they remain  should  now be removed  from Mrs S 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs S complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
should pay Mrs S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5681103