K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK plc wont refund two transfers made from his 
personal account to a community  account on which he is a signatory.  
background
Mr K held a personal  account with Barclays and was also a signatory on a community  
account which hed opened in April 2017.  In December  2017 two telephone transfers  one 
for £3,000  and one for £2,500  were  made  from his personal account  to the community  
account. That money was then withdrawn  from the community account at cash machines 
and using Barclays Assisted Service Devices. Mr K says he wasnt  responsible for the 
transfers from his personal  account  or for the withdrawals  from the community  account. The 
bank says he was, and has refused to make any refunds. 
I shall deal here only with the transfers  from Mr Ks personal account. The withdrawals from 
the community account are the subject of a separate complaint, and I wont  comment on that 
 other  than to say that the transfers and withdrawals are almost certainly linked.
Barclays records indicate that, in September 2017, Mr K requested and was sent a 
passcode enabling  him to use telephone banking on his personal account. He says he didnt 
receive the code.  The bank says that the code could be used, along with other information 
about the account, to make transactions using telephone  banking.  
The two telephone transfers were  made  in December 2017. Barclays says that a recording 
of the calls making the transfers isnt available;  a call would only be recorded if the customer 
speaks to a call-handler, but telephone banking is mostly automated.  It says too that, if the 
call is made  from a number that isnt registered  to the account, the caller will be asked 
further questions  about recent account  transactions. It hasnt been able to show, however, 
whether the calls to make  the transfers were made from Mr Ks number.
Barclays looked into both the transfers  from Mr Ks account and the withdrawals from the 
community account. It reached the conclusion however that Mr K had made  or authorised  
those transactions  himself. It also said though,  as the transfers had been made to an 
account Mr K controlled (that is, the community account), he hadnt lost out as a result of the 
payments from his own account. He referred  the matter to this service, but our investigator 
reached a similar view.  Mr K asked that an ombudsman review the case   as the final stage 
in our procedures.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusion as our investigator  did. 
Mr K hasnt denied requesting a new passcode so he could use telephone banking.  He does 
say however that he never received it. But I note that, as well as being  used for the disputed 
payments, telephone banking was used to make  a £20 payment to an account with HSBC  
the day before the first of those. The HSBC branch is near Mr Ks home  and the recipient 
appears to be a family member. The banks notes on telephone payments appear to say that 
a payment to a third party cant be made  without  the passcode; security questions  can be 
answered to gain access to an account and to make  payments, but only to linked accounts.  
Ref: DRN54913562There are therefore indications that the telephone passcode  was in fact delivered to Mr K; it 
cant have been  both delivered and intercepted.
As Ive indicated though, the passcode  wasnt  necessary to make a transfer between  linked  
accounts. The community account  was linked to Mr Ks personal account.  He doesnt believe 
it should have  been, since the account holders were different. I can see Mr Ks point here, 
but it is to a large extent for Barclays to decide  how it sets up its systems. There doesnt  
appear to be any suggestion  that this arrangement compromised Mr Ks personal data for 
example; the most significant  consequence  was that it was easier to transfer money 
between the two accounts. 
In my view, however,  its unlikely that someone  would have intercepted the passcode and 
then made  no attempt to use it for three  months.  And in any event, it would have been of 
little use without other information about the account. In my view,  its more likely than not 
that Mr K made the transfers  himself, or allowed  someone else to do so.
But, even  if I reached a different view on that point, I agree with the bank  that the transfers 
from his personal account to another account Mr K controlled didnt cause any direct  loss to 
him. Thats because, as long as the money  remained in the community account, he 
remained able to transfer the money  back. Any loss was caused by the withdrawal of the 
funds from the community  account.  not by the transfer to it. But, as Ive said,  thats the 
subject of a different complaint and I shant comment on it here.     
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Barclays  Bank UK plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept  or reject  my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5491356