K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that his car was damaged by the repairer appointed by his motor insurer, 
Ageas Insurance Limited.
background 
Mr S insures his car with Ageas. He was involved in an accident when another  car drove into 
the back of him while he was stationary  in traffic.  So he claimed on his insurance. Ageas 
pursued the other cars  insurer  and arranged  for its garage to collect  Mr Ss car for repairs.
The car was repaired  and returned  to Mr S. Mr S has said he is happy with the repairs. But 
he believes  the car was damaged by the repairer.  He says there are chips and dents on the 
front and front side of the car, and damage to one of the mirrors. And the aerial is missing. 
So he complained.
Ageas tried to arrange for the garage to inspect the car. But neither the garage nor Mr S 
turned up. Ageas  then said this was a dispute  between Mr S and the garage  he would have 
to pursue himself,  and wouldnt  get involved further.
Our investigator said she thought the damage was pre-existing wear  and tear, not caused by 
the garage. But she thought Ageas should have investigated Mr Ss concerns properly as it 
was responsible for its approved repairer.  She said it should pay Mr S £50 compensation for 
the trouble and upset he was caused.  Mr S didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He pointed out there  were  no pictures taken of the car when it was 
collected and he believed the garage caused  the damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigator that Ageas  is responsible  for the actions of its approved  
repairer. It would  have been helpful if the repairer  had taken photos of the car before taking it 
away, as that would have enabled to me to be sure about whether the damage was already 
there.
Without that, I cant be sure. However,  on balance, I think it is more  likely that the damage 
Mr S complains about is pre-existing wear and tear, and wasnt  caused in the accident or by 
the garage. 
The accident  involved another  car hitting Mr S in the rear. Theres no suggestion  that he was 
pushed into another car, or an obstacle.  So I dont think  its likely  damage to the front of the 
car, or the wing mirror,  was caused in the accident.  Nor do I think  that would have resulted in 
the removal of the aerial.
There are photos of the work in progress  at the garage, and they all show work  being done 
to the back of the car, not the front. And I can see no reason why the garage  would  remove 
the aerial.
The later photos  of the damage show a series  of small cracks and chips  to the paintwork. I 
note that Mr S parks his car on his small driveway with the body right up against the house 
Ref: DRN55350242wall. And its not uncommon for stones and similar  objects to be thrown up while  driving, and 
for chips in the paintwork to result.
On balance, having considered the evidence, I think its most likely  that the damage Mr S 
complained about is the result of ongoing wear and tear. I dont think  the car was damaged  
by the garage. Its possible, of course, that Mr S didnt notice the damage until he looked 
carefully at the car when it was returned  to him  but if he hadnt noticed it, that doesnt 
mean it wasnt there. And the collection sheet signed by Mr Ss wife when the car was 
collected isnt entirely  clear  but the front area of the car has been marked as well as the 
back on the diagram   suggesting the engineer who collected the car did notice the damage.
However, Ageas should have recognised that it was responsible for what  its appointed 
garage did  and its customer service in dealing with Mr Ss concerns could have been 
better as a result. Its accepted the investigators  recommendation to pay £50 compensation, 
which I think is fair. To that limited extent, I uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that its fair and reasonable for Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £50. I make no other award or direction.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5535024