K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) put a charge on his property. He 
doesnt believe it should have done  so as he was in the process of setting  up a trust deed  at 
the time.  Mr M would like the charge taken off his property.
background
Mr M says in 2007 he engaged in a Trust Deed,  as part of that process  all of his debts, 
including those with RBS, were noted  on a Creditors list. And all contact from his creditors 
went to his appointed Trustee. He says he believes that RBS applied a charge to his 
property in the knowledge he intended to enter into a Trust Deed. And so shouldnt have 
done so.
He says he has had no contact from RBS about  the debt or charge  in eleven years. And only 
became aware  of the charge when he was trying  to repair his credit  file in 2018.
He says RBS said it would remove the charge. But then told him it wouldnt.  It has given him 
a redemption figure. But he isnt sure its correct.
RBS said it records showed  that a Decree  was received on 27 March 2008  for the total sum 
of £11,927.69. This debt was secured against  Mr Ms property on 19 September 2008.  It 
noted Mr M didnt enter into a Trust Deed until 16 December 2008. It says trust deeds dont 
manage secured  debts.  So doesnt believe it has done anything wrong.
It said when it became aware of Mr Ms insolvency it didnt pursue further repayments or 
make a claim for the debt within the Trust Deed. It says it has provided  a redemption figure 
of £11,291.12
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  He found the charge process started  in March 
2008 and concluded before the Trust  Deed had been set up. So he didnt feel RBS had done 
anything wrong. He said he would RBS to clarify  the calculations  for the redemption  figure.
Mr M didnt  accept this view. He said the Trust Deed process started in 2007  and all his 
creditors were  including RBS were in discussion with his appointed trustee at the time. And 
he says that his debts  with RBS were advertised along with other debts  and were  on the 
court listing for his Trust  Deed. He says his appointed trustee  was unaware of RBSs  
intention to put a charge on his property.  
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change his view. He said that the 
solicitors RBS used served  Mr M with court papers  on 17 April 2008. The charging order  was 
then approved by the Court. So he did feel there  was evidence  to show  Mr M had been 
advised of the charge on his property.
Mr M didnt  accept this He says he didnt  get any correspondence from RBS as all 
correspondence was being dealt with by his appointed trustee. And he said he had two other  
debts secured by charges that were declared  to the Court but set aside to be dealt with by a 
side letter  and arrangement  and were fully paid back over the duration of the trust deed.
However Mr M said his main point was that he felt RBS should have responded to press and 
court advertisements about his debts
Ref: DRN50356342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that RBS has a charge against Mr Ms property. The issue  
seems to be if RBS correctly applied this charge.  Mr M feels  it applied it knowing he was 
entering into a Trust Deed arrangement.
As I understand it a Trust Deed is where an individual agrees to make  affordable  monthly 
payments over a fixed period of up to four years to in order to reduce debts. At the end of 
this four year period  any outstanding debts are written  off. The deed  covers unsecured 
debts.
Mr M says that RBS should have responded to press and court  advertisements  about his 
debts as RBS was listed as a creditor.   Ive  noted  Mr M has given us a list of his creditors  
which includes RBS. If I have understood him correctly I think this means if RBS had done 
this his debts  with RBS would  have  been  dealt with under the Trust  Deed which clearly 
would have been to his benefit as any outstanding debts would have been written off by 
now.
Ive asked RBS about  this. It has told us there  is an automated  process which alerts the 
bank to insolvencies.  It then takes  any appropriate  action. I appreciate this response  will be 
frustrating for Mr M as it doesnt answer his specific question as to whether RBS was aware  
of  press  and court  advertisements. And if so why it didnt approach his appointed trustee. 
However I have also seen RBSs customer notes which  include reference  to the charge on 
his property but dont refer to Mr M entering  into a Trust Deed arrangement. I have also 
asked if RBS has any information to say when  it became aware of the Trust Deed. It says it 
doesnt have any other  information other  than what it has given us. Thats unfortunate but 
banks dont have  to keep information for ever and its over ten years now since  these events 
occurred so I dont  find that unreasonable.
I have also asked Mr M if he has any information  from his appointed trustee that might  be 
able to help. Although he has given  us letter confirming that the trustee could go ahead and 
get the Trust Deed  protected this letter doesnt give me any specific  information about RBS.
Other than the list of creditors Mr M has given us which I cant  be sure RBS saw I have no 
other information to show that RBS was aware Mr M was entering into a Trust Deed 
arrangement when it started the process  to put a charge on his property. 
However I do have a letter from RBSs solicitors  dated 18 April 2008 stating it had served  
court papers  on Mr M on 17 April 2008. The charge was subsequently applied  on 19 
September 2008 but Mr Ms Trust Deed wasnt set up until 16 December 2008.
I  cant accept Mr M was unaware RBS was applying  for a charge to be put on his property 
given the court papers  I have referred to above  were hand delivered to Mr Ms address. Also 
although I havent seen any further documentation  I think its unlikely that neither the court 
nor the solicitor wouldnt haven  confirmed the charge  on Mr Ms property when the court  
agreed this.
Ref: DRN50356343Taking all of this information into account  I dont feel I have any evidence  to show that RBS 
deliberately applied a charge on Mr Ms property knowing a Trust Deed arrangement  was 
being set up. So I cant reasonably ask RBS to take the charge off the property.
I accept as RBS hasnt been in touch with Mr M for some years  about his debts. And that 
might be reason for Mr M to think these had been  included and resolved via his Trust Deed.  
RBS has explained  once it became aware  of Mr Ms insolvency it closed his account  which  
would explain why correspondence ceased. However the debt secured against  the property 
is still valid.
I know that Mr M has queried the redemption figure  that RBS has given him. He hasnt 
explained why he thinks the figure RBS gave his was wrong.  So its difficult  for me to judge if 
the figure is accurate. However I have asked RBS to confirm the figure and how this has 
been made up to Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5035634