K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about Mortgage Express.  He said that:
-hed been  overcharged since 2009.  When hed been on a fixed  rate from 2007  to 2009, 
hed been charged  on the correct  balance. But since then, Mortgage  Express had been 
calculating monthly payments  based  on a higher,  incorrect mortgage balance.  He wants  
a refund for the extra  he believes hes been  charged since June 2009;
-he didnt feel it was right that if he made an overpayment, the balance  wouldnt be re-
calculated until the following  month;
-Mortgage Express final response  letter to his complaint hadnt contained any details 
about which department had sent the letter, or any information about  who he could  
contact to discuss the letter;
-Mortgage Express hadnt let him change his mortgage, so he felt trapped info a high 
interest rate.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage on 28 June 2007. It was for £145,545 including fees. It was on an 
interest only basis, with a fixed rate until the end of June 2009, when it would go onto the 
standard variable  rate. There  would be early  repayment charges if Mr S paid off the 
mortgage before the end of June  2009,  but none  after that. Mr S made  his monthly  
payments by direct debit.
In autumn 2018,  Mr S was thinking about  paying  a lump sum off his mortgage  and contacted 
Mortgage Express to ask how much his balance was. He complained because the balance 
was around £75 more  than hed expected.  He also said that there had been a couple of 
occasions when  the rate had been  4.84%, but hed been charged different amounts for the 
monthly payment.  Hed paid £587.08 the first time he was on that rate, but later hed been  
charged 9p a month more, at £587.17.  Mr S said his payments had been calculated  wrongly.
In its final response dated 22 October  2018, Mortgage Express  said that daily interest was 
charged and hed incurred £74.08 of interest  in the month his mortgage had completed,  June 
2007. So the balance at the end of that month had been £145,619.08, which  the lender said 
was correct. 
Mortgage Express explained that when  Mr S was paying his fixed  rate from 2007 to 2009, 
the payments  had been calculated on the original £145,545. When the fixed  rate ended, 
theyd been calculated on the actual  balance outstanding. It said that the first time Mr S had 
been paying a 4.84% interest  rate, the balance used for calculation  had been £145,558.13, 
and the second time hed been paying  that rate the balance for calculation  had been  
£145,581.81. The lender said the difference  in the balance was why Mr S had been paying  
9p a month  more, on the second time he was paying the 4.84% rate.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He said   
-hed been  overcharged since 2009.  When hed been on a fixed  rate from 2007  to 2009, 
hed been charged  on the correct  balance. But since then, Mortgage  Express had been 
Ref: DRN57754032calculating monthly  payments  based  on a higher, incorrect mortgage balance.  He wants  
a refund for the extra  he believes hes been  charged  since June 2009;
- he didnt feel it was right that if he made an overpayment, the balance  wouldnt be re-
calculated until the following  month;
- Mortgage Express final response  letter to his complaint hadnt contained any details 
about which department had sent the letter, or any information about  who he could  
contact to discuss the letter;
- Mortgage Express hadnt let him change his mortgage, so he felt trapped info a high 
interest rate.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He looked at Mr Ss mortgage statements  
from 2007 to 2018.  Mr S had been on a variable rate since June 2009. The number of days 
in a month varies,  but Mr Ss direct  debit didnt change every month. He explained to Mr S 
that this meant that in a longer month, the interest  debit for the month would be more  than 
Mr Ss direct  debit, meaning  the balance increased  slightly. And in a shorter month, the 
interest debit for the month would be less than Mr Ss direct debit, so the balance would 
reduce slightly. 
Whenever Mr Ss interest  rate changed, Mortgage Express recalculated  the payments based 
on the balance  at the time of the rate change. The adjudicator  said he was satisfied from 
looking at Mr Ss statements that his mortgage  had been calculated correctly.  
Looking at the way overpayments worked, the adjudicator said Mortgage Express had told 
him that interest was calculated monthly, meaning  that any overpayment would take effect  
from the following  month. The adjudicator had looked at Mr Ss mortgage terms and 
conditions, and these  said that the interest period ran from the first to the last day of each 
month.
Finally, the adjudicator said he understood why Mr S was unhappy at not being able to 
change his rate. The mortgage offer had said that after the initial fixed rate from 2007 to 
2009, the mortgage would revert to the standard variable rate for the rest of the mortgage 
term. Although sometimes it was possible to change to a new rate, Mortgage Express no 
longer offered new products,  so it couldnt  offer Mr S another  rate.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied. He said that Mortgage Express  shouldnt have added an unexplained 
amount to his mortgage balance. This meant  it had calculated  his payments on the wrong 
balance since 2009. Mr S hadnt  authorised this. And he said that for an interest only 
mortgage, the mortgage balance should stay the same every  month.
Mr S also said that every  time he rang Mortgage  Express, they told him a different balance  
figure. He sent us detailed spreadsheets of his calculations, which  he said showed  he was 
being overcharged. For the year July 2018 to June 2019, hed calculated  that Mortgage  
Express would have  taken £7,409.28  in payments.  The actual interest due on £145,545, 
calculated according  to the number of days in each month,  should  be £7,409.28. So hed be 
overcharged by £1.04 during the year.  He also sent calculations which  he said showed  hed 
been overcharged by £1.55  in the year 2007  to 2008.
The adjudicator wrote again to Mr S. He explained that interest was calculated monthly, but 
as the days in the month vary, the amount of interest  added  to the mortgage fluctuated. So 
Ref: DRN57754033the balance would sometimes be a bit higher, and sometimes lower.  He gave examples from 
February and March 2008. The adjudicator also set out the interest  rates which Mr S had 
been charged throughout the mortgage.
Mr S remained unhappy.  He said he was shocked  that this service couldnt see the mistakes 
which Mortgage Express had made  since the start of his mortgage. He sent another  
spreadsheet and asked  us to compare the mortgage  statements for the whole of his 
mortgage, with his spreadsheet calculations. He said that Mortgage Express  had added the 
June 2007 interest  payment of £74.08 to his balance, and had then calculated interest on 
top of interest.  Mr S said this was the reason his balance kept increasing, and it was against 
his mortgage terms and conditions.
Mr S sent further details  and calculations. He said the problem had started on 1 July 2007 
with a 40p error by Mortgage Express.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overcharging
I must first explain to Mr S that this service  doesnt provide a detailed  accounting service. So 
it isnt my role to look at every amount which Mortgage Express has debited to Mr Ss 
mortgage since 28 June  2007, and compare  it to Mr Ss calculations.  The amounts he 
believes hes been overcharged are relatively  small  generally around £1 a year. I 
appreciate that Mr S feels very strongly  that Mortgage Express  hasnt treated him fairly, 
because he believes hes been overcharged.  But I can only look more generally at the way 
Mortgage Express has conducted Mr Ss mortgage.
Mr S is unhappy that £74.08 for the interest  from 28 to 30 June 2007 was added  to his 
mortgage account, and that interest was charged  on it. But this amount was payable  
because Mr S had the mortgage advance on 28 June, and interest was due on it under the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage.  
Mr S believes this £74.08  was responsible  for his balance increasing. Although this would 
have had a small impact,  I dont consider it was the reason why Mr Ss balance varied over 
the years. The balance  went up  and down  over the years,  and it was because of the way 
interest was calculated. The adjudicator set this out in detail in his letters to Mr S. 
As Ive said,  its important to say that I havent  looked at every  interest  debit and payment 
received over the 12 years of Mr Ss mortgage.  We dont provide that type of accounting 
service. The balance varied every month, but I havent seen anything to show that Mortgage 
Express calculated interest  in a way that was contrary to the terms and conditions  of Mr Ss 
mortgage. 
And I would point out that the amounts  are very small.  For example,  Mr S has calculated that 
he was overcharged  by £1.55  in the first year of the mortgage. The highest  balance Ive 
seen on the lenders records was just over £146,000, and more often it was close  to Mr Ss 
original figure at around £145,500. For example, the last figure I have, which was for early 
March 2019, was £145,560.38. 
Ref: DRN57754034As I havent  seen any evidence that Mortgage Express  calculated Mr Ss mortgage 
incorrectly or in a way which broke the terms and conditions of his mortgage, I dont require 
the lender to do more. 
I realise that Mr S will be unhappy  that I havent  made detailed comparisons for every 
payment and interest debit. If he doesnt  accept  this final decision, its open  to him to obtain 
detailed accounting  advice and consider court action,  but hell be aware that with the small 
amounts involved,  this might be an expensive option.
Overpayment calculations
The adjudicator correctly pointed out that Mr Ss mortgage terms and conditions  set out that 
his interest period runs from the first day of each month  until and including the last day of 
each month. However, as the interest on Mr Ss account is calculated on a daily basis,  any 
additional credits  to the account during the month would be reflected in the calculation. But, 
importantly, Mr Ss mortgage statements dont show that hes yet made any overpayments. 
So his complaint here is about Mortgage Express  policy, rather  than any actual detriment 
hes suffered. Its the role of the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  to say 
whether or not a businesss  policies are acceptable.
This services role is to consider whether or not a business has acted unfairly towards a 
customer, and theres no evidence  that Mr S has made any overpayments  where Mortgage 
Express has treated him unfairly.
Final response letter
I understand why Mr S was frustrated that Mortgage  Express  final response  letter  dated 
22 October didnt have contact details for the person  or department which  sent it. Theres an 
unreadable signature, with the words Customer Response at the bottom of the letter.  
There is a phone number  at the bottom of on the first page  of the letter,  but I agree with Mr S 
that it was unprofessional  not to include more details of the sender  their name,  and either 
job title or department. But we wouldnt award  compensation  for an annoyance of this type. 
Our role isnt to fine or punish a business, which is the role of the regulator, the Financial  
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  For us to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact 
of a businesss actions  has been  greater than a minor inconvenience or upset. So although  I 
sympathise with Mr S, I dont award compensation for Mortgage Expresss letter.
Not being able to change  his mortgage product for a cheaper interest  rate
Mortgage Express no longer offers new products. So it couldnt offer Mr S a better deal. Mr S 
had an early repayment charge on his mortgage until his fixed rate expired in 2009. But 
since then, no financial penalty would have applied if Mr S wanted to move to another  lender 
in order to get a better deal. So he could have moved  without penalty  at any point  after 
June 2009. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ref: DRN57754035Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5775403