K820x#14complaint
Miss I says MYJAR  Limited (Myjar)  irresponsibly lent to her. 
background 
This complaint is about two loans that Myjar provided to Miss I - heres  a table setting out 
details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 17/08/2017 30/08/2017 3 £500.00 £263.73
2 17/09/2017 Outstanding 12 £1,100.00 £169.70
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Is complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly lent. 
Miss I disagreed. She mainly says that if Myjar had carried out the appropriate credit  checks 
it should have  done, it wouldve clearly seen  that she was caught  up in a payday loan cycle. 
So the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss I could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Is complaint. 
Before lending to Miss I, Myjar asked Miss I for information on her financial situation,  such  as 
her monthly income and her outgoings,  including other creditor  repayments,  and it carried  
out credit  checks.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about  whether it was fair for Myjar to lend to 
Miss I.
loan 1
When Miss I took out her first loan I think Myjar was entitled to rely on the information Miss I 
provided. This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing as shed said her 
monthly income was more  than £2,000 and her expenses were  less than half this amount.
Ref: DRN51542922At this early stage, Miss I didnt have any track record  with the lender that shouldve  alerted 
Myjar to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there  was anything in the 
information she provided or the information Myjar had, which meant  that Myjar shouldve 
taken steps to verify the information Miss I had declared. 
I dont think a proportionate check for this loan wouldve required Myjar to ask her any more 
probing questions  than it did- or to look at Miss Is bank statements for instance. 
So I dont  uphold Miss Is complaint  about loan 1.
loan 2
Looking at the information it seems  Miss I provided to Myjar  it still looks to me like the 
monthly repayments she had to make on loan 2 shouldve been  affordable  for her. And Myjar 
could see that Miss I had made her repayments to loan 1 on time  so there wasnt anything  
in her borrowing history at that stage with Myjar to lead it to think that she might be having 
serious money problems.  
But I think the fact that Miss I was asking to borrow more than twice the amount shed taken 
out on loan 1 a month  earlier, and barely  two weeks after repaying that loan, shouldve 
prompted Myjar to think carefully about whether it had a good  enough  understanding  of her 
financial circumstances so it could  make a fair lending  decision.
I appreciate Miss I was paying for other  debt elsewhere. And the checks Myjar did flagged  
this up. But I can also see that Miss I declared an amount for her outgoing monthly credit 
commitments that doesnt seem  unreasonable to me. And Myjar took this into account when 
looking at affordability  overall. So I dont think it was wrong for Myjar to rely on the 
information Miss I provided  in relation  to how much she paid on a monthly basis towards that 
debt. 
And Ive seen nothing, and havent  been provided with any information, to suggest that 
further checks to verify what  Miss I was saying wouldve  shown that providing loan 2 to her 
was unfair.  
Miss I has mentioned that her bank statements wouldve shown what her actual 
circumstances were. But, I dont think Myjar did anything wrong when it made  its lending  
decision without asking  to check Miss Is bank statements.  
At this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve required 
Myjar to ask Miss I to prove what she was declaring or check  other information sources to 
verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
And having had the benefit of seeing  Miss Is bank  statements, I think its fair to say that 
even if Myjar had looked at this information before making its lending decision,  it wouldnt 
have seen enough to show that loan 2 was likely to be unsustainable for her.
I can see that Miss Is indebtedness to other  high cost lenders increased after shed taken 
out loan 2 with Myjar  but thats not information that wouldve shown on her statement 
earlier in the month when  she arranged  loan 2. And I cant  see that Miss I gave Myjar any 
indication that her borrowing elsewhere was at the stage where it was causing her serious 
money problems during  her application for loan 2.  
Ref: DRN51542923Im sorry  that Miss I found repaying these  loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Myjar obtained. 
But in order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to safely say Myjar did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think  that Myjar did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Miss I. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss I but I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
I take this opportunity to remind Myjar (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it should 
discuss payment options with Miss I and treat her fairly and sympathetically if Miss I needs 
further time to pay what she still owes. 
And if Miss I would like help to manage her finances  theres  more  information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5154292