K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC declined her chargeback  claim,  closed her account 
without notice, and didnt let her have access to her closing balance.  She also complains 
about the amount of time she spent on the phone to Lloyds about the chargeback.
background
In December 2018 Mrs H bought a number of Christmas presents, and paid over £410 for 
them on her Lloyds debit  card.  She says she never received them, and so she contacted 
Lloyds and raised a chargeback dispute.  This was unsuccessful, and Lloyds told her that this 
was because the merchant had proved that the goods had been delivered. At the same  time 
(March 2019), Lloyds  decided to close her account, which was done in June.
Mrs H complained that Lloyds didnt tell her it was going to close  her account.  She said she 
didnt receive the letter  telling her this, and that she only discovered her account was closed 
when she tried to pay for petrol and her card wasnt accepted. She said her account had 
about £1,400 in it, which wasnt  provided  to her. She also pointed out that the evidence  
provided by the merchant  was contradictory. The signature on the delivery form did not 
match hers.  She said that Lloyds should not have accepted  this evidence. The merchant had 
initially told her that one delivery  service had delivered her goods, and then told her it was 
another delivery service. It had told her that her goods had been  delivered in three parcels, 
and then in one. She also said that she had been forced to spend a great deal of time on the 
phone to Lloyds  about this, on a premium number, during  which shed had to repeat herself. 
In May 2019  she brought this complaint to our Service.
Lloyds said that it had raised  a chargeback dispute with Visa, but the merchant had provided 
evidence that it had delivered  the goods,  and the Visa chargeback rules did not require 
evidence of a signature.  When the chargeback claim was declined, Lloyds had appealed, but 
without success,  so it said it had done  all it could  do. It had given Mrs H written notice about 
the account closure in March, in line with the account terms and conditions. It said it had told 
Mrs H how long a chargeback might take, and it had been her choice to keep phoning  before 
the process was completed,  so it didnt agree that it should have  to pay her compensation 
for her time on the phone.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said Lloyds had followed Visas 
chargeback rules. She accepted  that Lloyds had closed the account  after giving proper 
notice, and that Mrs H could collect her closing balance by taking  proof of her identity to a 
local branch.
Mrs H did not accept  that opinion. She provided links to news articles about problems with 
delivery drivers. She reiterated the various  ways that the merchant had contradicted itself, 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that the signature on the delivery record does  not match Mrs Hs signature  
as recorded by the bank  in connection with her account. I agree with Mrs Hs opinion that 
this is probably because the delivery  driver wrote her signature  (actually its just a random 
Ref: DRN59939802squiggle) when  he dropped the parcel  off. But under Visas chargeback rules, there is no 
requirement that goods be signed for, or that any signature which  is provided  by the 
merchant must match the cardholders signature.  All that is required is that the merchant 
provide documentation to prove that the cardholder received  the goods, and as Visa runs the 
chargeback scheme,  it is Visa which decides  whether to accept the documentation  provided 
or not. So I dont  think its Lloydss  fault that Visa accepted the merchants evidence, 
notwithstanding the points which Mrs H has made  about it (which I do not lightly dismiss). 
Lloyds appealed that decision, and so I think Lloyds  did as much as it could. If Mr H wishes  
to pursue the matter further,  then she should take this up with the merchant directly, and 
consider taking legal advice about her options  in this regard.
Mrs H phoned the bank five times while the chargeback  process was still ongoing.  Its 
unfortunate that these calls took,  on average, half an hour each. But I dont  think  she had to 
call the bank five times,  so I wont award compensation for that.
The banks final response letter  is correctly addressed, and I accept  that it was sent.  If it was 
not delivered by the royal mail, that would  not be the banks fault. That letter refers to the 
closure of Mrs Hs account, and it also says that Lloyds had recently written to her about 
that, so I accept that proper notice was given,  twice. Mrs H can collect her closing balance (if 
she hasnt already) by taking a photo identity document  to her local branch.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5993980