K820x#14complaint
Mr H says that Valour Finance Limited,  trading as Savvy.co.uk, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Savvy gave  Mr H a loan of £750 in July 2016. There was an additional processing fee of 
£75. At the outset,  the loan was to be repaid over 18 months at £68.76  a month.  Mr H repaid 
the loan in September 2016.
Mr H says that he couldnt afford to repay  this loan and only did so by borrowing from 
another lender. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Hs complaint. She thought  that Savvy had carried out 
proportionate checks and that it wasnt wrong  lend to Mr H. The adjudicator said that as 
Mr H told Savvy that he intended  to use the loan to consolidate other debts, she didnt think  
it acted unfairly. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said that Savvy  may have known  that he was 
experiencing financial problems but still gave him the loan.  Mr H said he had a second  bank  
account at the relevant time but Savvy didnt ask about that. He said that the only reason he 
repaid the loan early was that he borrowed again from another  lender.  Mr H said hed had 
another, similar complaint  upheld.  
The adjudicator said that we look at each complaint on its own merits. She said that the 
credit checks Savvy  carried out wouldnt have led it to conclude  that it shouldnt lend to Mr H. 
The adjudicator said that Savvy relied  on the information Mr H provided about his intention to 
repay existing borrowing  with the new loan.  The adjudicator remained of the view that the 
checks Savvy carried out were proportionate. 
Mr H said that Savvy  should  have questioned  the payments he sent to his second bank 
account, which he was using for his everyday living expenses.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should  have carried  out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things, such as the amount of the loan, the level of repayments  and the 
consumers income and expenditure. The relevant regulations, which  included  the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  (FCA)  consumer  credit sourcebook (CONC),  were  not prescriptive 
about exactly what checks businesses  like Savvy should carry out.
Ref: DRN59259112what did Savvy do?
Savvy and Mr H spoke by phone  and Ive listened  to the phone  call. Savvy obtained  
information about Mr Hs income, which it said was £1,176. Savvy  also obtained information 
about Mr Hs general monthly living costs,  including expenditure such  as transport, food and 
housing expenses. Mr H told Savvy that he was living with his parents and didnt pay rent or 
bills or buy food. His monthly expenditure, not including credit commitments but including  
phone costs, socialising,  clothes, car insurance, road tax and fuel, was modest, at around 
£258. 
Savvy also carried out a credit search.  It cant now provide the results of that search but its 
provided the results  of one it carried out in October 2016. Its likely that it was similar to the 
one Savvy saw in July 2016 and showed other borrowing but no defaults or delinquencies.  In 
its final response to Mr H, Savvy said that the credit search showed  that Mr H spent 
approximately £761 a month  on repaying  existing debt.
Savvy asked  Mr H about his credit commitments  and overdraft costs during  the phone  call. 
Mr H said that he wanted to repay short-term loans and consolidate his debt using the loan 
from Savvy. Savvy decided to approve the loan.  
did Savvy  do enough?
Ive thought carefully about whether Savvy carried out proportionate checks before lending to 
Mr H. On balance, I think  it did and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr H feels strongly that Savvy didnt lend responsibly. He doesnt think it did 
enough to find out about his financial position.  In particular,  he says that Savvy should have 
asked him about  his second bank account. 
I dont think Savvy acted  unfairly in proceeding to lend to Mr H on the basis of the 
information it had. In the circumstances here,  Savvy was entitled to rely on the information 
Mr H gave about both his financial position  and his intention to repay short-term debt with 
this loan. 
Savvy came  to the reasonable conclusion that given Mr Hs income,  his modest  living 
expenses and his existing credit repayments, he could  afford  to repay  £68.76 a month. Mr H 
told Savvy  that hed use this loan to consolidate  short-term debt, so his monthly  credit  
repayments would be lower when hed done that. I dont think Savvy was wrong to conclude  
that Mr H could afford to make the repayments  for this loan. 
Im sorry  that Mr H was struggling financially. I dont  doubt that this must have been a difficult 
time for him. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that Savvy was aware of that or should have 
been aware of it. In the particular circumstances  here, Savvy  didnt have any reason to ask 
Mr H for his bank statements for his second account. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  think that Savvy acted irresponsibly when it lent to 
Mr H. So, Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN59259113my final decision
I do not uphold  this compliant against  Valour Finance  Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925911