K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the way Vanquis Bank Limited handled her queries  about 
increasing her credit  card limit. 
background
Miss W has a credit  card account with Vanquis. In June and July 2018 she spoke to it about 
whether her credit limit would be increased. Miss W believed that shed been given 
contradictory information about why her credit limit had not been  increased and what she 
needed to do to for it to be increased,  so she raised a complaint. 
Vanquis didnt  agree  that it had misled  Miss W. It listened to the call she had with it and said 
its advisor had correctly told Miss W that her limit had not been  increased due to low 
utilisation. Vanquis told Miss W it would review her limit regularly and gave some  general 
advice about improving her chances  of having  her limit increased.  
Miss W wasnt happy with the response  and called Vanquis again to discuss it. She clarified 
she was unhappy  the guidance she was given about account  usage  and credit limit reviews 
had been contradictory. She said the level of service shed  received  was poor. Vanquis 
agreed to look into her concerns further. It subsequently wrote to Miss W to say it had 
reviewed her second call and it didnt think it had given contradictory information.
Miss W didnt agree,  so she referred a complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded 
that Vanquis had not misled Miss W and was entitled to choose  not to increase her credit 
limit. Miss W disagreed  and didnt think our investigator had addressed  her main point; that 
she received contradictory advice from Vanquis.  Miss W asked for an ombudsmans  
decision, so the case has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, financial businesses are entitled to use their commercial discretion to 
decide the credit limit they apply to their customers accounts, as well as whether and when 
they vary it. In this case it told Miss W it had not increased her credit  limit because  her 
account had not been utilised enough. It was entitled to make that decision, and in doing  so 
it has not done anything wrong.  
However, from what Miss W has said its clear that she feels strongly  that she was given 
contradictory information about steps  she could take which  would lead to her credit limit 
being increased. 
I listened to the calls Miss W had with Vanquis. In each call it consistently told her credit limit 
had not been increased as she had not used the full extent  of her available  funds.  And 
although it initially told her it would review her credit limit every four months,  it later clarified  
that new accounts are reviewed more regularly. It also consistently  suggested that Miss W 
should use her available credit more frequently. Importantly,  Vanquis didnt give Miss W any 
guarantee that following  its advice would mean  her credit limit would be increased. Overall  I 
dont think this advice  was contradictory  or inappropriate. 
Ref: DRN53054672Its understandable  Miss W is frustrated  if she thinks she has managed her account in the 
way she was advised to, and still hasnt  had her credit limit increased. But Vanquis is not 
required to tell Miss W exactly  what she would  need to do ensure her credit  limit is 
increased. And it is entitled to use its commercial discretion  to decide whether or not to 
change Miss Ws credit  limit, even if she did follow all of its advice. As a result, I dont think  
Vanquis has treated  Miss W unfairly.
Lastly, Miss W commented that she was dissatisfied  with the overall level of service she 
received from Vanquis. But I found  that each Vanquis advisor Miss W spoke to dealt  with the 
situations appropriately and offered a level of customer service Id reasonably expect. 
In summary,  and for the reasons set out above, I do not think  Vanquis has treated Miss W 
unfairly, misled her or provided poor service.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5305467