K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Positive Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd (Positive Solutions) mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out a mortgage  through Positive  Solutions with a major  lender in 2006. At 
some point after the initial application, she was sold a PPI policy  which would have 
covered her mortgage  repayments if she couldnt  work due to an accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. 
Mrs W says she didnt know that it was optional. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Positive Solutions 
disagrees, so the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
Positive Solutions has previously disputed  liability  for this case. And it has also disputed  that 
Mrs W made her complaint within the time limits  allowed.  Both of these issues  have been 
dealt with separately and ombudsmens final decisions  have been  made  on these, so I wont  
be revisiting these elements. I am solely looking at the sale itself on the basis  that Positive 
Solutions was responsible  for that sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when making my decision. Having  done so, Im upholding Mrs Ws 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Positive Solutions had a responsibility to make  sure Mrs W had enough  information  about 
the policy so she could make an informed decision about whether to buy the policy.  It was 
important that Mrs W understood the main terms and conditions, including  any exclusions 
that would  be applied if she needed to claim.  
Positive Solutions hasnt  been able to provide any information about how it did this for 
Mrs W. So I cant be satisfied that she got all the information she needed. Mrs W has told 
this service she had a chronic and potentially life limiting medical condition at the point of 
sale. If she was absent from work  because  of this condition she wouldnt have been able to 
make a successful claim. I think this condition was the most likely  reason for her to be off 
work in the long term. And I think if Mrs W had understood  that this condition wouldnt be 
covered as part of her sickness cover then she wouldnt have bought the policy. 
So, I think Mrs W lost out as a result of Positive  Solutions actions and I uphold her complaint.
putting things right
Positive Solutions should put Mrs W in the position  shed be in if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
Positive Solutions should:
Pay Mrs W the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until she gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.*
Ref: DRN53402102If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Positive Solutions 
can take off what she got for the claim  from the amount  it owes  her;
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Positive Solutions to take off tax from this interest.  Positive 
Solutions must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and direct Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5340210