K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Miss B complain that Paratus AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans  
FHL) unfairly declined  their request to port their mortgage. They say they chose this 
mortgage because  it was portable  but Paratus has now changed the terms and conditions  
and declined  their request  unfairly.   
background
In 2006 Mr C and Miss B took out a mortgage with GMAC-RFC for around  £100,000 having 
received advice from a broker. The mortgage  was taken out on a repayment basis,  over a 
30-year term.
During the term of Mr C and Miss Bs mortgage  GMAC-RFC Limited transferred the 
mortgage to Paratus. Foundation Home Loans (FHL) is a trading name for Paratus.
In April 2019, Mr C contacted Paratus to check the position of his mortgage. He explained 
that he was looking  to move to a new house and asked about taking his mortgage with him, 
which is a process commonly known as porting. 
Paratus said they were unable to port the mortgage as this is no longer a facility offered. It 
suggested that Mr C and Miss B speak to an Independent  Financial adviser (IFA) and said 
that if they decided to take a new mortgage deal with them, this would need to be done  via a 
broker rather than directly.
Unhappy with this, Mr C spoke to a senior member of staff who explained  that since  he took 
out his mortgage, the lenders policy had changed,  and they were unable  to port his 
mortgage. Mr C said that it breached their contract  with him and raised a formal  complaint. 
Paratus replied to the complaint in their final response letter of 23 April 2019. In this it said 
that it cant offer direct mortgage  advice. It also said that mortgage porting was not included  
in the original terms and conditions  but was included in the mortgage offer, subject to the 
request meeting the relevant criteria. Paratus  said that their criteria changed in June 2010 
and it stopped offering porting as a mortgage  facility. 
Mr C and Miss B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought  their 
original mortgage  offer gave Mr C and Miss B a reasonable expectation that if they wanted 
to port their mortgage, the request  would  be considered by Paratus. He didnt think  Paratus 
had fairly  considered the request so thought it should pay Mr C and Miss B £400 
compensation for the loss of expectation  and the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Paratus disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint and make a final 
decision.
Paratus also referenced  another  decision issued  by this service. Please note that whilst 
some complaints may appear similar, and broad  principles may apply, each case is 
considered by this service  individually on its own facts  and merits. In what  follows,  Ive 
considered Mr C and Miss Bs specific complaint based on the facts  relevant to their 
situation. 
Ref: DRN52604252my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 22 December 2020 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was this mortgage  portable?
Mr C and Miss B have said that they took this particular mortgage  out - and paid a 
higher rate - in preference  to others  available  on the market at the time,  because they 
were told it was portable. They  have said that, at the time of taking the mortgage, 
they were planning on moving in the not too distant future so it was very important to 
them to take a mortgage that was portable.
Paratus has accepted that it was initially portable  but it was only the fixed  rate 
product that applied  for the first two years  which was. As this had expired when Mr C 
and Miss B applied to port the mortgage in 2019, it has said there was nothing 
technically to port, and its said that they wouldnt incur an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) if they chose to re-mortgage with another lender. 
But Mr C and Miss B were clearly  under  the impression that the mortgage was 
portable for the duration  of the term. 
I agree  portability doesnt mean transferring the mortgage to a new property, it 
means transferring  the key features of one mortgage to another  on a new property. 
So the first question for me to decide  is whether there was anything to port here  or 
whether, as Paratus  says,  there  was nothing  to port once the initial  fixed  rate expired.
Ive considered the mortgage documentation  provided to Mr C and Miss B at the time 
and I think there is a conflict as to whether  the product or the whole of the mortgage  
was portable.  Section 8 of the mortgage  conditions booklet said: If, in the future, you 
want to move home you may be able to transfer this mortgage product  to a new 
property without incurring  any early repayment charge. This option is available 
subject to your meeting  certain criteria and our approval. (my emphasis)
Then, in section 10 of the mortgage offer under the title - What  happens if you move 
house? it says: you can keep this mortgage should  you move  to a new property. For 
details see the attached  conditions. (my emphasis).  
Both the mortgage  offer and the mortgage conditions  are part of the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage contract  between Paratus and Mr C and Miss B. 
Certain words and phrases are defined in the terms and conditions. Where there is a 
specific definition, that is to be used. Where  there  isnt, words and phrases have their 
normal natural meaning. 
The terms and conditions  dont define porting. Ive considered the terms and 
conditions and product is not defined either. 
Ref: DRN52604253Here, theres conflict about what can be ported  the mortgage  or the mortgage 
product. If the mortgage can be ported, that is not restricted  to the initial  interest 
rate, and the mortgage as a whole could be ported. 
If only the mortgage  product can be ported,  thats more restrictive.  Its commonly 
understood that product refers to the interest  rate applicable to a mortgage. And 
whilst this mortgage was taken out on an initial two-year fixed  rate, it then reverted to 
a rate of 1.95% above the Bank of England base rate for the life of the mortgage. 
This is a tracker rate, linked to an external  benchmark, rather  than the lenders 
standard variable  or other default  rate. In my view, both the initial fixed rate and the 
later tracker rate are key features specific to this mortgage and linked together.  The 
product comprises both the initial rate and the reversion rate.
As a general principle,  where there is ambiguity in a contract I would  resolve it in 
favour of the consumers,  who are the weaker party not able to individually  negotiate 
the terms and conditions. That means  I prefer the view that the mortgage, rather  
than the mortgage product is portable. But even if Im wrong about that and what is 
portable is the mortgage product, I think that includes the reversion tracker rate. So 
either way I think there is something to port here beyond  just the initial  two year fixed  
rate product  as this mortgage offered an attractive rate for the life of the mortgage. 
So I think, at the time this mortgage was taken out, it was portable for the duration of 
the term, not just the initial two year fixed rate period. 
Has the contract  changed since?
Paratus has said that it wrote to Mr C and Miss B to let them  know that their lender 
was changing  from GMAC-RFC Limited  to Paratus,  and then to FHL. Ive considered 
these letters and noted that they both say that none  of the terms or payments are 
changing. That means the terms Ive quoted  above remain  part of the mortgage. 
However, in my view portability was a key feature  of this mortgage, and one that  as 
Ive said  applied  throughout  its life. The terms Ive quoted above entitle Mr C and 
Miss B to make a porting  application, and require  Paratus  to consider any application  
they make. Although not explicitly stated, it is in my view implied in that term that 
Paratus will give any application reasonable consideration  and not unreasonably  
refuse it.
However, Paratus has told us that it made  a policy decision  not to allow porting of its 
mortgages. In other words, it will not in any circumstances even consider any porting  
application Mr C and Miss B might  make.
This is not in accordance with what the mortgage contract  says  the contract does 
require reasonable consideration of a porting application.
As Ive said,  porting  was sold as  and chosen by Mr C and Miss B as  a key feature 
of this mortgage. The relevant rules - specifically  MCOB  7.6.1 state  that a firm must 
inform their customers if there is a material change  to the contract. Here,  Mr C and 
Miss B clearly  had a portable mortgage yet when they called up to ask to exercise  
their contractual right to port, they were told that they couldnt. No application could 
even be considered. 
Ref: DRN52604254This mortgage was clearly  advertised  to be portable  and was a key reason  that Mr B 
and Miss C took it out, and they have  said they paid more for it compared  to others 
available at the time  which I dont doubt.  So I think that failure  to give fair 
consideration to their application could be considered  a breach of contract  unless 
Paratus decided to remove that obligation  from the contract. But if it did decide  that, 
the removal of the right to port, a key feature of this mortgage, would have been a 
material change to the terms which should have  been communicated to Mr B and 
Miss C  but it wasnt. 
Im satisfied that the mortgage contract continued to make this a portable  mortgage, 
entitling Mr B and Miss C to make a porting application and have  it reasonably 
considered, at the point at which they applied. 
The request  to port
When Mr C contacted Paratus asking to port the mortgage, he was simply told that 
he couldnt as porting  was no longer possible,  and so an application was never made 
or considered in detail. 
Ive carefully considered  Paratus reasons for not allowing Mr C and Miss B to port 
their mortgage. It has given a detailed explanation as to why it no longer offers  
porting as a facility, which essentially  comes  down to its decision that porting is no 
longer commercially viable. Its said that to fund the porting of this mortgage  would be 
more expensive than the interest it would attract. Its given  us evidence of its costs, 
and I accept that allowing porting would increase Paratus  costs to the point at which 
it was making a significant loss on this mortgage.
As Ive said,  no application  was considered.  But if one was, and was then refused for 
this reason, I wouldnt consider that to be a fair reason to refuse a porting application. 
Ive said that porting  is a key feature of this mortgage, and one that Paratus is 
required to give fair consideration to  and, impliedly, not refuse unreasonably. While 
I understand that Paratus own costs have increased  since the mortgage was taken 
out, or since  it took it over from GMAC, I dont think thats a relevant consideration. 
A mortgage is a long-term product, priced  accordingly at its start. I dont think  its fair 
for Paratus  to remove features from the mortgage contract, which  Mr C and Miss B 
are entitled  to benefit from, because the mortgage  is (or would be) no longer 
profitable.  
Business costs can fluctuate over time and I dont think its fair for Paratus to disapply 
one of the key features of the mortgage because  it comes  at a cost that wasnt  
anticipated when  the mortgage  was entered into. GMAC set the features of the 
mortgage, set the price  it wanted Mr C and Miss B to pay for those features, and 
entered into an agreement with them. If GMAC got that wrong, or didnt anticipate 
changes in cost base over the life of the mortgage, I dont think  its fair to expect Mr C 
and Miss B to have  the burden of that failure. I accept that Paratus took this 
mortgage over from GMAC but in doing so it agreed  to take on liability  for the whole 
mortgage and so would need  to give fair consideration to any contractual features. 
What criteria did Mr C and Miss B need to pass?
Ref: DRN52604255Paratus has said that the original offer said that porting would always  be subject to 
certain criteria  that could change at any time and that the right to port was never 
guaranteed. 
I think thats reasonable. Its fair to expect porting to be subject  to fair lending criteria.  
Just as Ive said it wasnt  fair for Paratus to withhold  porting because it was 
expensive for it to do, I also wouldnt think  it fair to expect it to allow  porting if, for 
example, what Mr C and Miss B wanted  it to do increased its risk. So it would be 
reasonable for there  to be lending criteria  such as whether the new property  is good  
security, loan to value,  and so on for any new application to be considered against.
Thats why the agreement doesnt  give Mr B and Miss C the right to port, it gives  
them the right to have  an application fairly  considered. The issue here is that Paratus 
failed to give their application fair consideration.
And because of this, Mr C and Miss B decided to repay the mortgage so have lost 
out on the chance to have their application  considered. They may not have passed 
the criteria but because their application was not even made to be considered  
because they were told they couldnt port, I dont know for certain.  
Putting things right
Since the request to port the mortgage  was declined, Mr C and Miss B sold their 
property and paid off the mortgage. They have said they are advanced in their 
purchase of a property  through  the help to buy scheme and have secured a 
mortgage to fund this. 
This is a different type of mortgage specifically tailored to help with this scheme and 
so I dont think it would have been possible for their existing mortgage  to be ported 
over to this. But its important to note that Mr C and Miss B only took these actions 
because they were told that it was not possible to port their existing mortgage and 
keep their favourable  rate. As a result  they re-considered  the type of property they 
were looking  at. They were not contemplating help to buy at the time they asked 
Paratus to port.
Because time has moved  on and its now not possible  for the mortgage  to be ported 
as its been paid off in full, Im not able to require Paratus to consider an application 
to port. But I do think Paratus should  make a payment  to Mr C and Miss B in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset that this matter has caused them  and the loss of 
expectation that their mortgage could be ported. 
Having considered all of the factors in this case, Im minded to say that a payment of 
£750 should be made to Mr C and Miss B. This is in recognition of the loss of 
expectation and inconvenience that Mr C and Miss B have suffered when they were 
told they were unable to apply  to port their mortgage. Having considered  all of the 
circumstances, I think  this is fair. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct  Paratus  
AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans) to:
Ref: DRN52604256pay Mr C and Miss B £750  for the trouble  and upset caused by their refusal to 
consider a porting application
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C and Miss B responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision.
Paratus didnt accept  my decision and responded to say, in summary,  that:
Mr C was told in a telephone conversation in February 2011 that they no longer offer 
porting as a result of the changes that impacted the company
The change (removal  of porting  as a facility)  was communicated  to Mr B and Miss C 
in the annual mortgage statements issued to them between  2017 until redemption in 
2019
Mr C and Miss B were  made aware  prior to their request to port that it was no longer 
an option available to them
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered  my provisional decision  in light of the comments made. 
I understand that Mr C and Miss B were made aware that Paratus no longer offered porting 
and agree that it sent information  to them to this effect. 
But these  notifications didnt tell Mr C and Miss B that their contractual  right to have a porting 
request had been removed entirely. The call note says: Mr called to discuss porting. 
Confirmed to Mr no porting avail (available).
And the mortgage  statements say: your Mortgage  offer may have contained a statement  
that in the future, subject  to certain  criteria, you may be able to transfer  (port) your mortgage 
product to a new property  without incurring any early repayment charges. The purpose of 
this notification is to confirm to you that Paratus AMC do not currently offer Porting. (my 
emphasis). This is on page 4 of the statements under  the section Additional Information and 
I dont consider this sufficient to notify  them that a material  change  to the terms and a key 
feature of their mortgage had been made.  I also think these notifications suggest that it was 
unavailable at the time - rather than removed altogether. 
But regardless of when  Mr C and Miss B were  told that porting was no longer possible - it 
doesnt change  the fact that it was unfair to remove this contractual  right to have a porting 
application considered, which is the key issue here.  The mortgage contract continued to 
make this a portable  mortgage - despite  these notifications. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  porting  was sold as  and chosen  by Mr C and 
Miss B as  a key feature of this mortgage.  And Mr B and Miss C had this contractual  right 
for the life of the mortgage.  Paratus took over this mortgage from GMAC who set the 
features and price  of this mortgage.  In taking it over, Paratus accepted liability for the whole 
of this mortgage as well as any key features. 
Ref: DRN52604257And a key feature of this mortgage was to have a porting application  considered. Whilst I 
understand that Paratus may have  made  a company  decision not to offer porting  anymore  
for cost reasons, its not fair for it to refuse  to consider an application by Mr C and Miss B 
because of this. 
Simply knowing  that Paratus was not currently offering the option  to port, doesnt  change the 
fact that Mr C and Miss B had a contractual term that said an application to port their 
mortgage would be considered. For these  reasons, Ive not been  persuaded to change my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Paratus 
AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans) to:
pay Mr C and Miss B £750  for the trouble  and upset caused by their refusal to 
consider a porting application
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5260425