K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) (Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five short term loans Cashfloat provided to Mr T between 
September 2015 to May 2016  although  Mr T appears to have had some  problems 
repaying the final loan and an outstanding balance remains. Mr Ts borrowing history  is as 
follows (I have rounded  the figures  for ease):
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment 
Amount
1 25/09/2015 30/10/2015 1 £250.00 £320.00
2 30/10/2015 31/12/2015 2 £300.00 £206.00
3 01/01/2016 31/03/2016 3 £400.00 £197.00
4 01/04/2016 31/05/2016 2 £200.00 £135.00
5 31/05/2016 outstanding 2 £350.00 £238.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. She thought the loans 4 and 5 shouldnt 
have been given. The adjudicator also thought  that any information about loan 5 should  be 
removed from Mr Ts credit record. 
Cashfloat had already  offered to refund to Mr T the interest he was charged on loan 5 but it 
didnt reply to the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me for decision 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN51244032the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Both Mr T and Cashfloat appear to have  accepted  the adjudicators findings about loans 1  
3. Because there doesnt appear to be an outstanding dispute about these loans I wont be 
making a finding  on these  loans in this decision.  But I have thought about these loans in the 
overall context of Mr Ts lending relationship. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.  Although Cashfloat did do a number of 
checks on Mr T throughout his relationship with the business, while  these seem  reasonable 
for the earlier loans  I think Cashfloat ought  to have realised that by loan 4 Mr T was starting  
to struggle with managing his money.  So like the adjudicator I also think this loan shouldnt 
have been given, for similar reasons. 
By this point  I think there was an indication that Mr T was having  problems repaying his 
previous loans. When Mr T came  back  to borrow more at loan 4, Cashfloat should have 
seen that Mr T had been borrowing for six months with only one day maximum between  the 
loans. So it was unlikely  that Mr T was going  to be able to repay  this loan without borrowing 
again and therefore he couldnt sustainably repay  this loan so the borrowing shouldnt have 
been given. 
This concern about Mr Ts borrowing is borne out by the fact he hasnt been able to repay 
loan 5. Mr T was returning to Cashfloat for repeat borrowing very shortly  after previously 
borrowing had been repaid  there  was no more than a one day gap  and with generally 
and upward trend in the amount borrowed. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
5. I say this because:
Ref: DRN51244033At this point Cashfloat ought to have  realised Mr T was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr T had taken out five loans within eight months with no gaps so 
was indebted  for most of that time.  So Cashfloat  ought to have realised it was more  
likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ts indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably. 
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan  5 was 
taken out eight months after Mr Ts first. And it was for a larger  amount than his first. 
Mr T had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Cashfloat  over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr T lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing for loan 5 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ts ability to access  mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 4 and loan 5 and Cashfloat should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
If Cashfloat has sold loan 5 to a debt purchaser  it should buy this back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back then it should  liaise  
with the debt purchaser to achieve the same results as outlined below -
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
rework loan 5 applying all payments made  by Mr T as if they went towards the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  Cashfloat needs to make sure it collects 
no more than the principal loan lent.
If and when the amount Mr T has paid exceeds  the amount  he was lent, any further  
amounts should  be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments that may have been 
made should be refunded to Mr T with 8% simple interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement; 
If after reworking loan 5 Mr T still has an outstanding principle sum then Cashfloat  
can use the refund to offset this balance.  If there  is any refund left over then this 
should be paid directly to Mr T;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Ts credit file.
Ref: DRN51244034 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest.  Cashfloat  must give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr T still has an outstanding  balance  due on loan 5, then Cashfloat  
should try and work together  with Mr T to come  to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in 
order to repay what is owed. But Id remind Cashfloat of its obligation to treat Mr T fairly.
In conclusion, I am upholding Mr Ts complaint about the borrowing he took for loan 4 and 5.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Western Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020..
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5124403