K822xcomplaint
Miss G says NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua) acted irresponsibly when  they gave her a credit 
card in 2012 and kept increasing her credit limit. 
background 
Miss G applied  for her credit card in August 2012 and the account was opened with a credit 
limit of £500.  Over  the next four years NewDay offered Miss G a total of eight credit card 
limit increases. By April 2016 her credit  card limit was £8,000.
Miss G says she had a high amount of unsecured debt when she applied  for her credit card 
and didnt have  the means to repay it. She says by giving  her another  credit  card and 
increasing her credit  card limit regularly NewDay contributed to her financial difficulties. She 
says they had a responsibility to make sure the lending was affordable and if they had done  
proper checks,  NewDay should have realised  that she was a in a difficult  financial situation.
NewDay say they did a credit check on Miss G before they gave her a credit card and she 
wasnt in any arrears  on her other  credit  cards. Her credit file showed no defaults or county 
court judgements (CCJs).  They also considered Miss Gs salary  and their internal lending 
criteria. NewDay pointed  out that they only gave Miss G a very low credit  limit of £500.
NewDay say that before offering any credit  limit increase they reviewed Miss Gs account. 
She was making  regular  payments and managed  her account well. They say Miss G had the 
option to decline  the credit  limit increase offers if she didnt want them. 
Miss G went  over her limit in 2017  and from that point on NewDay didnt offer her any 
increases. They say Miss G never asked them for help or advice. NewDay didnt uphold 
Miss Gs complaint but refunded  one over limit fee of £12 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought Miss Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss G disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Ive issued a provisional decision upholding Miss Gs complaint in part. I invited further  
comments from both parties. NewDay didnt provide any further comments. Miss G accepted 
my decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I had no further comments to consider 
the outcome of my decision remains the same.
Im upholding Miss Gs complaint in part. Ive repeated my reasoning again below. 
I firstly looked at whether NewDay should  have  given the credit card to Miss G in 2012. 
I appreciate Miss G had a large  amount of debt at the time and she feels  NewDay shouldnt  
have given her the card at all. However,  I have to take into account that NewDay lends to 
customers who often try to rebuild their credit  history or wouldnt receive a credit  card 
elsewhere. Miss G had a salary of £33,000 and the credit limit at the time was only £500. So 
on balance I think it wasnt inappropriate to give her the credit card.
Ref: DRN58600932I then looked at the credit limit increases that followed. I appreciate that NewDay  gave 
Miss G the option to decline the increases. But I think its easy to see how someone in a 
difficult financial situation might be unable to make the right decisions. Its the lenders 
responsibility to check  their customers ability to repay and their overall creditworthiness  
before offering an increase.  And an increase shouldnt be offered if a customer is showing 
signs of financial difficulties.
NewDay say they checked Miss Gs credit file when they gave her the card. They  also 
considered extracts  from a credit reference agency  and reviewed Miss Gs account before 
offering a limit increase.  Im satisfied that NewDay did some checks  before increasing 
Miss Gs credit  limit. However,  based on the information they likely would have had, I cant 
see that the increases were responsible. The UK Cards Association best practice guidelines 
about credit  limit increases sets out risk indicators which might show  lenders that their 
customer has financial difficulties. And I think NewDay should have spotted a couple  of 
these risk indicators  in Miss Gs case.
She used  her limit to the maximum but only made  minimal repayments. And in the first five 
months of having the card she also used eight  cash advances (£570 in total).  Although I 
think giving  Miss G a card with a low limit wasnt unreasonable I still would have  expected 
NewDay to take into account the information  they collected about  her during her application 
and from their reviews before offering an increase.  NewDay confirmed they knew in 2012  
Miss G had around £50,000  in unsecured debt and that around £7,000 of this consisted of 
outstanding balances across eight credit  cards. And they knew  her salary was £33,000.  So 
they would  have known her debt to income  ratio was fairly  high as well.
Ive seen a recent copy of Miss Gs credit file and it shows that in 2012/2013 she was using 
all her credit  cards  to the maximum. And from other  complaints Miss G brought  to this 
service I also know that she was heavily using payday loans in 2012  and 2013.  I dont know  
whether NewDay would have seen that some of the unsecured debt stemmed from payday  
loans. But I think the high outstanding balances on a large amount of credit cards  (in addition 
to over £40,000 in unsecured loans) and the use of cash advances  should have been 
warning signs that Miss G was struggling.  
NewDay increased Miss Gs limit from £500  to £750  just after five months  in February  2013.  
Although I think risk indicators like using cash advances were already evident  at that point, 
the increase was fairly modest and so it can be argued that this first increase  was still within  
reasonable limits.
However, I dont think this can be said for the second increase from £750  to £1,250 just 3 
months later in May 2013. The increase this time was higher  and the accumulated 
outstanding credit card balances on Miss Gs other credit  card had risen to over £10,000 by 
that point. I think the cash advances on her Aqua card and using her new limit of £750 three 
months earlier as soon as she was granted the increase should have been enough for 
NewDay to realise Miss G was using  this card in similar ways to her other  cards. Miss G has 
told us that it was around this time her financial troubles got worse and Ive seen  that 
between February and May 2013  she took out two pay day loans worth £2,500 with one 
lender alone.
So based  on everything Ive seen I think the second  increase  to £1,250  wasnt  responsible 
anymore. Before another increase I would  have expected NewDay to ask Miss G further 
questions about  her situation  and/or do an income-expenditure assessment. Miss G told us 
that in 2013 she had a net income  of £1,800 per month (she provided a payslip)  and that 
Ref: DRN58600933debt repayments  alone per month  were £1,300 (which seems plausible from the amount of 
debt Ive seen). She had a dependent child and says her outgoings  for food, clothes, rent, 
household bills and transport were around  £900. I dont have any reason to disbelieve these 
numbers. So if NewDay had asked further  questions, I think they would have found that 
giving Miss G further lending wasnt appropriate in her situation.
For these reasons I think NewDay shouldnt have offered  Miss G an increase to £1,250 in 
May 2013 or any subsequent increases.
putting things right
To put things right NewDay should:
Refund all over limit charges applied after May 2013
Refund all interest  applied on balances over £750 from May 2013
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Gs credit file relating to this account  from 
May 2013 onwards. 
Review possibilities of an affordable repayment  plan on the new outstanding balance
All refunds  can be used to reduce Miss Gs outstanding balance. I think  its unlikely 
that after the refunds are applied Miss G will have a positive credit card balance.  But 
in the event she does, NewDay should pay the positive balance  to her and apply 8% 
simple interest from the day the account  would  have gone positive until the day of 
settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained Im upholding Miss Gs complaint in part. I request NewDay Ltd 
to pay the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5860093