K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that BNP Paribas Cardif Limited  trading as Warranty Direct  (BNP) mis-sold 
her a mechanical breakdown insurance (MBI) policy. 
background
Mrs D was sold a MBI policy in 2007 for her car which was around five years  old at the time. 
The policy was paid for monthly and would continue to run until its cancelled. Each year the 
policy has a review point  and any changes to the terms  and conditions  could be amended at 
that time.  In 2015 the level of cover was reduced because of the age of Mrs Ds car and new 
documents were  sent to her. 
In 2018 Mrs Ds car broke down and needed  repairing.  Mrs D claimed on her policy  but the 
claim was declined by the insurer. Mrs D thinks BNP mis-sold the policy. She says its called 
major care breakdown insurance  but it didnt cover her. So she thinks  the policy isnt fit for 
purpose.  
BNP reviewed Mrs Ds complaint and didnt  think  it had been mis-sold.  They  said the policy 
doesnt cover for every eventuality. They  pointed  out Mrs D had previously had three  
successful claims. Mrs D disagreed, she said she isnt aware of those claims. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mrs Ds complaint and didnt find it was mis-sold. He found there 
werent any records of how the policy was sold. But Mrs D had been sent updated terms and 
conditions since. Because of this he didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
As Mrs D disagreed the complaint  has come to me. 
Mrs Ds complaint about the rejected  claim is being dealt with under a separate  complaint 
against the insurer. In this decision  I will only be looking at Mrs Ds complaint about the sale 
of the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BNP doesnt have any records to show how the policy was sold or what  the policy  covered. 
Mrs D also said she doesnt have any documents from when the policy  was sold and didnt 
receive the updated terms and conditions. She also hasnt  provided any specific details 
about the sale to show  why she thinks it was mis-sold.
Its unclear if it was an advised or non-advised sale but with either BNP would have had a 
duty to provide Mrs D with information  that was clear fair and not misleading. If it was an 
advised sale it would also have had to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for her.
As I dont have any details about  the original  sale its difficult  to know exactly  what  happened 
at the time. The policy was originally sold to Mrs D in 2007,  over 11 years before she  
complained about the sale. And I havent seen anything other than Mrs Ds comments  to 
lead me to conclude  that the policy was unsuitable for her. 
Ref: DRN57813432I have though seen the documents  sent in 2015 when Mrs Ds policy changed. The 
documents explain what is and isnt covered in Mrs Ds policy. Ive reviewed the documents 
and they appear  to cover some major components. I can also see the policy  covers  one of 
the parts Mrs D has recently put a claim in for. From looking at the documents  Im satisfied 
Mrs D should have  been aware of what the policy covered and I still havent seen anything to 
persuade me the new policy was unsuitable  for her. 
Mrs D said she didnt receive  the documents in 2015. But the documents  are dated and have 
Mrs Ds current  address  on them.  Ive also seen another  version  sent in 2017  along with an 
accompanying letter which explained a premium increase for the policy.  As these all have 
Mrs Ds correct address Im satisfied its likely they were sent to Mrs D. 
It seems  Mrs D feels her policy is unsuitable because  her claim hasnt been paid. But this in 
itself doesnt mean  the policy is unsuitable.  I havent  seen enough  to persuade  me BNP 
didnt provide Mrs D with information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading  or that the policy 
was unsuitable  for her. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5781343