K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt offer him enough  for his written-off 
car when  he made a claim  on his motor insurance policy.
background
UKI offered Mr C £4,380 for his car on 8 August 2018. Mr C thought it was worth £5,500. On 
23 August 2018  he wrote  to UKI and provided  five adverts for similar  cars in support of his 
argument. UKI had already issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint at this point, and he 
didnt get a response to his letter. 
In the letter,  Mr C had challenged UKIs  use of a national motor trade guide in reaching its 
valuation. He said hed asked UKI to find him a car similar to his at the price it had quoted.  
He said he hadnt  had a promised call from an engineer and wanted a copy  of the guides 
valuation. He also asked  for the engineers report and an explanation of UKIs assessment.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She said it was standard  industry 
practice for insurers to use trade guide  valuations. UKI only used one guide, so the 
investigator checked hat the figure it got from that guide was correct. She also checked  two 
other trade guides.  One gave a slightly higher  valuation than the guide  UKI had used. The 
other gave  one that was slightly lower. The investigator pointed  out that advertised prices  
are subject to negotiation.  She thought UKI could have replied to Mr Cs letter,  but in her 
opinion UKI had handled the claim reasonably overall.
Mr C said he still wanted a copy of the guide UKI had used. He said the Association of 
British Insurers and the policy required UKI to offer him a sum that reflected true market  
value. That meant  a sum to replace his car with one similar in all respects to his old car. He 
said the policy didnt  say UKI could decide  or interpret what a cars  market value is. As it was 
a non-fault claim, Mr C said UKI should  have recovered his losses (including the shortfall  in 
the valuation) from the other drivers insurer. And he asked us to provide evidence that the 
trade guide valuations were  correct. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Valuing cars isnt an exact science, but we have a settled approach towards  it. We think  the 
fairest way to establish a cars likely  market  value is to check  the valuations  set out in the 
national trade guides.  We accept  that the guides  valuations are based on extensive  
nationwide research  of likely selling prices.
We checked that the valuation in the guide  UKI used was based on the right details, 
including the date of loss and the right mileage for the car. The other two guides  we used 
show valuations of £4,594 and £4,288. These arent  out of line with the valuation UKI got. I 
think the average of all three valuations (£4,420)  is in line with the offer UKI made to Mr C.
Insurers normally follow our approach to valuations, as UKI did here. So I think  it acted 
reasonably. Insurers arent  obliged  to find replacement  cars for consumers to show  the 
Ref: DRN57869642valuations they have used are correct,  as Mr C has suggested. I dont think  thats 
unreasonable. But I appreciate that Mr C wont agree. 
Mr C says the policy doesnt say UKI can decide or interpret what  the market  value  is. But 
UKI has to determine by some means  what a fair market value is likely to be. I think it took 
the right approach to that by relying on a trade  guide  valuation. If we think an insurer  hasnt 
used the guides correctly,  we intervene. But that doesnt apply here.  I dont think  it makes 
any difference if UKI is able to claim back its outlay from the other insurer. It still has to act 
reasonably in paying the market value. The other insurer will expect that to happen. And I 
think it would  be fair to query any departure from the usual process.   
The investigator pointed  out that advertised prices  are subject  to negotiation. There  are 
usually variations between them as well. The prices quoted in the adverts Mr C provided  for 
cars similar to his vary from £4,490 to £5,997. Its fair to say that the prices shown reduce in 
line with the cars increasing mileages. As Mr Cs car had low mileage, I can see why he 
thinks thats a factor  that should have affected  the sum paid to him. But the guide UKI used 
took it into account. Many other factors can affect  advertised prices too. And theyre still only 
asking prices, so its not possible  to say what the cars sold for. 
Mr C asked for a copy of the valuation in the guide  UKI used. That has now been sent to 
him, with a copy of the engineers report. UKI had already set out a table  in its final response  
letter to Mr C showing how the valuation was worked out. The trade  guides  dont  show  
pages detailing  all the cars on which each  valuation is based, as Mr C seems  to think.  
I think if UKI promised the engineer would call Mr C back, he should have got a call. And I 
think UKI could have replied  even briefly  to Mr Cs letter of 23 August 2018. It seems UKI 
took the view that further contact with Mr C wouldnt help, as it had already made a decision 
and issued its final response letter. In the circumstances, I think these  were  relatively  minor  
service issues.  In my opinion, UKI acted reasonably overall in dealing  with Mr Cs claim, so I 
cant uphold his complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5786964