K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr L says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
M&S had to make Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before  adding 
it to his card. Mr L has told us that he did select the option to take PPI but did this because 
the wording on the application form stated We strongly recommend you take cover by 
ticking the box and signing  below and he thought it was a requirement  of the card.  Ive 
considered what  Mr L has said and looked  at the application form. The section of the 
application form Mr L has brought to our attention is titled  Payment  Protection  and the first 
line in this section  gave Mr L a choice by stating you can protect  your credit card 
payments Mr L has also ticked and signed separately to take the PPI. In addition to this 
Mr L applied for his policy by post with no interaction  with an M&S representative. So overall 
I think M&S  made  it clear  that Mr L didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it 
out.
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his 
repayments which included sick pay and savings. He also had private health insurance. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer than Mr L would have  received  sick 
pay. It would  also have allowed Mr L to keep his savings  in place to be used towards  any 
other essential expenses he may have had. In addition  to this the PPI would have covered 
circumstances that his private  medical  insurance  wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But M&S has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  M&S  didnt  tell Mr L, that was 
unfair. 
Ref: DRN53257222To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Mr L any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5325722