K820x#14complaint
Mrs K, represented by her daughter, complained that when she made  a cash  withdrawal at a 
counter in a Coventry Building Society  branch, she was only given £900 instead of the 
£1,000 which was debited.
She would like £100, plus compensation.
 
background
Mrs K went  to her local Coventry branch  on 25 October 2018. She went to a counter to 
withdraw £1,000.  Because there was a daily limit of £500 for cash withdrawals without 
notice, this was done  by withdrawing £500 from two accounts. Mrs K intended to pay this 
money in to an account with another financial organisation. 
Mrs K signed for the withdrawals. She asked for the money in £50 notes, and this was 
recorded on the withdrawal slips. Two other Coventry employees,  one of whom was the 
branch manager,  took £1,000 from the safe and counted it, in line with Coventrys rule that 
any withdrawal from the safe must be done by two staff. 
Theres a conflict of evidence about  what happened  next:
-Mrs Ks version is that only one of the £500 withdrawals was counted out to her, but 
the other was just handed to her.
-Coventrys version is that, after the money had been counted by the two employees  
who took it from the safe, the counter cashier counted it again herself. She then 
counted out both £500 cash withdrawals to Mrs K.  
Mrs K then went  to the other financial organisation. But when  she handed over the money, 
there was only £900. She complained to Coventry the same day.
Coventry set up a complaint for Mrs K, and investigated. It found that the safe, and the 
cashiers till, had both balanced  at the end of the day. It also took statements from both the 
branch manager  and the cashier.
In its final response to Mrs K, Coventry explained its checking procedures whenever  a 
customer said there had been a discrepancy.  It balances the cashiers  till to look for any 
errors in withdrawing  or depositing money,  and reviews the documents  to check  that what  
was given to customers matched  up with what was signed for. Then the whole cash holding  
within the branch  is checked. Coventry  confirmed  it had done this when Mrs K complained. 
There had been  no discrepancies, and the correct number of notes and denominations were 
recorded on both forms. So it didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K, represented by her daughter, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  She 
said that only one lot of £500  had been counted out and the rest had just been handed to 
her. She asked  where  the missing £100 had gone.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. He looked at the evidence  and explained 
that reports and ledgers  are checked, kept and signed off by senior members of staff. These 
show monies coming in and going  out of each till and the branch safe. There  are also reports  
showing whether  tills were over or under in cash held at the end of the day. All these showed 
Ref: DRN55091692that the branch balanced for 25 October,  and for the days immediately before and after. This 
also included the safe balances. 
Mrs K didnt accept this and asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whenever theres  a dispute about  what happened, I base  my decision on what  I think is 
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account all the available  evidence.  I wasnt present 
at the time of the transaction, and I accept that its reasonable that after this length of time 
there would no longer  be any CCTV evidence. So I have relied on the documentary 
evidence.
In Mrs Ks case, Coventry  has provided  a considerable  amount of documentary  evidence. 
Ive looked at this carefully. It includes:
-a written statement  from the cashier, saying that when the money was handed  to her 
from the safe, she counted both £500 bundles herself, and counted  them both out 
again to Mrs K;
-a written statement  from the branch manager, saying that she took the £1,000 cash 
from the safe under dual control, counted  it and handed it to the cashier;
-standard daily reports and ledgers which showed that the relevant till, the safe,  and 
the branch as a whole, balanced on 25 October;
-the same  reports for days  around  25 October, also showing that the till, safe and 
branch, balanced;
-a written statement  from the branch manager, saying that no other customers had 
raised any complaints  about cash withdrawals by the cashier who served Mrs K.
Taking all this evidence  into account,  Im not persuaded that Coventry  Building  Society  
handed Mrs K £900 instead of £1,000.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5509169