K822xcomplaint
Mr Vs complaint is that Pilling  & Co Stockbrokers Ltd (Pilling) deprived him of a tender offer 
in a corporate action related to his holding of Permanent Interest Bearing Shares (PIBS).
background 
Mr V has an account with Pilling. In summary:
The PIBS issuer announced  the planned  corporate action  around  the end of 2017, in 
March 2018 the corporate action was launched  and information was sent to the 
registered PIBS holders; 
In Mr Vs case this information  appears  to have been sent to Pilling (through its 
nominee firm) three times but it says it was never received.
The default position, for holders  who did not respond to the offer, was that their PIBS 
holdings would continue.
The corporate action  was completed  in April 2018.
Mr V says he learnt about  missing the tender  offer in the course of his enquiries into 
a separate corporate  action in July 2018. From that point he presented queries, to 
Pilling and to the PIBS issuer, about why he had been deprived information about  the 
tender offer.  He then referred his complaint, about Pilling,  to this service.
Pilling says it cannot reasonably be responsible for not passing on information it did not 
receive, it also says Mr Vs assertion that he was likely to have accepted the tender offer is 
based on hindsight.  Mr V says he would have  accepted the offer  at a favourable  price,  in 
comparison to the lower market price  that has been  in place since July 2018  because  
information that was sent about  the corporate  action suggested that his holding  had no 
future. Pilling says the market price for the holding was higher earlier in 2018 (before the 
corporate action) than the tender offer price, but Mr V did not sell his holding at the higher 
market price so it is unlikely that he would have sold it at the offer price.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He considered it implausible  that the three 
sets of information (about the corporate action) sent to Pilling was not received. He said they 
were probably received  but could have  been  misplaced. In addition, he considered  that 
information about the corporate action ought  reasonably to have been picked up by Pillings  
information agent through the London  Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service  (RNS).  
Overall, he concluded  that Pilling was responsible for the lack of notice, about the corporate 
action, to Mr V and he proposed the payment of £100 in compensation for this.
The investigator was not persuaded by Mr Vs claim for financial loss  based on the loss of 
opportunity to sell the holding  at the offer price.  He broadly agreed with Pillings argument 
that evidence  did not suggest  Mr V was likely to have sold his holding  at that price because 
he could have sold it at an even higher price earlier in the year but chose not to. 
Pilling maintains  that it did not receive  and did not misplace information  about the corporate 
action, but it accepted the investigators outcome.  Mr V maintains that his claim for financial 
loss has merit. He says he has never  asserted that he sought to sell the holding  or that he 
was influenced  by its market price  or value. He referred to history in which the price level 
had fallen then recovered but, nevertheless,  he did not sell the holding because  he invested  
for the long term. In the main,  his argument is that there was information within  the corporate 
action which  would have  led him to conclude  that the holding  had no future and that is what 
would have prompted him to accept the tender  offer in order to sell the holding.
Ref: DRN50070332The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regards to the corporate  action information,  I consider  that the information was sent to 
Pilling through its nominee firm and that it was more likely (than  not) received. I agree with 
the investigators view that the idea of three sets of this information not being received is 
implausible, given  that there is evidence of them being sent to the correct recipient. What  
happened to them upon receipt is not clear, but that should not alter the duty Pilling  owed to 
Mr V. That duty meant Pilling should have  informed him about the corporate action, but it did 
not do that. I also consider that the investigators  point about information  available from the 
RNS is relevant  to this duty.
I am not persuaded that Pillings  liability in this respect is shared with any external party, so it 
is responsible for depriving Mr V of the corporate action information. It has argued that he 
was unduly late in raising his concern about it. However, available  evidence  suggests that he 
was unaware of it until July 2018  as he has described  and that the history of fluctuations  
in the holdings market price could reasonably  have  led him not to suspect anything  when 
the market price reacted around  the corporate  action.  
It appears to be common ground that Mr V was/is  an experienced and financially astute 
investor and Pillings  suggestion is that he would have known about the matter before he 
raised his queries  but chose to do so only when the market price dropped further. I note 
this argument  and I do not suggest that Mr V certainly did not know about the matter until 
July 2018, but the point is that I have not seen  evidence  that he did or that he probably did.
I agree  that Mr V should receive £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him by not 
receiving the corporate action  information from Pilling, as he should have received.
I am not persuaded by Mr Vs case for financial  loss. In this respect, I have  considered his 
main and supporting  arguments. I accept that some of the contents of the corporate  action 
information  especially  about a seemingly  uncertain  outlook  for the payments of interests 
from the PIBS  could have given cause  for an investor to consider the tender offer.  I also 
understand Mr Vs point  that the outlook  could have  been perceived  as being less favourable  
for retail investors than it was for professional  investors, given that the latter were given 
more options than the former.
However, Mr Vs complaint is subjective to his PIBS holding,  to his circumstances and to 
evidence on the balance of probabilities in terms of whether (or not) he would have accepted  
the tender  offer. It might  be possible that he would have done  so, but overall  and on balance 
I do not accept that it is probable he would have done so.
Mr V says his position on the holding was not one that was influenced  by the market  price. 
He also says he held a long term view for the holding and did not have  a pre-existing 
intention to sell it. He referred to a history in which the holdings  value fluctuated  with a 
devaluation in 2017 that was notably more severe  that the fall in value in 2018  yet he 
retained it for the long term and did not sell it. Overall, I am not satisfied  that this body  of 
Ref: DRN50070333evidence is consistent  with the idea that he would have sold the holding in response to the 
2018 tender  offer and on the basis of a perceived  negative outlook at the time. 
The previous  fall(s) in the holdings value was arguably a basis  for a comparable  negative 
outlook, but Mr V did not sell his holding and he appears to have taken a long term approach 
at the time. He could have taken the same approach towards any perceived negative  outlook 
after considering the 2018 corporate  action, whereby  he decided to retain  the holding  
regardless of such an outlook.  I have not seen  evidence  to conclude that he would not have 
done this or was unlikely to have done  this. To put it in another way, if Mr V received the 
information in time I do not consider there  is enough  evidence to say he would probably not 
have retained the holding  and that, instead, he would  probably have sold the holding within 
the corporate action. 
As part of his explanation  about why he says the corporate action information made it clear 
the holding had no future, Mr V said it is obviously difficult trying to think back  on information  
[he] never received  but that his present view on that information is that it would have  led 
him to conclude the holding had no future. I consider that this adds support  to the view that 
the probability of what Mr V would have done  at the time of the corporate action  without  
the benefit of subsequent hindsight  cannot  be established.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Vs complaint but I do not uphold  his claim for 
financial loss. I order Pilling  & Co Stockbrokers  Ltd to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him by being deprived  information about the corporate action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5007033