K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about some garden furniture and a solar  powered water fountain which  he 
bought from Studio Retail Limited (Studio)  in April 2018 using his catalogue shopping  
account.
background
In summary,  Mr F says the garden  furniture  is poor quality. He says it is cracking  and the 
tables are wobbling.  He says the solar powered  water fountain doesnt work either. He wants 
Studio to take it all back and refund  him.
When Mr F initially complained to Studio it replied in August 2018 to say that Mr F had only 
shown a photograph of a crack in one of the chairs  and he needed  to provide more evidence  
to show other items were faulty. It offered him a £20 discount for the faulty chair.
Studio carried on sending Mr F requests for payment and eventually  defaulted  the account 
and assigned the debt to a third party in January 2019.
Mr F is unhappy  with how Studio has handled  things. In summary, he says it refused to 
collect the faulty items when he reported the problems (because  he was unable to dismantle 
them). And it took action  on the debt (adding interest  and charges in the process) when it 
shouldve put the account on hold.
Our investigator looked at the evidence  showing the quality of the tables and chairs. And he 
thought their quality  was not acceptable.  He said Studio should purchase the debt back and 
refund Mr F for the tables  and chairs (including any interest and charges). He said if it wants  
the items  back it should arrange to collect them at no further cost to Mr F. He also said that if 
Mr F is able to provide  information to show the water fountain doesnt work then it should 
refund him for that too. He said it should also correct his credit  file and compensate Mr F 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  he has experienced.
Studio did not agree  with this. In summary  it says:
it offered to collect the goods (as long as they were dismantled)  but Mr F refused as it 
was unable to provide  him with a specific date and time;
Mr F only provided a photo of one cracked chair  when he had bought five sets of 
furniture and did not provide further evidence that the other  sets were faulty;
the goods might be for commercial use due to the amount that were ordered and the 
area where Mr Fs video  evidence  was taken  it says the goods are not intended for 
commercial use; and
Mr F bought goods totalling £555.93  and only made  an £18 payment plus a credit for 
the £20 discount it had given   and as he had not made  payment for other goods 
received it had every right to sell the account on
Because of the matters still in dispute  this case has come to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN58174282I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 7 February 2019.  In it I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Studio supplied the goods to Mr F through  his catalogue shopping account and is 
responsible for their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that goods should 
be of satisfactory quality. In essence this is what a reasonable  person would 
consider to be satisfactory taking into account  all the relevant circumstances, such as 
their price  and description. Aspects  of the quality of the goods include their fitness for 
the purpose for which the goods  are usually supplied, their appearance and finish,  
safety and durability.
did Mr F buy the furniture for business  use?
Studio suggests  the furniture is for commercial use. However, although Mr F bought 
several sets I note that a set only consists of a small table and two chairs.  And the 
place where the videos  are filmed isnt obviously a commercial site  it looks like a 
relatively large domestic garden.  Mr F has denied the goods are for commercial  use 
 and I think that is plausible. So I am continuing  on the basis that Mr F got the goods 
for private  consumer use.
are the goods  of satisfactory quality?
I can see from system  notes and email correspondence that Mr F reported issues  
with the water fountain (not working) and the furniture (cracking chairs  and wobbly 
tables) within a couple  of months of first receiving these from Studio.
On 25 July 2018 I can see Mr F sent an email to Studio (after he said he had already 
spoken to customer  services on the phone) outlining the timeline of his purchases 
and the subsequent problems with them. He also follows this up in mid-August 2018  
explaining more  about the issues with the cracks in the chairs and his concerns 
about elderly relatives potentially falling and hurting themselves. The emails are 
credible and detailed  and add weight to his claim that goods  were either broken at 
point of sale or lacked  reasonable stability/strength so broke  easily.
Mr F has provided  this service photographic and video evidence to show a lot of the 
furniture he bought appears  to be cracking and wobbly.  And he has also provided a 
video to show that the water fountain hooked up to the solar  panel (in the sun) does 
not appear to be working.
The advert for the patio set says it is strong  but light and weather resistant  so I 
wouldnt expect it to be cracking and wobbling so soon after purchase through 
normal use in a domestic garden. 
I note the advert for the water fountain indicates  the fountain is operated  by a solar 
panel attached to it and does not need another power source. In which case Mr Fs 
video appears  to show that it isnt working as it should.
Ref: DRN58174283On balance, the evidence shows that chairs and tables and the water fountain were 
not of satisfactory  quality  at the time of supply.  It doesnt look like Mr F has caused 
the issues, and I note that he reported  matters to Studio relatively soon after 
purchase and supplied some supporting evidence.
the evidence provided
Studio has pointed out that Mr F bought several sets of the patio furniture  and they 
might not all be problematic. It says he only sent one photo to support his claim that 
they were faulty.
I can see in the email Mr F sent to Studio in August 2018 he refers  to two attached 
videos. So it seems  he did send  more evidence around the time.  But in any event, at 
the time Mr F also provided Studio with a detailed account of what was happening 
with more than one chair  and table and he was clearly concerned  about  the long term 
durability and safety of all the furniture. So I think that even if all of the furniture  had 
not failed at that point there  was enough  overall concern for Studio  to offer to collect 
the items  and take a further  look. And I note that it did in fact offer to do that, but it 
appears to have made this conditional  on Mr F dismantling and repacking  the 
furniture. I will deal with this in a moment but the point remains that in my view Mr F 
did provide sufficient evidence to support his case for returning  the furniture.
It doesnt appear Mr F sent the video of the fountain not working  to Studio at the time 
he initially  raised problems with his purchases. But in the July 2018 email  he sent to 
Studio he says he had already discussed  it with an agent the month  before who had 
agreed to take it back for a credit  and promised him a call back  in 10 days  to arrange  
collection (but never did). The call notes  Studio  sent in dont appear  to cover this 
period. But what  Mr F says sounds credible and I note that Studios case  notes 
acknowledge that it agreed to collect  the water fountain  due to a fault on 1 June 
2018. It seems Mr F wouldve had no reason to send more evidence  of the water 
fountain problem. So I dont think it fair if he is penalised for not sending more  about 
this at the time.
did Mr F refuse collection?
It seems  Studio  were  willing to take the goods  back. However, I can see there is a bit 
of a dispute about whether Mr F wanted to have the goods collected  or not. He says 
he didnt refuse to have  them collected  he took issue with Studio telling him he had 
to disassemble the items and return in the original packing. 
I find what Mr F says to be more persuasive  here. The evidence I have seen 
indicates he is keen  to have the items  collected but Studio want  him to dismantle 
them. I note call notes from Studio specifically say no return  can be arranged for 
either the fountain or furniture as customer does not have time to disassemble. But 
it seems Mr F is open with Studio about  not being  able to dismantle and repack the 
goods and it isnt simply because he doesnt  have time. I note in the July 2018 email  
he sent to Studio he says the furniture  has locking plastic nuts on it which are not 
possible to remove without breaking the chairs.  And because a couple of months had 
passed since purchase he didnt have all the packaging.
Ref: DRN58174284I dont find what Mr F said about not being able to comply with Studios requests to 
be unreasonable. And I dont think he refused collection  I think  it was unreasonable 
for Studio to refuse to take the furniture and the fountain back  in these 
circumstances.
a fair remedy
I have considered the remedies in the Consumer Rights Act 2015, and note that 
repair or replacement  would have been the initial options when Mr F first complained  
to Studio about  the goods.  However,  I dont think repair  (if even possible) or 
replacement of the goods would be a proportionate  remedy at this stage. Particularly 
considering how protracted this dispute has become and now Mr F has 
understandably replaced the furniture. I think it is better if Studio now collect the 
goods, buy back and write  off the debt, and refund  anything Mr F has paid to date 
(plus interest).
I note the account  had been sold on due to non-payment. I accept Mr F could have 
continued to pay under protest, however I note he has said that on several occasions 
Studio agreed  to put the account on hold while the items were  in dispute. He 
mentions this in an email  to Studio in August 2018. And I note he has written  on an 
arrears letter  from November 2018 about  a phone call he made  to Studio in response 
to said letter.  The note is very specific about the time and date and what  was said.  
The effect being that the manager  of the collections department appeared to agree 
the account should be on hold with no charges (and previous charges to be 
removed). This seems  to a credible note of what occurred (and the call notes Studio 
sent in dont appear to cover this time). I think it more likely than not Studio told Mr F 
the account was on hold.  So it wasnt fair to send him arrears  letters  and default the 
account.
I think it is arguable that selling the debt while the matter was clearly  in dispute was 
not fair in any event.  Studio indicates it had every  right to do this as there were items 
owed other  than those  in dispute. But I dont see evidence supporting this. Mr F has 
indicated these were  the only purchases he made.  And it appears the sum Studio 
says he owes is for the items in dispute plus interest  and charges. I invite Studio to 
provide further  evidence  on this point if it wishes.
All things  considered I think it would be fair for Studio to arrange  for the removal  of 
any adverse information  added  to Mr Fs credit file in relation to these  purchases.  
And it should also pay him compensation for the trouble and upset this matter  has 
caused him. Had Studio arranged the return of the goods when it shouldve he 
wouldnt have had all this hassle with chasing the matter up, and being chased up by 
debt collectors (particularly  when  it appears  Studio had agreed  to put the account  on 
hold). Mr F has said this has caused  him considerable anguish  and concern about 
his credit file. I can see why. So I think it should pay him £100  compensation too. 
Ref: DRN58174285my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Studio Retail Limited to:
arrange for collection of the garden furniture  and water fountain at no cost to 
Mr F;
buy back the debt from the third party  which  bought  it and write it off  
refunding Mr F anything he has paid toward it to date including 8% simple 
yearly interest calculated from date of payment  to date of settlement;
arrange for the removal  of any adverse information in relation to these 
transactions (for the furniture and fountain) from Mr Fs credit file;
pay Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  this matter 
has caused him; and
if Studio  does not pay the £100 compensation within 28 days  of days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision then it must also pay 
8% simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment 
In response to this Mr F agreed with the decision.
Studio said they were  broadly happy with the findings. However, they were going to find it 
difficult to collect the packages due to limited  space in their courier vehicles. They asked if 
Mr F could  either dispose of the items himself or break them  up into bin bags for collection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  broadly agree with my provisional decision. So I dont see any reason to go over 
the key findings again. I still think my proposal is a fair way of putting  things right for the 
reasons set out above.
However, I will address the issue which Studio has raised regarding collection of the goods. 
In summary,  it thinks it isnt unreasonable for Mr F to break apart  the furniture or dismantle it 
(it has said it has been in contact with its supplier which has suggested the nuts are not in 
fact locking). It also says it offered Mr F collection from the start but he refused this because 
he didnt have time.
I have already responded to Studio to say, in summary:
Mr F can of course dispose  of the items himself if he agrees with this option
but he should also have an option  to have them collected without further  
inconvenience  so he shouldnt be forced to take them apart
even if there are no locking nuts ultimately Mr F doesnt appear  confident  in 
dismantling the furniture himself  and I think dismantling it all will cause notable 
inconvenience regardless. Because he has been  supplied with goods which are not 
of satisfactory quality, in these particular circumstances I dont think it is fair that he 
should be expected to dismantle the sets for collection if he doesnt want  to
it might  be that Studio  have to arrange to collect the goods without dismantling 
(presumably in a bigger  vehicle)   or send along someone who is able to dismantle 
them before loading
Ref: DRN58174286After thinking  about  everything again  I stand  by this. At the outset Mr F was supplied with 
unsatisfactory goods by Studio and should  not be put to further  inconvenience  now.
I have also considered that Studio  offered Mr F collection  from the start. However, (as I 
already established in my provisional  decision)  this was conditional on him dismantling  and 
repacking the goods - something  which he didnt  feel confident  doing.  I dont  think this was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. And even if Studio had informed him the nuts were not 
in fact locking  (which I cant see it did at the time) it is fair to say that taking all that furniture 
apart would have caused Mr F notable inconvenience anyway. Studio should have done 
more at the time. And I think it needs to do that now.
Studio need to work out the logistics here. The important thing is there is minimal 
inconvenience to Mr F. For the reasons I have explained it should cover the cost of collecting 
the goods from Mr F if he is unwilling to dispose  of them himself. And it should arrange to 
collect these whether they are dismantled/broken apart by him or not. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Studio Retail Limited to:
 arrange for collection of the garden furniture  and water fountain at no cost to Mr F if 
he is unwilling to dispose of the items himself  collection should  not be conditional 
on the goods being taken apart (if Mr F is unwilling  to do this) and any arrangements 
should be of minimal inconvenience  to him;
 buy back the debt from the third party  which  bought  it and write it off  refunding Mr F 
anything he has paid toward it to date including  8% simple yearly  interest  calculated  
from date of payment  to date of settlement;
 arrange for the removal  of any adverse information in relation to these transactions 
(for the furniture and fountain) from Mr Fs credit file;
 pay Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  this matter has 
caused him; and
 if Studio does not pay the £100 compensation within 28 days  of days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr F accepts  my final decision then it must also pay 8% simple  yearly 
interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment
If Studio considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5817428