K820x#14complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Allianz Insurance Plc, as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale. To keep  things 
simple, Ill only refer to Allianz  in this decision,  rather than any other business involved.
background
Miss C bought the policy in 1996,  at the same time as taking out a charge card in store. It 
covered her card in case  she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold, for much  the same  reasons as 
our adjudicator.
Miss Cs card application had various  sections, some for optional extras, one of which was 
PPI. The section for PPI briefly explained  what it was for and what  it cost. Then it had a box 
which could be ticked if Miss C wanted  the policy, or which  could be left blank if she didnt 
want it. The box was ticked,  and below Miss Cs name and date of birth was written to 
confirm the cover was for her. 
Miss C says the staff member wrote on the form for her, and that may well be the case. But 
in order to do that they wouldve had to go through the form with her. For instance, the form 
had Miss Cs contact details, financial details, employment details and so on, and the staff 
member wouldnt have  known those things without speaking to Miss C. So I think they went 
through the form with her, including the section  for PPI. And so Miss C wouldve understood 
the choice she was being given. Further, Miss C signed the form to confirm  her choices, and 
ultimately she was responsible for reading  what she was signing. Lastly, Ive not seen any 
evidence that shows the PPI being displayed as anything other than an optional  extra,  nor 
have I seen any wider problems with the sales process from the time. So I think  its most 
likely that Miss C wouldve been aware  she had a choice about  buying PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after 
so many years.
Miss C says Allianz recommended the policy,  which in this sense would mean they gave her 
tailored advice about buying insurance.  That doesnt  seem to fit the evidence and I dont 
think its likely Allianz gave her advice here. But even  if they did, that just means Allianz  had 
to check the policy was right for Miss C  and from what shes  told us of her circumstances, 
I think it was. For example, it looks like Miss C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected  
by any of its key exclusions or limitations.  It wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits  
and savings, and it seems it wouldve offered her more comprehensive cover.  And it meant 
she wouldnt  have to ask her family to pay for her store card if things went wrong.
Ref: DRN59846572Its possible that the information Allianz  gave Miss C about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Miss C was eligible for the policy,  wasnt  
affected by any of the main things it didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case  
something went wrong. The PPI was competitively  priced and had a relatively  high benefit  
compared to similar policies. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Miss C could 
cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty.  So overall, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5984657