K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr M. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  RBS sold Mr M the policy  
at the same  time that he applied  for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr M and his representatives have said,  but Ive decided  the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Mr M says he is 99% sure he was forced  to take out the PPI to get the credit.  But this did 
happen about 19 years  ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the 
details of something like this. I would need more supporting evidence  before I could  fairly  
say RBS did something wrong like this. 
I think its more likely RBS made Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it. And I can see that the credit  card application  form has a section offering PPI, and you 
tick a box if you want to take it. 
Mr Ms representatives say the tick in the box is different from the other  ticks made by Mr M, 
and so appears to have  been made by a staff member. But I think  there is a range of slightly  
differing ticks on the form, and it would be difficult to say that the tick wasnt Mr Ms.
Mr Ms representatives also say that there is no mention of the PPI costing  anything  and so 
appears to be a free benefit.  The form says:
Card Payment Protection Insurance is designed  to protect your Royal Bank  of Scotland 
Card payments in the even of death, accident,  sickness or involuntary unemployment 
(including redundancy). We strongly  recommend  you take out this cover. For cover just 
tick this box after reading the key features. 
I agree  that it makes no mention of cost. But it does say to read the key features first, which 
would have warned the customer that there were features that might not make the PPI 
desirable for them, and was likely  to have set out some information about  costs. And I think  
most people  would assume that an insurance  product would cost something; and that, if it 
didnt, the form would have made a big effort to tell customers it was free. 
The disclosure of cost on the actual form was, however, clearly inadequate.  The limits on the 
benefit were also not mentioned (though may have been in a leaflet). So Ive thought  about 
Ref: DRN56101312whether better information would have made a difference. Assuming that it was Mr M who 
ticked the box, he seems  to have wanted  this cover (and I can see also was prepared to pay 
for the separate  product of card  registration  cover  against theft and loss, and which  the 
form said cost £12 a year). And I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about 
costs and benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. He had limited  work 
sickness benefits and didnt appear to have had a great deal of savings. And it doesnt look 
like hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
Finally, RBS didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mr Ms individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5610131