K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about the compensation offered by Vitality Corporate  Services 
Limited after it mis-sold her a private medical  insurance policy.
background
Ms W suffered from a certain chronic  condition.  She held a private  medical insurance policy 
with a particular  insurer (which Ill call A). The policy  was subject to a six-week  rule under 
which no cover  was provided for hospital  inpatient treatment if the same  treatment was 
available through the NHS  within six weeks. Among  its other  benefits,  the policy offered NHS 
cash benefit of £50, subject to certain conditions, for each  night spent in an NHS hospital.
In July 2015, Vitality  recommended that Ms W to switch to a different insurer (which Ill call 
B). The new policy was subject to a similar six-week rule. It offered NHS cash  benefit  of 
£100 a night which, again, was subject to certain  conditions. Ms W agreed  to the 
recommendation.
During February and March 2018, Ms W was unexpectedly admitted to hospital  on three 
occasions for treatment  related to her chronic condition. The admissions were for nine, two 
and ten nights respectively. She made claims to B for NHS cash benefit.  B declined the 
claims. It said that her treatment wouldnt have been eligible for private cover due to the six-
week rule and so the NHS cash benefit wasnt payable.
Ms W complained to Vitality, saying that A had paid similar claims in the past despite the six-
week rule. She said she wouldnt have switched from A to B if shed known that B treated 
NHS cash benefit claims differently. In August 2018,  shortly after complaining,  she was 
admitted to hospital  for a further 14 nights in relation to her chronic  condition.
Vitality issued its final response letter on Ms Ws complaint. It noted that Ms W was unable  to 
provide evidence to demonstrate that A had paid her NHS cash benefit in similar 
circumstances. It was satisfied it had made clear that the policy  was subject to the six-week  
rule. It said that the application of this rule in relation to NHS cash  benefit was standard  
across the industry.  Nonetheless, it noted that because Ms W already had a policy  with 
these features, its adviser hadnt specifically outlined the operation of the six-week rule in 
relation to the NHS cash benefit. It therefore  offered £500 as a gesture  of goodwill in full and 
final settlement of the complaint.
Ms W didnt  accept the offer. She provided  a letter from A confirming that NHS benefit  would  
have been paid to her regardless of whether the NHS was able to treat her within  six 
months, provided that her medical  condition was eligible under the policy.
In light of the further evidence, Vitality reassessed  Ms Ws complaint and issued a second  
final response letter. It noted that its adviser had made clear to her that NHS cash  benefit 
wasnt available for the first three  nights following  an accident or emergency  admission. It 
therefore felt she hadnt been  misled in any way in relation to her hospital  stay of two nights. 
However, in respect  of the two other  hospital stays in February and March 2018, it agreed to 
pay compensation at the rate of £100 for the 19 nights. In respect of the 14 night stay in 
August 2018,  it noted that Ms W was aware by this stage of the way the policy  worked. For 
this reason, it offered compensation at only the lower rate of £50 a night  for the duration  of 
Ms Ws stay. This meant the total compensation offered was £2,600  (£1,900  + £700). 
Ref: DRN56641642Ms W didnt  accept Vitalitys offer. She referred  her complaint to us. She also drew attention 
to the fact that shed had a seven  night hospital  stay in November 2017, again  related to her 
chronic condition,  which  B had turned  down  for NHS cash benefit for the same reason as it 
declined her other claims. She had previously forgotten  to mention this to Vitality.  She also 
provided evidence  that shed undergone a nine night hospital stay related to her chronic 
condition in January 2019. She thought that, with the exception  of her two night stay, Vitality 
should compensate  her at the full rate of £100 a night for all these stays.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be upheld but 
Vitality should have to pay less compensation than the amount proposed by Ms W. My 
findings were as follows:
Ms W had a number of telephone conversations with Vitality before it sold her the policy  
with B. In the course  of these conversations, Ms W explained that she suffered from her 
chronic condition  for which she required ongoing treatment and medication and for which 
she would  only ever use the NHS. She also explained that her policy  with A had the six-
week rule and also paid NHS cash benefit at the rate of £50 a night up to £2,000 a year. She 
emphasised that the latter  benefit had been useful to her because of her condition. Vitalitys 
adviser assured  her this benefit was contained in her policy  with B but at the higher rate of 
£100 a night up to £3,000 a year. It was on this basis  that Ms W agreed to take out the 
policy.
The adviser did not spell out that to qualify for NHS cash  benefit, Ms Ws treatment had to be 
eligible for private cover and therefore  she couldnt claim the benefit if the treatment was 
available through the NHS  within six weeks. This meant that any unplanned hospital  
admissions would automatically be ineligible for NHS cash  benefit because  clearly the 
treatment in question  was immediately available through the NHS.
I understand why the adviser didnt  mention  this. Ms W had already  indicated she had the 
six-week rule and NHS cash  benefit  on her policy with A and so the adviser assumed she 
would be familiar with the way the two items  interacted. Furthermore,  having  seen both As 
and Bs policy, Im satisfied they contain  broadly similar wording to one another. As policy  
states that NHS cash benefit is payable only if the treatment received would have been 
eligible for private benefit under the policy. I would normally have interpreted that to mean it 
wouldnt be payable if the treatment had been  available on the NHS  within  six weeks.
Nonetheless, Ms W has said that A was willing to pay her NHS cash benefit claims without 
reference to the six-week  rule and she has provided evidence  in support of this. I dont know  
why A should agree  to pay benefit in this way, and I note that Vitality has provided  evidence 
that there  is some confusion within A over this point, but I cant deny the evidence  provided 
by Ms W. I cant be sure that A wouldnt change its approach at some  point but, on the face 
of it, the six-week rule in relation  to NHS  cash benefit is interpreted differently by A and B. 
Ms W would have been left in no doubt as to how B would deal with her NHS cash  benefit 
claims if Vitalitys  adviser had taken the trouble to explain this fully. Instead, he gave a partial  
explanation and, indeed, referred to the fact that no benefit was payable  for the first three  
nights following an accident  and emergency admission even though,  to someone like Ms W 
who had opted  to have the six-week rule in her policy,  this was largely irrelevant (though  
Ms W told the adviser that the three night wait was the same as her policy  with A). Given the 
evidence which Ms W has since provided,  I think she was led to understand that she would 
be able to claim NHS cash benefit  for any hospital  admissions  related to her chronic 
Ref: DRN56641643condition regardless of the six-week rule, in the same way as she was apparently able to do 
so through her policy with A. This means the policy was effectively mis-sold.
The approach of this service  in such situations  is, as closely  as possible, to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been  in had the mistake not been made. 
Ms W says that if shed been  given accurate information, she would have remained under 
cover with A. I think  this is probably true. I therefore need to consider to what  extent she has 
been disadvantaged through switching to B.
It is difficult to know  exactly how much  NHS  cash benefit Ms W would have received had she 
stayed with A. This is because, as noted above, although A had paid previous claims it 
wasnt in my view contractually bound to pay future claims if the treatment Ms W received 
had been available through the NHS within six weeks. So it could  arguably  have changed  its 
approach at any time and declined Ms Ws claims on the same grounds as put forward  by B.
Furthermore, both As and Bs policy have an exclusion for chronic conditions. A hadnt  
previously applied that exclusion to Ms Ws NHS cash benefit claims, presumably because it 
regarded her treatment as being  for an acute flare up of her condition  and designed  to 
quickly return the chronic condition to its controlled  state (the policy  contained an exception 
to the exclusion  for this type of treatment).  However,  there is no guarantee that A would 
have continued  to allow cover in this way, particularly bearing in mind the number and 
duration of treatments which Ms W required.
I must also bear in mind that it paid benefit at the rate of only £50 a night. Ms W also told the 
adviser that A didnt pay NHS cash benefit for the first three  nights of an unplanned hospital  
stay but I cant see any reference to this in As policy.
From November 2017 until January 2019, Ms W had a total of 51 nights in hospital.  Even  if I 
were to assume that A had been  willing to continue to pay NHS cash  benefit  without 
reference to the six-week  rule, without declining her claims  on the grounds of chronicity and 
without imposing a three-night deferment, Ms W could only have received total benefit  of 
£2,550. This is less than the £2,600 which Vitality has already offered. Furthermore, her 
premiums reduced when she switched to B. And, unlike if she had made the claims through  
A, the money she has received  from Vitality has had no effect on her no-claims  discount 
which has saved her additional expense. There can be no doubt that Vitalitys offer would 
therefore make Ms W currently better off than she would have been had she stayed with A.
This doesnt address the issue of future  loss. Ms W might argue that B will continue to 
decline claims which A would have paid. And while Ms W can switch back to A, my 
understanding is that she will not be able to obtain  cover for her condition  until she has been 
through a certain period without any hospital  treatment.
It is difficult to know  how to estimate future loss, if indeed there is any. In calculating  the 
amount which  Ms W could potentially have  received  to date from A, I made  a number of 
assumptions in her favour about As actions. If A were to invoke a three night delay in 
accepting her claims, as she told Vitalitys  adviser  it did, it would reduce her potential  benefit 
to date by £850.  If A were  to change its approach over the interaction of the six-week rule 
and the NHS  cash benefit, or were  to reassess her claims under  the chronic conditions rule, 
it would  mean her claims would be declined.  Although I cannot  be sure what A would have 
done, even if it had been prepared to pay full NHS cash  benefit to date, I think  it very unlikely 
that it would  have continued  to pay this benefit for much longer without applying  the chronic 
conditions exclusion.
Ref: DRN56641644In view of the above, and bearing in mind  that it was Vitalitys error which has given rise to 
the present uncertainty, I think the fairest outcome would be if it paid a further £500 
compensation on top of the £2,600 it has already offered. This would effectively compensate  
Ms W for a further ten nights of NHS  cash benefit,  meaning that she will have been 
compensated for 61 nights in total.  For the reasons given above,  I think it highly unlikely that 
Ms W would ever have received more benefit  than this had she remained with A. Im 
therefore satisfied  that this adequately  compensates Ms W for both past and future loss.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Ms W clarified that, under  her policy with A, she wouldnt be paid benefit  for a hospital stay 
of less than three nights  but if the hospital stay extended beyond this time she would  be paid 
benefit for the entire stay including  the first three  nights. She emphasised how the decline of 
her claim, and Vitalitys  subsequent request for evidence  of As handling of her previous 
claims, had caused  her stress and anxiety. She said that the non-payment of her claims had 
left her in financial difficulty and asked that I consider adding  interest  to the compensation 
payment. She also felt that £500  was inadequate  to compensate her for future  losses,  
though she acknowledged that these were difficult to estimate.
Vitality didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful  to Ms W for her clarification of how A applied  the three day deferred  period to her 
claims, though  I can still find no reference  to this in the policy document. This would mean  
that Ms Ws two night hospital  stay in 2018  wouldnt have  qualified for benefit, so her 
potential total eligible  claims to A until now is reduced to 49 nights, equating to £2,450.
I could arguably reduce  the total compensation by £100 to reflect  this. But in view of the 
overall uncertainty about what A would have paid, both until now and in the future, and 
bearing in mind Ms Ws comments about the trouble and upset shed been caused, I think it 
is fair to keep the overall compensation at £3,100  (in other words, £500 on top of the £2,600  
which Vitality had previously offered). This reflects the equivalent of 62 nights benefit under 
As policy (not 61 as I incorrectly  said I my provisional decision) which allows  for 13 nights 
future loss of benefit on top of the 49 nights benefit  which Ms W may potentially have been 
eligible to receive  until now. For the reasons given in my provisional decision,  I think it 
unlikely that Ms W would ever have  received  more  benefit than this had she stayed  with A.
Ms W asks about interest on this award  and I think, in retrospect, that this is fair. Ms W 
would have received her benefit from A at the rate of £50 a night following each eligible stay 
in hospital and Vitality  should apply interest  accordingly on the £2,450 which  compensates  
her for these stays.  If she hasnt done  so already,  Ms W may need  to provide Vitality with her 
relevant hospital  discharge forms so that it can calculate this interest.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Vitality Corporate Services Limited to increase  its compensation offer to Ms W by a further 
Ref: DRN56641645£500 to bring  its total compensation payment to £3,100. £2,450 of this is to compensate  
Ms W for the £50 a night benefit  she may have received  until now from A for eligible hospital 
stays. Vitality should add interest to these compensatory payments at the annual  simple rate 
of 8%, calculated from the date Ms W was each time discharged  from hospital  to the date of 
settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Vitality considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a certificate showing  this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5664164