K821x#15complaint
Mr B says FCL Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about 9 payday loans Sunny provided to Mr B between September 2015  
and June 2016. Mr Bs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Amount Repayment
1 07/09/2015 28/01/2016 £250 £77.91
2 14/11/2015 07/03/2016 £50 £92.50
3 08/12/2015 08/03/2016 £50 £107.84
4 29/01/2016 10/05/2016 £150 £79.08
5 07/03/2016 28/06/2016 £50 £79.99
6 08/03/2016 28/06/2016 £50 £80.06
7 10/05/2016 28/06/2016 £150 £126.06
8 28/06/2016 Outstanding £100 £33.31
9 30/06/2016 Outstanding £150 £82.64
Sunny made an offer on loan 9 and agreed  to refund the interest and charges  applied to this 
loan and apply  8% interest  to the refund. It also offered  to remove  loan 9 from Mr Bs credit  
file. Our adjudicator  didnt consider loan 9 as this offer is in line with our services  approach.  
Loans 1-8 were considered by the adjudicator  and he didnt think loans 5 to 8 shouldnt have 
been given to Mr B. This was because by loan 5 the adjudicator thought proportionate 
checks wouldve show Mr B was having  problems managing his money. And for loans 6-8 
Mr Bs pattern of borrowing suggested he had become reliant  on short  term lending.  
Sunny disagreed, saying it carried out checks which included gathering details of Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. And based  on this, the loans were affordable.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have
Ref: DRN50461402done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to more when it approved  loans 1 to 4. Mr B
didnt disagree  with this so I won be making further  findings on these loans, but I have
considered them when looking at Mr Bs borrowing history and his financial situation overall.
The adjudicator explained that had Sunny carried out proportionate checks  for loan 5 it
would have shown  Mr B was not able to sustainably repay further borrowing. I agree with
this and Ill explain why.
Sunny says it carried out checks when Mr B applied for loan 5 and these checks  didnt
reveal anything  of concern. It says based on Mr Bs income and expenditure, he had
sufficient disposable  income to afford the repayment. Sunny  also says that existing credit 
commitments wouldve been  considered  along  Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
However, I think if Sunny had reacted effectively to the information it had gathered it 
wouldve seen that Mr B was having issues managing his finances. Mr Bs credit history 
reveals his use of short-term lending in the months  leading up to this point. In particular he 
had two pay day loans  still running  when he was given loan 5. And Mr B also had 
outstanding loans with Sunny. So I think this information shouldve  prompted Sunny to obtain  
a better  understanding of his finances  before lending to Mr B again.
Ref: DRN50461403Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan
6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr B was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr B had taken out 6 loans within around 6 months. So Sunny ought  to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Bs first loan was for £250  and although loan 6 was for £50, loans 7 and 8 saw an 
increase in Mr Bs borrowing.  At this point Sunny  ought to have known that Mr B was 
not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his income but to meet an 
ongoing need. Mr B also had issues repaying loans 8 and 9 which  further 
demonstrates he was having problems  with his money. 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely  to
have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 to 8 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr B loans 5 to 8.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then Sunny should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr B as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr B 
having made overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
Ref: DRN50461404simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Sunny should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Mr B. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr B.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  you have recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file in relation  to loan 5. The overall  pattern  of Mr Bs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove  
these loans entirely from Mr Bs credit  file. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it 
should ask the debt purchaser to do the same. Sunny does not have to remove any 
outstanding loans from Mr Bs credit  file until these have been repaid, but Sunny 
should still remove any adverse information  recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax Sunny has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5046140