K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about a serious breach of her personal data by Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax).
background
Mrs G opened an account with Halifax a few years  ago during a period  of separation from 
her husband. She wanted the account to remain private. And she asked Halifax not to send 
any letters  or statements  to her home address.  In April 2019  Mrs G went  online to add a new 
recipient. She followed the instructions. But she didnt  get the message confirming the 
security details. So she contacted Halifax to find out whatd happened.  
Mrs G discovered  her telephone number  had recently changed on Halifaxs  systems. Her 
husband had taken out home insurance in joint names for their property. And her details had 
been linked  to his phone  number. Mrs G said she spent over an hour on the telephone trying 
to resolve the matter.  And she missed  an important meeting. 
The error caused Mrs G a great deal of upset. Any transactions she carried out were being 
sent to her husband.  And this caused  further  stress between them.  Mrs G is unhappy with 
the offer of compensation. She says its not enough for the upset Halifax has caused.
Halifax said itd investigated Mrs Gs complaint. Due to a system error  her account had been 
added to her husbands  telephone number. Halifax confirmed the mistake had been  
corrected. And he would no longer receive  texts  or calls about her account. The bank said 
there shouldnt be any further problems adding  a new payee. But it apologised for any 
distress caused. And it credited Mrs G with £300  compensation and a further £14 to cover 
the costs of her call.
Mrs G wasnt  satisfied with Halifaxs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Halifaxs records didnt show  any calls or texts  were sent 
to the wrong number.  But he was happy  to take Mrs Gs complaint at face value. And the 
bank had accepted itd linked Mrs Gs account  to her husbands phone. He could see how 
much distress had been caused to Mrs G. But he felt Halifaxs  offer of £300 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs G didnt agree. Halifax hadnt  been  able to correct the mistake immediately. Shed still 
been unable  to transfer money after complaining to the bank. And despite  what  Halifaxs  
records said her husband  had been  texted  and called twice. So shes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G set up a sole account during a difficult marital  period. She wanted the account to 
remain private. And she gave specific instructions to Halifax  about how she was to be 
contacted. But a recent system error meant  her husband became aware of the account.  And 
it led to problems between them. Mrs G says the ongoing distress  has also caused her to 
become unwell and shes struggled  to sleep.
Ref: DRN57820722Halifax has accepted  there was an error. It seems when  Mrs Gs husband took out a joint 
insurance policy the banks system merged the profile and added Mrs G onto her husbands 
mobile number. Halifax  says it logged the mistake immediately after speaking  to Mrs G. But 
she was worried any new transactions would also be referred to her husbands phone. And 
he was now aware  of an account  which  was supposed to remain  private.
Although Halifaxs  records dont show any calls or messages to her husbands  number Ive 
no reason to doubt Mrs Gs version  of events. Halifax has acknowledged her account  was 
mistakenly linked  to Mr Gs details when the insurance product was set up. And its normal 
for a security  message to be sent when a new payee is being created. So I think its likely 
Mrs Gs husband became aware of the account  because of something  Halifax  did wrong.  
Mrs G says the discovery of the account has created  tension  between her and her partner.  
And it also ruined  a surprise gift Mrs G was trying to arrange  for him.
I dont underestimate  the distress  this has caused Mrs G. So Ive looked  carefully  at 
everything shes said. Although Ive not seen any evidence of financial loss its clear Mrs G 
has been caused a great  deal of upset.  She says her health has worsened.  And she had to 
miss an important meeting to stay on the telephone as Halifax  couldnt  arrange a call-back.
But the role of this service  isnt to punish  businesses when they make a mistake.  We award 
what we feel is fair and reasonable. The bank has recognised the upset caused by the 
mistake. And its offered  to pay £300  compensation with a further £14 for the cost of the long 
call. In the circumstances I feel thats  a fair and reasonable response. Its in line with the sort 
of award our service  would normally make. 
I can see our investigator has provided  details  for the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). And they may be able to offer more advice about the data breach. I know  Mrs G will 
be disappointed  with this outcome. But based  on everything Ive seen  I think Halifax has 
dealt with the complaint fairly.  And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5782072