K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander), trading then as 
Alliance & Leicester, mis-sold  them a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in February. A copy  is attached and forms 
part of this decision. I said, in summary,  that if the cost and benefits  of the policy  had been 
properly explained  to Mr and Mrs M they probably wouldnt have thought it good value. 
Thats because the had generous work  benefits  and savings that could tide them  over for at 
least as long as the policy would have  paid out for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs M nor Santander has responded,  so I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Santander UK Plc to:
Cancel the policy,  if it hasnt been  cancelled  already,  and:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.  
Santander had offered  to repay Mr and Mrs M some of the commission  it received for selling 
the policy. If it has done that then it can deduct this amount from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50898982Copy of provisional decision February  2020
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander UK Plc (Santander),  trading then as Alliance & Leicester, 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a mortgage PPI policy taken  out in Mr and Mrs Ms joint names in 2008.  The 
policy was taken out during a meeting when Mr and Mrs M were applying for extra borrowing  on their 
mortgage. The policy provided both Mr and Mrs M with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The initial monthly cost of the policy  was £25.74  and the monthly  benefit was £428.13 
 split between them on a 60/40 basis. This would have been paid for up to 12 months for each claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. I have also taken account of the law and good  
industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
Where the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened given the evidence 
available and the wider circumstances.
The main questions  I need to consider are:
-If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
-Did Santander give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide  whether  to take 
out the policy?
If there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold then I need to consider whether  Mr and Mrs M 
are worse off as a result.  That is, would  they have done something  different  such as not taking out 
the policy   if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I am intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mr and Mrs M say that although they agreed to buy the PPI, if Santander had explained the cost and 
benefits of the policy properly they wouldnt have bought  it. 
Santander says that this was an advised sale. This means that, in recommending the policy, it needed 
to ensure that it suited Mr and Mrs Ms needs. I do not think it was suitable based on their 
circumstances at the time of the sale. I say this because Mr and Mrs M both had jobs with generous  
sickness benefits, which  would have  provided them with full pay for the first six months they were off 
work and then a lesser amount if they were  off for more than six months.  They  both worked  for 
businesses that commonly provide this level of benefit.  Theyve recently  said their combined take 
home pay was £1,500  a month at the time. Mr and Mrs M say they also had £4,000 in savings  
between them, and where those savings  were held. I see no reason  to doubt this. 
Ref: DRN50898983Santander hasnt provided any information  like a completed mortgage application  from the time - 
that contradicts what Mr and Mrs M have told us.
Santander should have  found all this out and then taken this information into account when 
recommending the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. Ive seen nothing to show that it did. I think  if it had done this 
and clearly explained  the potential  benefits,  Mr and Mrs M probably wouldnt have thought the policy 
was good value. Thats because  their work benefits and savings could probably  have supported  their 
mortgage and other outgoings for as long as the PPI would have  paid out  even if both Mr and Mrs M 
were unfortunate  enough to be unable to work at the same time.  If only one of them was ill, then their 
benefits and savings would  have  lasted  even longer.
In summary, I do not currently  consider the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M and Im intending to 
ask Santander to put things  right by putting Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
Santander had offered  to repay  Mr and Mrs M some of the commission it received for selling 
the policy. If it has done  that then it can deduct this amount from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and order Santander to pay compensation as described above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5089898