K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about  the level of service  received from Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited when making a claim under their home insurance policy.  
background
In February 2018,  Mr N contacted Lloyds to report that damage was being caused by a 
leaking boiler at their property. He reported the damage was located  both internally on the 
stairwell ceiling, and the external carport.  
Mr N said they had experienced a similar issue roughly 24 months prior which  resulted in 
contacting their home emergency provider, and making a home insurance claim with Lloyds. 
Mr N said an engineer  from his home  emergency  provider  attended  their property on 9 
February 2018 to stop the leak. And Lloyds made arrangements for its agent  to attend to 
assess the damage. 
Mr N said Lloyds agent attended his property on 12 February 2018, but he wasnt kept 
updated following  that and had to chase for updates. Lloyds said it apologised for this and 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs N £50 for the inconvenience caused, and refund £7 in phone  call 
costs. 
Lloyds carried out an asbestos test, which proved negative, and assessed  the internal and 
external damage. It agreed  the internal stairwell ceiling damage was related  to the leaking 
boiler, but disagreed the damage caused  to the external  carport  was related. 
Mr and Mr N disagreed  with Lloyds initial findings. They  also complained about the excess  
payment; Mr N said he was initially told the excess payment  was £50 but was later informed 
it was £300. Lloyds disputes this. Mr and Mrs N also maintained  that the excess  shouldnt  be 
applied as the boiler leak relates to a previous  repair carried out inadequately. 
Lloyds received a quotation for the works required  to repair  Mr and Mrs Ns stairwell  ceiling 
damage. It maintained that the external damage to the carport was unrelated  to the boiler 
leak and not covered under the policy. Lloyds requested that Mr and Mrs N pay the £300 
excess payment so the internal repairs could  commence. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy  with the level of service  received from the agent  at Lloyds. So 
Lloyds appointed a different agent,  who attended their property on 27 March  2018. The 
agent agreed the damage to the carport was due to wear and tear, and wasnt related to the 
boiler leak. Lloyds  communicated  this to Mr and Mrs N on 29 March  2018. They remained 
unhappy with this decision so they referred  the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator initially recommended Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. She 
considered it was more  likely than not that water  had leaked from the boiler and damaged  
the carport. She therefore recommended that Lloyds  should accept the damage to the 
carport as part of the claim. Mr and Mrs N agreed with our investigators initial view, but 
Lloyds didnt. 
Lloyds responded to say it didnt feel the damage to the carport  timber structure was 
consistent with the damage inside Mr and Mrs Ns property.  It also argued water  couldnt 
penetrate the outer wall and travel laterally to cause damage to the carport.  
Ref: DRN51546462Lloyds also provided  our investigator with an expert  opinion from a chartered builder and 
engineer. The expert  considered the wet rot to the wall plate was most likely  longstanding, 
and therefore  shouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Our investigator reviewed  the further  information and was persuaded by the opinion  of the 
expert, and her view was Mr and Mrs Ns complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr N responded to 
say they wouldnt  be in a position  to provide an independent engineers report. Mr N also 
provided drawings showing what he considered  illustrated what had occurred to cause  
damage to the carport, but this didnt change our investigators view. 
Mr N requested that our investigator listens to a specific call recording between  him and 
Lloyds, which she did. But she remained of the opinion that Mr and Mrs Ns complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. As Mr and Mrs N remain unhappy, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will disappoint Mr and Mrs N; I dont think this complaint should be upheld and will 
explain why. 
I will explain  that my decision  relates solely to the complaint Mr and Mrs N raised about 
Lloyds, their home insurer. I therefore  wont be considering any points Mr and Mrs N have 
raised about their home emergency  provider   which is a separate  entity to Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited. 
Like most buildings insurance policies, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy  
state:  
General exclusions  
This policy does not cover: 
Any loss or damage  caused by: 
Wear and tear.  
Mr and Mrs N have argued  that the carport was damaged by the water  that leaked  from the 
boiler in their upstairs bathroom, but Im afraid I dont  agree. Im more  persuaded that the 
carport showed signs of wear and tear and wasnt damaged  by a one-off insured event. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds  carried out a fair investigation into the cause of the damage to Mr 
and Mrs Ns carport. Mr N was unhappy with the conduct of the first agent  that carried out 
the visit to his property.  Mr N said the agent  attended but didnt contact him following the visit 
to discuss next steps. Mr N also said the agent hadnt updated the claim file on the systems.  
Lloyds accepted it failed to keep  Mr and Mrs N updated, leaving Mr N to chase  for 
information. It compensated Mr and Mrs N for this and Im satisfied  it acted fairly  in doing so. 
Following a second agent attending to test asbestos  and the damage, Mr N requested 
Lloyds provided  him with a different agent  to assess  the claim at the property. Lloyds 
appointed a third agent to visit Mr and Mrs Ns property  to assess the damage. Lloyds  said 
Ref: DRN51546463the third agent  was a chartered  builder  and engineer. He provided a report on the damage  
which was consistent  to the opinions  provided by the previous attending agents. 
I have included sections  of the report provided by the third agent  that I felt were most 
compelling. The expert opinion stated that the wall-plate has been damaged by wet rot. This 
can only develop where there is persistent dampness. This isnt just a small section of rot 
either; my conclusion is that this has been going on for many years. I note that the junction 
between the car port roof and the wall has no weather proofing. The junction  ought to be 
waterproofed since its one of the most vulnerable points in the roof. It then goes onto state 
that rainwater  can freely seep down the gap between the wall and the roof sheet. 
I note that the boiler is not directly  below the wood  rot. I also note that the rot has affected  
the outer face of the wall plate first. Damage arising from a leaking boiler internally appears 
highly unlikely. For this to happen  there must be a certain chain of rather  unusual event.
The agent  goes  on to conclude that the rot on the front face of the wall-plate is the 
culmination of rainwater seeping down the open joint between  the roof panel and the wall. 
This is not damage  caused by the leaking boiler,  or by any other insured cause.
Given the information detailed within the report from the expert, and while I appreciate  this 
will disappoint Mr and Mrs N, Im not persuaded  that the damage caused to the carport  is 
related to the internal  boiler leak. 
I have listened  to the call that Mr N felt would change our investigators view. Mr N describes 
the problem to the agent and the level of damage  caused to both the internal stairwell above  
the stairs,  and the external carport.  During this call the agent  also informs Mr N an excess  of 
£300 is payable  in order to progress the claim,  which  may be recovered further down the 
line. Based  on this, Im satisfied Lloyds made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs N that an excess  was 
payable, and the amount. 
Mr N does describe the level of damage  being  caused, but Im not persuaded the content of 
the call recording establishes the root cause of the damage to the carport, or the most likely 
cause  as explained Im more persuaded by the opinion of the expert here. I therefore wont 
be asking Lloyds to do anything else here in relation  to the external carport; because  Im in 
agreement its not something thats covered under  Mr and Mrs Ns buildings  insurance 
policy. 
My understanding is the internal repairs have not yet commenced. Mr and Mrs N would need 
to contact Lloyds  to discuss this further. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Martyn Tomkins 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5154646