K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies on three loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W took out a loan with Nationwide in 1995 (loan  1) and further top-up loans in 
1998 (loan 2) and 1999 (loan 3). 
On loan 1, Mr and Mrs W purchased a regular  premium  PPI policy  at the same time. Due to 
the time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs W applied for their loan and PPI 
policy. The amount and term of the loan are also unknown. The PPI policy cost £33.03 a 
month, with the premium  paid directly to the insurer of the policy.  The policy didnt attract  
interest and could be cancelled by either party  with notice  without penalty. The policy  
provided single cover for Mr W for accident,  sickness and unemployment, together with joint 
life cover for Mr and Mrs W  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 
Mr and Mrs Ws monthly loan repayment  for up to the remaining term of the loan in the event  
of a successful disability claim and for up to 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
On loan 2, Mr and Mrs W purchased a single  premium  PPI policy  at the same time. They 
applied for the loan and PPI policy through the post. The policys  one-off upfront premium of 
£1,474.42 was paid in advance by being added to the loan where it attracted interest over 
the term of the loan.  The loan was repayable over a 60-month term and the policy  term 
matched that of the loan.  The monthly loan repayment was £182.01  with the PPI costing an 
additional £33.55 making the total monthly  repayment £215.56.  The policy  provided  cover for 
Mrs W for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  Mr and Mrs Ws monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12-months  in the 
event of unemployment. 
On loan 3, Mr and Mrs W purchased a single  premium  PPI policy  at the same time. They 
applied for the loan and PPI policy over the phone. The policys one-off upfront premium of 
£2057.11 was paid in advance by being added to the loan where it attracted interest over the 
term of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 60-month term and the policy term matched 
that of the loan. The monthly loan repayment was £256.74 with the PPI costing an additional 
£44.01 making  the total monthly repayment £300.75. The policy provided cover for Mrs W 
for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It 
offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Ws monthly  loan repayment for up to the remaining term of the 
loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12-months in the event of 
unemployment.
At the time of these  sales, Mr W was employed  as a chartered  surveyor. He has told us he 
was entitled to at least  12 months sick pay and 6 months redundancy from his employer, 
together with Death-In-Service cover.  Mr W says he had a skin condition at the time of these  
sales, but otherwise  was in good  health.  Mrs W says she was employed as a local 
government officer. She has told us she was also entitled to full sick pay and redundancy 
pay, together with Death-In-Service cover.
The third loan closed  in 2001.  Mr and Mrs W took out two further loans in this chain, but no 
PPI was taken with these.  
Ref: DRN53605742Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs (including  interest  on the latter two loans)  and the fact it was unlikely 
you could make a successful claim meant the policies were  of inherently poor value 
as shown by the low claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost  good faith means 
Nationwide should have told Mr and Mrs W about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The cancellation terms  were  unfair.  The single premium policies sold to 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  provide  for a pro-rata rebate if the loan was paid back  early,  
meaning that, in these  circumstances, Mr and Mrs W would lose out.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint
Ref: DRN53605743These PPI sales took place before  the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this sale, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement on loan 3 concluded in 2001.  That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable to this complaint.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Ref: DRN53605744key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policies were appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policies, including  drawing to their attention and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent 
Mr and Mrs W suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has very little documentation available in relation to the sale in 1995. But thats  
not particularly  surprising given how long ago this was. And it cant  say how the loan and PPI 
were sold to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W dont seem to have a clear recollection of this 
either which, again, isnt surprising.  
In these circumstances I need  to decide what is most likely to have happened on the basis of 
the very limited information available, including what I know more  generally about how 
Nationwide normally sold these polices at around this time. 
Nationwide has provided a sample  copy of a credit agreement in use for this type of loan in 
1995, which clearly  describes  the PPI as optional. And so from what  Ive seen, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W would have known the policy was optional and 
confirmed they wanted to take it by signing a credit  agreement  with this optional  cover 
included on it, without  undue pressure having  been  applied.
In relation to the PPI sales on loan 2 and loan 3, Ive seen copies  of the signed credit 
agreements. Once again,  these clearly show the PPI as an optional  product which  had been  
added to the loan. And I think Mr and Mrs W are likely to have agreed to the PPI, knowing it 
was optional, before the PPI was added. If they hadnt agreed, I think  they would have  
queried why this had been done  without their agreement. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs W knew  all the 
policies were optional  and they agreed  to take them out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN53605745did Nationwide provide advice?
Mr and Mrs W dont  seem to recall  whether  advice  was given during these sales.  Nationwide 
says that advice wouldnt have been provided.  And from what  I know of how Nationwide  sold 
such policies, I think this is most likely to have been the case. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
Mr and Mrs W to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including  
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover and of the costs. In the case of the regular premium 
PPI sold in 1995, that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr W was unable to 
work through  accident, sickness and disability.  And in the case of the latter  two policies,  that 
they would  protect  their payments  if Mrs W was unable to work through accident, sickness 
and disability.
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have taken out 
the policies without any sense of what they were for and Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W 
would have been aware of the cost of the policies  from the information I think  its likely they 
were given by Nationwide at the time.  In the case of the single premium policies, I think  this 
would have included  Mr and Mrs W knowing that the premium  would be added  to the loan 
and the monthly  cost (as this information  was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on their loan 
agreements).
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations,  before 
Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ws. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN53605746-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  their significance to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to 
Mr and Mrs W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs W suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  
whether or not Mr and Mrs W would  have still taken out these policies, had Nationwide  done  
things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  them out and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policies against the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take these policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made these decisions based  on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs W thought they were getting  in each sale is not exactly what they got. The extent 
to which  this differed  is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W has 
suffered any loss or detriment. 
I think the information Mr and Mrs W were  given about the cost of the policies was clear.  But 
I cant be sure that the information about  other aspects of the policies, such  as their benefits, 
limitations and exclusions  was as clear  as it should  have been.
So Im not sure that Nationwide  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs W would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim on one of the policies. But I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Ws expectations about what the policies would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their loan payments) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN53605747The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr and Mrs W knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy,  or for which  
they received  treatment  or advice in the 12 months before the policy  started and 
which recurred within 12 months of its start; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if the 
insured person wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  the insured person 
be unable to do their own job, or any other job they were qualified  for by knowledge 
or training.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policies werent  as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in these sales, might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policies.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them. Mr and Mrs W were eligible for 
the benefits of the policies for which they were insured and they provided  cover that, despite 
their limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to them  should  the insured  risks 
have become a reality.  Although Mr W says he had a medical  condition  when the PPI for 
which he was covered was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put Mr and Mrs W off agreeing to it. I say this because, from what I 
know about Mr Ws medical condition, I dont think its likely that this would have been the 
cause of him taking  any significant amount of time off work.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs W would have been caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions in the policies. Mr and Mrs W were both in permanent  
employment. And the single premium policies did provide  a pro-rata refund if they were  
cancelled early, so these policies provided flexibility if Mr and Mrs W decided  to repay the 
loan early and cancel the policy.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs W would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do both 
their job and any other job they were qualified for by knowledge or training,  it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept it may have given  
them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned 
given that if Mr and Mrs W were  unable (through  disability) to carry on their own occupation 
the chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation  would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policies.  The policies were sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences were  the insured one of them to be made  redundant, or 
Ref: DRN53605748unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr and Mrs W found  themselves in as result of the sales  was the same position  they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they wouldnt 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they hadnt bought  the policies.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policies 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better position than if everything  had happened  as 
it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN53605749my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5360574