K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Cumberland Building Society (Cumberland) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy  was taken out in 
one of the societys branches  when Miss D was applying for a mortgage. The policy  cost 
£7.80 a month and provided Miss D with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It 
could have up to £150 a month for 12 months  if Miss D made a successful claim.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case. 
 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss D suggests she wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI as she was made to feel 
she had to have  it in order to get the mortgage.  I cant be sure what was discussed between  
her and the society, but I see the mortgage application form had a section about PPI, which 
didnt say it was compulsory. Nor did her mortgage offer which was sent a little while  later. 
Miss D also signed a separate PPI application  form which set out more  details  about  the 
policy.
Overall, despite what Miss D remembers, I think the society made her aware that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it out.
The society  has accepted  that it advised Miss D to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Miss D was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Miss D says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to a sickness  or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition  to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy  in place 
would mean Miss D could  use her work-related benefits to pay for other expenses. This 
would probably  have been  all the more important when  the policy was sold given that 
Ref: DRN56576052Miss D was solely responsible for repaying the mortgage. So I think Miss D would have  
had some use for the policy  despite  her existing  arrangements.
-Miss D wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Miss D 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-The PPI application  set out what the policy would cost each month  and the monthly 
benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made. So I think  Miss D would have 
been aware how much she would  be paying for the policy  and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient  to meet  her monthly  
mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the society gave  Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said Miss D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable, I think  it unlikely Miss D would  
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  she 
would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.  
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5657605