K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss son and daughter  have  joint Power of Attorney for her. Mrs Ss daughter complained 
because Bank of Scotland plc sent information  for their mothers  account  to her brothers 
address instead  of to hers.
 
background
Mrs Ss son Mr S, and daughter Ms F, jointly have Power of Attorney for Mrs S. Mrs S has 
an account with Bank  of Scotland,  which her son and daughter  operate  on her behalf.
In January 2019, Bank of Scotland posted  a debit  card and PIN number to Mrs Ss sons 
address. In February  2019, Ms F went to a branch  to set up online banking for Mrs Ss 
account. After the appointment,  Bank of Scotland sent a letter  to Ms Fs brothers address. 
The letter was addressed to Mrs S, and enclosed the online banking  details for Mrs Ss 
account.
Ms F was unhappy about this, and complained to Bank of Scotland that:
-the letters had been addressed to Mrs S, even though Mrs S hadnt been to the 
branch appointment and, sadly, was unable  to deal with her own affairs;
-Ms Fs brother had opened the letter, so he knew the online banking details for the 
account.
-Ms F also complained  because Bank  of Scotland had enclosed a leaflet about the 
online banking agreement, which told customers never  to reveal  security  details to 
anyone, including any joint account  holders. She felt Bank of Scotland had broken its 
own advice.
Bank of Scotlands final response said that it could  only register one correspondence 
address on each account. Mrs Ss account had been set up with Ms Fs brothers address as 
that one correspondence address. This was why everything sent by post would go to his 
address. The bank also said that where there was more than one person with Power of 
Attorney, theyd have  to share one username, memorable information, and password. It said 
that as Mrs S was the account  holder, all information would be addressed to Mrs S, even if 
she didnt have capacity  to run the account herself.
Ms F wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  She said she believed  Bank  of 
Scotlands reply to be a poor excuse for inefficiency and breaching  her security. Ms F said 
Bank of Scotland had sent a leaflet about  keeping things secure, but the bank hadnt 
mentioned this in its final response.  Ms F said shed told Bank of Scotland that a different  
bank had sent separate information to her brother and to her, but Bank of Scotland had been 
dismissive about what  other  banks  do.
The investigator didnt  uphold Ms Fs complaint.  He said he could understand why Ms F felt 
it was insensitive to address letters to Mrs S, when Mrs S didnt have capacity to run the 
account. But he explained that with an account with Power of Attorney, everything would still 
be addressed to the account holder.
The investigator also said that Ms F and her brother were both eligible  to use internet 
banking for Mrs Ss account.  So Bank  of Scotland  hadnt disclosed any information it 
shouldnt have done  because both Ms F and her brother were entitled  to access the 
account through the online banking details. The investigator said that if Ms F and her brother 
Ref: DRN59924992wanted the address changed to Ms Fs, that could be done. But it couldnt change it so 
correspondence was sent to more  than one address.  
Ms F wasnt satisfied. She said she found it appalling that the bank had deliberately posted 
secure mail to the wrong address, and had sent a leaflet about  staying  safe by not sharing 
banking details, which contradicted its actions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms F found it frustrating that, when  she was the person who had gone into 
the branch to arrange the online  banking, Bank  of Scotland had sent the details  to her 
brother and not to her. But the reason  why the correspondence went to Ms Fs brothers 
address was that that was the address which had been set up when the account  had been  
opened. 
I also recognise that its frustrating for Ms F that Bank of Scotlands systems can only set up 
one address for an account. Ms F has said that other banks do have the ability to set up two 
different correspondence addresses. But this service doesnt tell banks what  procedures  
they should have  thats the role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority. If, 
however, Ms F and her brother would  like to make a change it so the one address which 
Bank of Scotland use is Ms Fs address instead of her brothers, they can do so if they get in 
touch with the bank. 
A key point in this complaint is that the account is a sole account which belongs to Mrs S 
and is in her sole name. When  someone  has an account which  is operated for them by 
people with a Power of Attorney, it remains the original persons account. Thats why 
correspondence in these circumstances is always addressed to the original person, not to 
the people with the Power of Attorney. So the account holder is still Mrs S, and the account 
isnt a joint account. Thats why the sections of Bank of Scotlands  literature which  refer to 
security of joint accounts arent relevant  here.  Ms F and her brother are acting instead of, 
and in the interests of, their mother Mrs S. Theyre not joint holders  of the account. 
Thats why there  can only be one username,  memorable information, and password, which 
Ms F and her brother  are entitled  to share.  All that belongs to Mrs S. So the information 
which Bank of Scotland sent to Ms Fs brothers address wasnt  information  which  belonged 
to Ms F. It was information which belonged  to Mrs S, which Ms F and her brother were jointly 
using to run the account on Mrs Ss behalf. Ms Fs brother was equally entitled to see the 
online banking and all other information  about  the account. 
I can see that in Bank of Scotlands complaint notes, it also says that Ms F complained  that 
her brother had no right to know she had online  banking. But this isnt correct, because  it 
wasnt Ms Fs online banking. Technically, it belonged to Mrs S, and both Ms F and her 
brother were entitled to have the information about Mrs Ss account. Ive seen nothing  to 
indicate that Bank of Scotland sent Ms Fs brother anything about any accounts Ms F 
personally might have had, only about Mrs Ss account which they ran together  for her. Bank 
of Scotland did nothing  wrong when it disclosed the information about  Mrs Ss account  to Ms 
Fs brother.
Ref: DRN59924993my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F, as Mrs Ss 
Power of Attorney, to accept or reject my decision before  23 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5992499