K822xcomplaint
Mr E is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc failed to apply a payment hed made to his credit  card 
account within a reasonable time.
background 
In April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its IT systems.
In early May 2018,  Mr E paid £529.35  towards  his TSB credit card. The money was debited  
from his current account with a different bank but failed to be credited to his TSB credit  card 
account. In July 2018, Mr E complained to us. He says that hes spent several hours on the 
telephone trying to resolve the matter  with TSB but hasnt been successful. 
Since our involvement, Mr E has told us that the payment has successfully been  credited to 
his credit card account and hes not incurred any related charges for late payment. However,  
he considers that TSB should pay compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused to 
him in trying  to trace the payment for over two months. 
An investigator here upheld the complaint and recommended that TSB pay £150 as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr E. Mr E didnt accept  this and 
says that the award doesnt adequately reflect the stress  and inconvenience  he suffered. 
Another investigator reviewed the case and agreed  with the award of £150. Because Mr E 
remains unhappy, the case has been  passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigators.  Ill explain  why.
Mr E says that not knowing  where  his money  had gone caused him significant stress   and I 
can understand that. He adds that repeatedly  trying  to resolve the matter with TSB over the 
telephone took up a lot of time. Further, when he did manage to speak to someone at TSB, 
he says he was misdirected and told to take the matter up with the bank from where  the 
money had been  debited. 
So I need to consider whether £150  is adequate  compensation for the trouble and upset  
Mr E has experienced. Im aware that TSB experienced some IT issues at the time.  Taking  
into account the length of time Mr E chased  the payment and the time spent on the 
telephone with TSB, Im satisfied that £150  is a fair and reasonable compensation award.  
Mr E has also told us that he hasnt suffered any consequential financial losses that I need to 
take into account. 
Ref: DRN51600732my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
If it hasnt  already done so, TSB Bank  Plc should pay Mr E £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5160073