K820x#14complaint
Mr Z has complained about the compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has 
offered him in relation  to the mis-sale  of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
sold alongside a mortgage.
background
In 2018 Mr Z complained  to Barclays that he had been mis-sold PPI. 
Barclays responded to Mr Z agreeing that PPI had been mis-sold. But Barclays  explained 
that Mr Z had successfully claimed  under the PPI policy. And the amounts he received 
were far more than what he had paid in premiums for the policy.  So it said Mr Z was not 
due any compensation for being mis-sold PPI.
Unhappy, Mr Z brought his complaint  to this service.  Mr Z thought that any compensation 
for what he had paid in PPI premiums should  be paid to him, as it had been decided that 
PPI had been mis-sold.  And it was unfair  for the claim  amounts to be deducted from the 
compensation. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Barclays had said and thought it was fair for 
Barclays to deduct  the claim amounts from Mr Zs compensation.  So he considered Mr Z 
wasnt owed anything further. 
Mr Z disagreed. As the matter hasnt  been  resolved, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed it mis-sold PPI to Mr Z, so Im not looking  at how the policy was sold. 
Im only looking at whether it is fair for Barclays to deduct the claim amounts from Mr Zs 
offer of compensation.
can Barclays deduct a successful claim from Mr Zs PPI compensation?
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible). 
With a regular premium PPI policy like Mr Zs, this generally means  refunding the PPI 
premium and adding  simple interest  (at 8%) to compensate the consumer for anytime 
theyve been without that money. 
As Ive said above,  and this is important in Mr Zs case, to compensate Mr Z, Id expect 
Barclays to put him in the position hed be in had he not taken out the policy.  
Had Mr Z not taken out PPI, he wouldnt have had to pay for it, but at the same time he 
wouldnt have benefitted from the claim amounts. And he would have  had to make the 
mortgage repayments himself. 
Ref: DRN55689652So I think its fair for Barclays to deduct  the amount of any successful claims on the policy 
from the mis-sale compensation. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr Z to have received the benefit of the claim amounts and then also 
receive back all the money he had paid in premiums.
Because Mr Zs claims  totalled far more  than his PPI compensation I dont think  Barclays 
need to do anything further.
I know my outcome will disappoint Mr Z because he feels that he paid the premiums  and 
because it has been decided that PPI was mis-sold, he should get that money back. But I 
hope I have been able to explain  our approach to compensation for mis-sold PPI. And why I 
think it was fair for Barclays to deduct  the claim amounts from any compensation Mr Z was 
owed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
It was fair for Barclays Bank UK PLC to deduct the claim amounts from Mr Zs 
compensation, so he isnt owed any further  compensation.  And Barclays  Bank  UK PLC 
doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5568965