K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says she and her husband, Mr H, were mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
by Bradford & Bingley  Plc.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1998  and were  sold a PPI 
policy at the same time. 
The policy,  which  was free for the first six months, wouldve given Mr and Mrs H a monthly 
benefit of £500 for up to 12 months if Mr H made a successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim. After the first six months,  the policy cost Mr and Mrs H £32.50 a 
month.
Mrs H says she and her husband understood it was a condition  of the mortgage that they 
take out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at the complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs H disagrees and so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
decision.
Bradford & Bingley  needed to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs H they had a choice about PPI 
and get their agreement  to it. Ive looked  at the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs H 
signed. I can see theres a section  on it about PPI that has been ticked to say Mr and Mrs H 
want Mr H covered for accident,  sickness and unemployment. The form also sets out the 
amount of monthly  benefit Mr and Mrs H had chosen, which  was £500. The PPI section of 
the application form includes options to decline  PPI altogether, or to take accident  and 
sickness cover only. Looking  at this information, I think its likely Bradford  & Bingley 
discussed Mr and Mrs Hs insurance  needs with them and they chose the cover they 
wanted, knowing they couldve declined it. 
While its possible  Bradford & Bingleys representative said something in its meeting with   
Mr and Mrs H to make them think the PPI was a condition of the mortgage, what  Mrs H says 
on its own and without  anything to back it up, isnt enough to make  me think  its likely.  I say 
this especially given  what the paperwork that was signed at the time says.  So I dont uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint on this point.
Ive gone on to see if theres  any other  reason why I should uphold this complaint  but I dont 
think there is. Mrs H says Bradford & Bingley recommended the PPI to her and her husband. 
Bradford & Bingley  says it didnt. Although the mortgage application form Ive already 
mentioned strongly  advised  applicants to take out PPI, I dont think this is the same  as 
Bradford & Bingley  giving Mr and Mrs H a tailored  recommendation to buy the product  based  
Ref: DRN52802282on a detailed assessment of their particular demands and needs. So I dont think Bradford & 
Bingley needed to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H. But it did have a duty to give 
them all the clear  information they needed  to make that decision themselves in an informed 
way.
From the information Ive got, I dont know what steps Bradford & Bingley took to do this, so 
its possible it didnt make some things as clear  to Mr and Mrs H as it shouldve. But this 
doesnt mean I should automatically uphold this complaint. Instead,  I must consider whether 
clearer information  if it had been  needed  wouldve stopped  Mr and Mrs H going  ahead 
with it. From  what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got, I 
dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt  seem he was affected by any of the main 
things PPI policies  dont usually cover  like known health  issues or unusual 
employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him claiming the full policy 
benefit if hed needed to. And, from what Bradford & Bingley says, it seems Mr H did 
make successful  claims on it.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Mr and Mrs H. A mortgage  is a significant and 
long-term financial commitment and your home is at risk if you fall behind on your 
repayments. Although  it seems  Mr H got some sick pay at the time,  the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of his sick pay and, potentially, for longer  than it lasted.  And Mrs H 
doesnt mention  anything  else  like savings  or other  insurance policies they 
couldve relied on if things got difficult.  So I think having PPI wouldve given                    
Mr and Mrs H peace of mind  at what couldve been an uncertain time.
I can see the cost of the PPI after the initial free period is set out in Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage offer, and I havent seen anything  to make me think  they couldnt  afford  it.
Taking into account everything  Ive seen, I dont think Mrs H and Mr H lost out because of 
anything Bradford &  Bingley  did wrong so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280228