K821x#15complaint
Mr U has complained that 1st Stop Personal Loans  Limited (1st Stop or the lender)  should  
not have agreed  a guarantor loan for him in September 2013. 
Mr U says the loan was unaffordable for him and that 1st Stop would have  understood this 
had it carried out sufficient checks before agreeing to lend to him. Mr U explained  that he 
had a low income, that he had defaulted and missed  payments on other loans  and that this 
would have been apparent from his credit file record. 
background
1st Stop agreed a loan of £3,500 for Mr U on the 17 September 2013. The monthly  
repayment was £172.55 over a term of three years and the total amount to be repaid was 
£6,296.80. It seems Mr U immediately had difficulty meeting  his repayments via direct  debit. 
The loan was eventually  repaid in September 2017.  
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that 1st Stop should have gone further in 
its assessment of Mr Us ability to meet the loan repayments. And, had it done so, it would  
have found that he wasnt in a position to afford the repayments and so it should not have 
agreed to lend. Our adjudicator recommended that 1st Stop refund the interest  and charges 
Mr U paid on his loan plus 8% simple interest per annum and remove any negative 
information about it from his credit  file. 
1st Stop disagreed with this recommendation and said that it had sufficient evidence to 
support its view that the required  checks were carried out when Mr U applied  for his loan. 
The complaint has now come to me, as an ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
1st Stop hasnt  provided any further  comment or information in response to our adjudication 
so I will make my decision on the basis of the information available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
I have set out part of the relevant legal and regulatory framework that 1st Stop was subject to 
over the period it lent to Mr U in an appendix  at the end of this decision. This includes  some 
of the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act including later amendments, and guidance and 
rules provided by the Office of Fair Trading (the OFT)  who was the regulator at the time.
Under this framework, in order  to hold a consumer credit licence 1st Stop was obliged to lend 
responsibly. As clarified by the OFT, this meant that it needed to make a reasonable 
assessment as to whether or not a borrower could afford  to meet  its loan repayments  in a 
sustainable manner  over the lifetime  of the agreement. Repaying debt in a sustainable 
manner meant being able to meet the repayments  out of normal income while meeting 
normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these repayments. 
Neither the law nor the OFT specified what level of detail was needed or how the 
assessment was to be carried out in practice.  The OFT said that the level of detail would 
depend on the type of product,  the amount of credit  being considered, the associated  cost 
and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation, amongst other factors.  
Ref: DRN54692052Its important to note that this means the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed. It 
was not an assessment of the risk to the lender,  but of the risk to the consumer.  So even in 
this case where Mr U had a guarantor who had agreed to step in and meet  repayments  in 
the event that he couldnt,  this doesnt absolve 1st Stop of its obligation  to assess whether in 
the first instance Mr U could meet his repayments  without undue  difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Us case, I have  considered the 
following questions:
did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing  Mr Us 
loan application  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown?
did 1st Stop act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Having considered everything, Im upholding  Mr Us complaint  about  his loan. I appreciate 
this will be disappointing for 1st Stop and I hope  my explanation below  makes  it clear why I 
have come to this conclusion. 
did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing  Mr Us loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As the OFT set out in its guidance, assessing  whether  or not a borrower  could meet their 
repayments sustainably  required  a check which was proportionate to the circumstances of 
the lending (loan size, term etc.) and to the financial circumstances of the consumer. 
Therefore, a lenders assessment would need  to be flexible  what  was reasonable for one 
consumer might not be so for another, or indeed what  might be reasonable for a consumer 
for one loan application might not be so for the same consumer for a different loan.  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater  and the customer is required to make payments for an extended  
period).
Let me start by explaining  that I have limited  information about  the loan or the agreement  
process. 1st Stop said in response to this Services request  for information about the 
complaint that due to the almost 6 years  gap it would not be reasonable to still hold the calls 
as this is outside of our retention requirements.  In addition we have  to request the file from a 
secure off site holdings  and to date have received no hard file. I appreciate that Mr Us loan 
was agreed some years ago but 1st Stop have been  unable to provide Mr Us credit 
agreement or any information  about  the guarantor arrangements.  
1st Stop says that it would  have completed a full income and expenditure checks  with both 
the applicant and the guarantor to ensure affordability. The lender said that Mr Us mother 
was the guarantor for the loan and it provided  payslips dated  August 2013 for both her and 
Ref: DRN54692053Mr U. It also provided  what it said was the guarantors income and expenditure figures. But 
the monthly income figure  given is about three times  the amount shown on the payslip. 
1st Stop also provided customer contact notes from early November 2013 to January 2018.  
These suggest that, while Mr Us mother may have made some payments  for the loan, it was 
actually his father who was guarantor. 
I appreciate that offering Mr U a guarantor loan could  reduce the risk to 1st Stop of not 
getting its money back as his guarantor might be required  to step in and meet  the 
repayments if Mr U could  not. But this doesnt  reduce or remove  the risk to Mr U of 
experiencing undue difficulty in meeting his repayments. And, as Ive explained above, it is 
the risk to Mr U which 1st Stop was required  to assess. I plan to say nothing  further about the 
affordability checks the lender carried out on the guarantors financial  situation. Not only do I 
have conflicting  and limited information  on this point, but in this case  I dont need  to make a 
finding on the matter because I am upholding Mr Us complaint for other reasons.
1st Stop said that it would have carried out a basic credit check  with a credit reference  
agency to confirm that Mr U had no county  court judgements against him and wasnt  
bankrupt. This would also check his application  for potential fraud. However, 1st Stop hasnt 
provided the results  of this check or any evidence that it took place.
1st Stop didnt  provide  any record of Mr Us income or expenditure. As mentioned, it has 
provided his payslip which shows Mr Us basic monthly pay as £873.  Mr U had some 
overtime pay that month which brought his net pay to £950,  but I dont think  its reasonable 
to consider his overtime payments as fixed given  his average monthly net pay for that year 
to date was less than £840.   
I dont know what Mr U told it about  his outgoings,  assuming it asked  about  those. But given 
that the loan repayments  would take up about 20% of Mr Us monthly  income and that he 
needed to be able to meet this level of repayment for three years,  I dont think  it was fair of 
1st Stop to rely on expenditure  information  from Mr U without verifying it. 1st Stop hasnt said 
that it took steps to do this and, altogether, I cant say it carried out a proportionate  check 
here.
what would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown?
Mr U has provided his bank statements from around that time. To be clear,  Im not 
suggesting 1st Stop should  have  necessarily asked Mr U for these as part of its assessment 
but it is one way of verifying what he might have said about his expenditure. 
I can see from these that Mr U had some outstanding debt  namely a long term loan with 
repayments of £268  taken  out a few months prior to this one. He also had credit  cards and 
an outstanding  home credit loan. These  combined  with his new 1st Stop loan payment meant 
that Mr U was committing to spending  more than half his monthly  income on repaying  debt, 
leaving about £400 to cover his normal living costs. Some of these are identifiable on his 
bank statements, for example mobile phone charges,  water  rates,  car tax, petrol and food 
costs. Other  identifiable  spend includes payments to betting  websites and betting  shop 
cashpoint withdrawals, which in August 2013  alone amounted  to more than his monthly 
salary. There  are other  cash  withdrawals and many large transactions which  seem to be 
payments to and from individuals and to and from other accounts. I think  its fair to say that 
Mr Us finances were  volatile. 
Ref: DRN54692054I dont know enough  about Mr Us circumstances to say that this loan was unaffordable on a 
strict pounds and pence basis. However,  given what I can identify of his spend on household 
bills and on a car, and on basics such as food and clothing, I think  its unlikely that he would  
have been able to afford  his repayments  in a sustainable manner. This is evidenced in the 
customer contact notes  which show that from the very beginning Mr Us direct debit for his 
loan payment was returned or was cancelled. 1st Stops call notes from early 2014  say that 
there was clearly a problem with the direct  debit date or account as it has failed numerous 
times. And I can see that his mother made some payments around this time. As mentioned,  
Mr U finally  repaid his loan almost a year later than originally  agreed.
Taking all of this into account  I think that, on balance, had 1st Stop carried out a 
proportionate check for this loan, it would have learnt enough  to decline to lend to Mr U 
because it would have  seen that he wasnt likely to be able to meet his repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  And so I find it was irresponsible to have agreed  to lend to him in this 
instance and it needs to put this right.
what 1st Stop needs to do to put things right
In order to put Mr U back in the position  he would have been in, had it not agreed to lend to 
him, 1st Stop should: 
-refund all interest  and charges Mr U paid for his loan;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Us credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  1st Stop to take off tax from this interest.  1st Stop must  give Mr U 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Us complaint for the reasons  set out above and require 1st Stop Personal  
Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN54692055Appendix  The legal and regulatory background  to the lending
This appendix contains some of the laws and regulatory rules and guidance that I have 
borne in mind  when  making my decision.  
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT)  had to have regard to when deciding whether  or not to grant  a consumer  credit  
licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicants  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicants employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
Ref: DRN54692056(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful or not)
Section 25(2B)  set out an example of the type of practice referred to in Section 25(2A(e)) 
and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible  lending.
section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Us loan was given  to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came  into force 
on 6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court  may determine that 
the relationship  between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
Ref: DRN54692057140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. This included  an additional requirement on 
a lender to carry  out an Assessment of creditworthiness which was set out in section 55B 
of the Consumer Credit  Act. Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
Ref: DRN54692058(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading 
In March 2010, the OFT issued its guidance on the test for irresponsible lending  for the 
purposes of the aforementioned section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The 
foreword to its Irresponsible  Lending  Guidance (ILG) set out its purpose saying:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFTs  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFTs view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection  and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrowers repayment  record  during the course  of the agreement, 
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and
Ref: DRN54692059treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance  if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFTs view, all assessments  of affordability should involve a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrowers financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
Assessing affordability,  in the context of this guidance, is a borrower-focussed test which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, 
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN546920510In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning  credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower experiencing 
(or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
Ref: DRN546920511a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower,  whether or an application form or separately
Section 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
-END-
Ref: DRN5469205