K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained that Metro Bank PLC didnt process  a transfer of her Stocks  and 
Shares ISA from her existing ISA manager (henceforth referred  to as Business A) to a 
Cash ISA in time to retain the tax benefits. 
In the event, Business A transferred the value of her ISA to a savings account shed 
previously nominated because it didnt receive  the transfer request from Metro Bank until 
after her Stocks and Shares ISA had matured.
Ms T has requested compensation  for the tax benefits shes lost indefinitely  on this sum of 
money because she always utilises her annual ISA allowance. She has also complained to 
Business A about its part in this process.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 24 August 2017 in which I thought  there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show Metro  Bank was responsible  for Ms T failing to transfer the value of her 
Stocks and Shares ISA from Business  A in time.  
I invited both Metro  Bank  and Ms T to comment on my provisional decision, a copy of which 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.
developments
Metro Bank  responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Ms T disagreed with my provisional  findings and asked me to reconsider it because:
she broadly accepted  that neither Metro Bank nor Business  A was wholly responsible  
for her financial loss but they are certainly  jointly responsible and my decision doesnt  
recognise any concept of joint liability;
shes never seen the full transfer form completed by Metro Bank until the adjudicator  
sent her a copy of it. At the time,  the form was presented to her on a tablet. She 
wasnt aware there was a first and second  page (with incorrect  data on the first 
page), that would have been more  obvious  in paper form. She was only shown  the 
second page when asked  to sign the form;
she signed the transfer  form at Metro Bank in good faith without realising that the 
number of her transferring  ISA entered was incorrect.  Indeed, she wasnt shown that 
page of the form.  She doesnt  find it fair or reasonable that shes responsible for the 
wrong account number being entered when she wasnt given  the opportunity to 
check it - this absolves the banks representative  from exercising any due care and 
diligence;
Metro Bank used a transfer form headed: Metro Bank: Cash ISA transfer.  So, she 
signed the form in good faith that it referred to the receiving ISA and not the 
transferring ISA from Business A. Unbeknown  to her at the time, this caused a further 
delay as Cash ISA and Stocks and Shares ISA transfers were  processed by different 
offices of Business  A;
she was assured by Metro Bank  that there  was adequate time for the transfer of 
funds - she assumed  the form would be sent to Business A electronically on 
16 November 2016. Had the correct form been  used, the deadline of 17 November 
2016 should have been met;
Ref: DRN57575232given Metro Bank made three  errors  using the wrong transfer form, an incorrect  
number for the ISA and the form sent to the wrong  department of Business A  its at 
least partly  responsible for her loss of higher  rate tax benefits of £126  a year 
indefinitely.
In response to Ms T comments,  Metro  Bank  provided a copy  of its internal process note for 
administering ISA transfer requests. This states  that it required its representative to complete 
the transfer application electronically in front of Ms T. 
Once the application was completed, the whole  document should have been  printed for Ms T 
to check before she signed  the paper application.  Ms T would then be notified  that the 
transfer could  take up to 15 business days. And, as her transfer application was completed 
in the afternoon of 16 November 2016,  it would have been sent to Business A by first-class  
post on the morning of 17 November 2016. 
 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outcome of this complaint turns on Ms Ts dealings with Metro Bank when completing 
the ISA transfer  application on 16 November 2016. And, as she is the only party  to this 
complaint who was present at that meeting, I do give weight to her version of events at that 
time.
But I must also have regard for the two distinct documented processes - requiring different 
transfer forms - Metro Bank says it would have followed for transfers-in of a Stocks  and 
Shares ISA and a Cash ISA respectively from another ISA manager.  And, as I understand 
Ms Ts transfer  application was handled  by a trainee under supervision, I think its 
reasonable to believe  that the appropriate  process  would have been strictly followed for the 
transfer Metro Bank understood Ms T wished to make.
At that meeting, a Cash ISA transfer form was completed by mistake and the account 
number entered  on that form was that of a savings account Ms T she held with Business A, 
and not that of her Stocks and Shares ISA. 
But I just dont know how the discussions between Ms T and the representative at the time 
led to Metro Bank completing a Cash ISA transfer form - whether it came across  to the 
representative that Ms T wanted  to transfer  a Cash ISA (when  what she really  meant was 
that she wanted to transfer her Stocks and Shares ISA to a Cash ISA) or Metro  Bank  
misunderstood intentions  Ms T had made  clear  that she did indeed  wish to transfer-in a 
Stocks and Shares ISA to a Cash ISA.
Also, Ms T says she handed the representative  a wallet of documents,  which included a 
statement quoting the number of a savings  account with Business A the representative 
entered on the form as details  of existing ISA to be transferred. The representative wouldnt 
have known this account number otherwise. Ms T says she didnt see a printed copy  of the 
whole transfer  form to sign; Metro Banks  procedure calls for the whole form to be submitted 
in paper form, signed by Ms T, and the form does  carry her signature.
Ref: DRN57575233Notwithstanding why Ms T handed over paperwork for an account that wasnt  the ISA she 
wanted to transfer,  that she did so made it imperative for her to check the details Metro Bank 
had entered on the form before signing it.
As I also said in my provisional  decision, the incorrect account number and the proximity of 
the transfer request to the deadline  set by Business  A to process  the transfer are more  
significant to the outcome of this complaint  than the type of transfer form used or the 
address to which it was sent.
 
Business As ISA maturity letter to Ms T stated that: As your maturing investment is an ISA 
or an ISA (ex PEP), youll  lose the tax benefits associated with your ISA if you dont provide 
us with your instructions before  the date stated  [17 November 2016]  and your  money is 
removed from the plan.
So, when Ms T visited Metro Bank on 16 November 2016, it was already too late to meet  
Business As deadline given the completed paperwork wouldnt be posted until the morning 
of 17 November 2016. 
I previously noted that Business A appeared to have given Ms T more time to provide her 
transfer instructions  when  it wrote to her on 23 November  2016 asking her to contact Metro  
Bank with the correct  account number, so it could send the transfer request again.
But, although Ms Ts Cash ISA transfer  form quoted the number of a savings  account  (and 
not her Stocks and Shares ISA), Business A might  be expected  to have known  that she held 
an ISA with them when  it wrote to her on 23 November  2016, but not necessarily one that 
had already matured  on 21 November 2016 that required her to provide transfer  instructions 
before 17 November 2016.
So, I dont think Business As letter  of 23 November 2016 was offering Ms T an extension  of 
the deadline for providing her transfer instructions. It was simply inviting her to re-submit her 
transfer request  without  knowing the details of her ISA or that the transfer deadline for the 
ISA had already  passed.
As such,  even if Ms T had completed  a Stocks and Shares ISA transfer  form quoting  her 
Stocks and Shares ISA number, and the form had been posted  direct to the correct 
department, Business A would have  still written to Ms T, as it did, on 24 November 2016 to 
confirm that shed missed  the deadline and the value of her ISA had already been  credited to 
her nominated bank  account.
          
All the same, I cant say theres sufficient evidence to hold Metro Bank responsible  for the 
errors on the ISA transfer request form. And, in any event, I dont think  those errors caused  
her to miss the deadline for providing  her instructions because that deadline had already 
passed once Metro Bank had completed  her request and posted it to Business A.
If Business A had been  prepared to extend  this deadline beyond 17 November  2016  - even 
though theres  no evidence  that it would do so - and the deadline had still been missed  due 
to the errors on the transfer  request form, its still my view that it was Ms Ts responsibility to 
ensure that the details entered on the form were correct, however the form was completed.
It is true that Ms T has lost the tax benefits she might have retained indefinitely if shed 
provided Business  A her transfer instruction in time.
Ref: DRN57575234But I dont think I can hold Metro  Bank  responsible for Business A failing to receive  her 
instructions in time to avoid this financial loss she says shes suffered.
          
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint against Metro  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57575235COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms T has complained that Metro Bank PLC didnt process her request to transfer the maturity value of 
a Stocks and Shares ISA from her existing  ISA manager (henceforth referred to as Business A) to a 
Cash ISA in time to retain  the tax benefits.  The funds were transferred to her nominated account 
because Business A didnt receive the transfer request from Metro  Bank until after her existing  ISA 
had matured.
Ms T requests compensation for the tax benefits shes lost indefinitely given  she always utilises her 
annual ISA allowance.
background
Ms T says that she visited her local branch  of Metro Bank on 16 November  2016 to arrange  the 
transfer. Although  she provided the adviser  with the correct account  number, the wrong account 
details were entered on the transfer  form. She also says that, because the adviser kept all the 
paperwork, she wasnt  able to check that the account details were correct  before she signed  the 
transfer forms.
As a result, Business A wrote to her on 23 November  2016 to ask for the correct account details. 
However, before she had the chance to do this, it transferred the proceeds to her nominated deposit 
account on 24 November  2016.
Ms Ts existing  ISA was due to mature on 21 November  2016.  The deadline to make Business A 
aware of her intentions was 17 November 2016. After it couldnt offer her a favourable  deal Ms T 
decided to transfer  to a Cash ISA with Metro Bank instead.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who felt it should be upheld. Briefly,  he 
said that Metro  Bank made  three errors  when arranging the transfer, as follows:
it completed a Cash ISA transfer form and not a Stocks and Shares ISA transfer form;
the account number was written on this form was a savings plan held by Ms T and not her 
Stocks and Shares ISA number;
the application form was then sent to Business As savings team rather than its investment 
team which  was in a different location.
As the transfer form incorrectly quoted  a savings account number, Business  A returned it to Ms T so 
Metro Bank could resubmit the request with the correct account number. 
Also, Business A would  have  assumed it was a Cash ISA Ms T wanted  to transfer. It couldnt have 
known from the information  provided that it was a Stocks  and Shares ISA. So, until it received the 
correct account details,  it wouldnt have been able to re-direct Ms Ts request  to the correct 
department.
But, by then,  it was too late for Ms T to give Business A the correct details before  the deadline of 17 
November 2016. It didnt receive her instruction before  the ISA matured on 21 November 2016 either, 
so the proceeds were transferred to her nominated  account.
The adjudicator accepted that, in contacting Metro Bank on 16 November 2016,  Ms T left little, or no, 
time at all for the transfer to be processed. But he thought Ms T was entitled  to assume that Metro 
Bank would  act in her best interests  and deal with the transfer request correctly. 
Ms T says that during the meeting in the Metro Bank branch she handed all the paperwork  to its 
representative who then completed the application electronically on her behalf.  Consequently, she 
Ref: DRN57575236wasnt able properly to check that the details  entered on the transfer form were  correct before she 
signed it. She couldnt have known either that Metro Bank had used a Cash ISA transfer form that 
would be sent to the wrong department of Business  A. But for these errors, the transfer of Ms Ts ISA 
to Metro Bank would have  been completed and her funds would not have lost their tax status.
Ms T says shes a higher rate tax payer and uses her entire £500 personal savings  allowance every 
year. So the adjudicator considered shed lost valuable tax benefits. He recommended  that Metro 
Bank should compare the net interest rate currently being earned by the funds  outside the ISA with 
the gross rate that would have been achieved  inside the ISA. This loss assessment should assume  
her tax benefits would be lost for five years, her tax status wouldnt change and ISAs remained 
available in the future with the same tax advantages.
In response, Metro Bank disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment  and said that Business A was 
responsible for Ms T losses:
the Cash  ISA transfer form is the form it always send  to any bank switching  an ISA. As such, 
it doesnt agree that it sent Business A the incorrect form;
the account details provided on the form would  have  been given to them by Ms T as they 
dont have access  to Business As systems  to know that the account number provided wasnt 
correct. Ms T gave them the incorrect account number and it isnt fair or reasonable for Metro 
Bank to be held accountable for the information Ms T provided their representative. Also, Ms 
T signed the transfer  form confirming all the details were correct; 
the transfer form was sent to the address  that is held on the TISA  database and Business A 
did respond to the request. 
also, they had details of their customer so it would not be unreasonable for them  to have 
called Ms T to confirm  her request. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred  to me for review. 
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T also made a complaint  about  the role of Business  A in this matter, which was dealt with as a 
separate case by our service. In response to this complaint, the adjudicator concluded that Business 
A had no case  to answer and Ms T accepted this view. Therefore, this decision only addresses the 
complaint Ms T has made against Metro  Bank.
My understanding is that Ms T held a Stocks and Shares  ISA with Business  A which was due to 
mature on 21 November 2016. Business A wrote to her on 14 October 2016 advising her of this, 
stressing that she needed  to notify  them on the accompanying Maturity  Option  Form before 17 
November 2016 if she wished to reinvest the maturity  proceeds in another one of their products. 
Alternatively, she could transfer  the funds to another ISA manager as long as she notified Business  A 
of her intentions, again, before 17 November  2016.
Otherwise, if she wanted to take the maturity proceeds as cash, or didnt notify Business A before 
17 November 2016 how she wished to proceed, the funds would automatically be transferred  to her 
nominated account quoted in the Maturity  Option Form.
Business A did include a warning in its letter that: As your maturing investment is an ISA or an ISA 
(ex PEP),  youll  lose tax benefits associated with your ISA if you dont provide us with your 
instructions before the date stated above [17 November  2016]  and your money  is removed from the 
plan.
Ref: DRN57575237It seems Ms T did wish to reinvest her ISA proceeds and contacted Business  A in good time for an 
appointment to discuss the current investment products  it offered. In the event,  she says her local 
branch couldnt arrange  an appointment  for her until 16 November 2016, whereupon she was advised  
it didnt offer a product that suited her. 
In my view,  given Ms T needed to have made a decision by 16 November 2016, its reasonable to 
suggest that, in the meantime, she might have booked an earlier appointment with another  branch of 
Business A or checked their product range online.
As it was, she then visited a local branch of Metro Bank that day and decided to transfer the proceeds 
of her Stocks and Shares  ISA to a Cash  ISA, offering  an interest  rate of 1.5% per annum.
Ms T says she handed  a bundle of documents to the Metro Bank representative who completed the 
transfer form. It seems  the representative entered on the form as the account number of the ISA 
being transferred the number of a deposit savings account from an annual statement  it seems Ms T 
included in this bundle of papers. The representative wouldnt have  known about  this account  
otherwise. As this wasnt the account number  of her Stocks and Shares ISA, or even the number of 
her nominated account  on the Maturity Option  Form, its difficult to understand why Ms T handed over 
paperwork for this account, especially as some  of this documentation did include a statement  for the 
Stocks and Shares ISA which quoted its account number. 
In the circumstances,  given Ms T says she just gave the representative a collection of paperwork, 
much of which didnt belong to her Stocks and Shares ISA, I think  it was imperative that she checked 
what Metro  Bank had entered  on the form before signing it.
In my view,  the incorrect  account  number and the proximity of the transfer request  to the deadline set 
by Business A to process the transfer are more significant to the outcome of this complaint than the 
type of transfer form used  or the address to which  it was sent.
 
According to HM Revenue & Customs  rules, a Cash  ISA transfer  should take no longer than 15 days 
and a Stocks and Shares ISA transfer no more than 30 days. This implies  that the transfer cant  be 
expected to complete immediately and explains why Business A wrote to Ms T on 14 October  2016, 
around five-and-a half weeks before  her Stocks  and Shares  ISA was due to mature. When Ms T 
visited Metro  Bank on 16 November  2016, there was no time to meet  Business  As deadline  of 17 
November 2016. I dont know  if Ms T warned Metro Bank of the transfer deadline before it sent the 
transfer form to Business A by first-class post on 17 November 2016. In accordance with HMRC rules, 
its service level agreement  requires it to process this transfer within 15 days.
Having said that, it seems Business A was prepared  to give Ms T more  time to complete the transfer 
even after the ISA had matured on 21 November 2016  when  it wrote  to her on 23 November 2016 
asking her to contact Metro Bank with the correct account number, so it could accept the transfer 
request again.
But, as Business  As office that was actually responsible for processing Stocks and Shares ISAs  
hadnt received any indication that Ms T wanted to transfer to another  ISA manager, it transferred the 
ISA proceeds to her nominated account on 23 November 2016  as soon as the ISA had matured.
           
In my view,  if the correct account number  had been entered  on the transfer form,  even though it was 
sent to Business As address that processed Cash ISA transfers, the likelihood is that Business A 
would have identified  from the account number that the investment was a Stocks and Shares ISA and 
passed the transfer  request  to its other office.  As Business  A probably received the transfer form from 
Metro Bank by post on 18 November 2016, I think its Stocks and Shares ISA office would  have been 
able to process the transfer before the ISA matured.
In my view,  its the incorrect  account  number on the transfer form thats caused Ms T to lose tax 
benefits when Business A transferred her ISA proceeds to her nominated  account. And it was Ms Ts 
Ref: DRN57575238responsibility, in signing  the transfer  request form, to ensure  that the details entered  on it were 
correct. 
Therefore, for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  think theres sufficient  evidence to persuade me 
that Metro Bank is responsible  for the financial loss Ms T says shes suffered.   
       
provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Ms Ts complaint.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757523