K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave her 
loans irresponsibly.
background
This complaint relates to two instalment  loans,  each repayable over 12 months, given to 
Miss O as follows:
Loan No Amount Date lent Date  repaid Repayments pm
1 £1,000 22.3.18 2.5.18 £166
2 £1,200 17.7.18 Outstanding £199
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Satsuma had done anything wrong in providing  these loans  
and so recommended that the complaint wasnt upheld. Miss O didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Miss O could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN50562012Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
Satsuma has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss O. It asked her to provide  
details of her income and to detail what she normally spent each month   including what  she 
paid towards any other credit arrangements she had. Satsuma carried  out checks on 
Miss Os credit  file, and told us it then adjusted the expenditure figures where it thought  it 
appropriate to reflect Miss Os actual financial circumstances as accurately as possible.
Loan one
I think the checks Satsuma carried out were  proportionate for the first loan - and the 
information Miss O provided  to it indicated that the loan was affordable.  This was Miss Os 
first loan with Satsuma, so I think it was entitled  to rely on the information  she provided. Also 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of Satsumas checks and this doesnt  show anything that 
I think should reasonably have made it think that this loan wasnt  affordable for Miss O.
I dont think Satsuma was wrong  to provide  loan one to Miss O.
Loan two
Loan one was originally scheduled for repayment  by 28 March 2019 by 12 monthly 
instalments. In practice, Miss O repaid the loan earlier than scheduled  after just a little over 
one month.
There was then a gap of slightly over two months  before  Miss O applied  for loan two. Miss O 
declared her income to be higher than at the time of loan one. And, whilst she stated her 
expenditure was the same as at the time of her prior loan, I can see that Satsuma  applied  
even bigger buffers to these figures  which resulted in a lower level of apparent disposable 
income. Despite this, I think that the loans repayments wouldve still appeared to Satsuma to 
be affordable. And there had been  nothing that might indicate to Satsuma that Miss O had 
experienced any difficulties in repaying its first loan.
Here again,  I can see nothing within the results  of Satsumas checks  that I think shouldve 
caused it to consider that Miss O was experiencing financial  difficulties. In all of these 
circumstances I dont  think  it was wrong  for Satsuma to provide loan two to Miss O.
Im sorry  that Miss O has been experiencing financial difficulties, and I have no doubt  that 
this decision will come as a disappointment  to her  but Im afraid that, for the reasons set 
Ref: DRN50562013out above, I dont  think  that Satsuma acted irresponsibly in providing  these  two loans to her. 
As such,  I wont be asking  it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5056201