K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the charges that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited has made for 
damage to a car that was supplied to him under  a conditional sale agreement. 
background
Mr M acquired a used car from Clydesdale through a conditional sale agreement in 2015.  
Mr M voluntary terminated the agreement in June  2018 and handed the car back. 
Clydesdale sent the car to an auction house  to be sold who inspected  the car on 
Clydesdales behalf. The inspection report highlighted a number of areas  of damage to the 
car, which it said would cost around  £2,350  to repair. And Clydesdale said that, under the 
terms of the agreement, Mr M was required to pay this. It referred  to the following damage:
tear to the carpet
chips on the front windscreen
damage to the front seat cover
dent on the roof
chips on the bonnet
front alloy was missing the centre cap
alloy wheels were  scuffed
paint contamination  to the rear boot
rear bumper had some scratches
scratch and dent on the rear quarter panel
The car was eventually sold at auction  for £4,900. But Clydesdale  said the market value for 
the car was £5,775. So it thought the damage had affected the value by £875. So it reduced 
the amount it thought Mr M owed to this. Mr M still didnt think  this was fair. He thinks  the 
damage that was there was down to ordinary wear and tear that was consistent  with the age 
and mileage of the car.
Mr M also complained that Clydesdale  took a further  direct debit payment. Clydesdale 
refunded this. But hes unhappy that when he called to query the direct debit, Clydesdale 
didnt tell him there was an issue with damage to the car.
Clydesdale still thought it was fair to charge for the damage.  It said it had assessed this in 
line with guidelines set by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) as to 
what it would  consider to be fair wear and tear.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said that the BVRLA guidelines are usually only 
applicable to new cars.  She said that the damage needed to be assessed  against the fact 
that Mr Ms car was around seven years  old and had travelled  over 72,000 by the time it was 
handed back. She reviewed the damage Clydesdale wanted  to charge for and she thought  
that most  of it would be considered fair wear and tear for the cars age and mileage. 
However she thought  Clydesdale  could  charge  for the missing  cap on the front alloy and for 
the dent to the rear quarter panel  - £205.95. So she thought Clydesdale should refund this 
plus 8% simple interest. She also thought it should pay him £200 in compensation.
Clydesdale didnt accept  the investigators findings.  It queried  where  the BVRLA had said 
that their guidelines  only applied to new cars.  It said that the terms of the agreement say that 
Mr M was required to take reasonable care of the car and it would be inspected in line with 
the BVRLA guidelines.
Ref: DRN53916022Clydesdale said that the car sold for £875  less than the market value so it maintains that it 
was fair to charge Mr M this rather than the full cost of repair of around £2,350.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  upholding  this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Theres no dispute that the terms of the agreement allows Clydesdale to charge Mr M for 
damage to the car that would be considered  more  than fair wear and tear.
Clydesdale has assessed the damage against  guidelines set by the BVRLA.  But I think  this 
guidance is intended for new cars that are returned before or at the end of their first finance 
agreement. I also note that they also specifically say that when the members review 
deterioration to the vehicles condition  at the end of a contract or a finance agreement, the 
age, mileage and use of the vehicle are taken into account. So they do say the cars age 
and mileage needs to be taken into account.  Further to this, the BVRLA  has also confirmed 
to us that the guide is intended  for cars around three years old coming to the end of their first 
agreement.
Given this, it would be unfair to apply  a similar test to older cars  such  as Mr Ms car. In this 
case, Mr Ms car was around seven years  old and had travelled  over 72,000 miles. And I 
think any damage needs to be assessed  in line whether its reasonable to expect this type of 
damage, given  its age and mileage.
However, I disagree with the investigator  that the majority of the damage is whats 
reasonably expected given the cars age and mileage. I need to think  whether a reasonable 
person would take the specific damage into account when deciding whether to buy a car or 
not. And I think the photos Clydesdale has given us shows that the majority of the damage  
that its charged for is more than fair wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage.
However, I think the following damage would be considered fair wear  and tear:
the tear on the carpet was very small;
the damage to the cover on the front seat is very minimal; 
the alleged  dent on the roof and the paint contamination on the boot arent clear. Given  I 
cant see the damage, I dont think Mr M should  be charged for these; and
the dent on the rear quarter panel  is very minimal.
I think the remaining  damage would be considered to be more  than fair wear and tear. Ive 
looked at how much Clydesdale has said it will cost to fix these issues  and I think  a fair 
charge would be around £525. This is based  on the costs Clydesdale  estimated  for repairing 
the damage and estimating around £60 to remove the scratch  on the rear quarter panel. 
So I think Clydesdale should refund £350 for the amount its looked to charge him. It should 
add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from when he paid it until he gets it back.
I think this matter has caused Mr M some distress  and inconvenience. But I think this is 
largely down to having to pay further charges. It appears that he may have  been  told on the 
telephone initially  that he owed over £1,000.  And I think this was unfair  given what  Ive said 
above about the damage. But he was still unhappy that Clydesdale had asked him to pay 
£875. And I think its most likely  he would  have still been unhappy had Clydesdale  said he 
owed £575  as it should have done.  So I dont  think hes lost out because of Clydesdales 
Ref: DRN53916023error. And I think paying 8% simple interest on the extra hes had to unfairly  pay is sufficient 
compensation for this.
I can see that Clydesdale took a further direct debit  payment after Mr M handed the car 
back. But this was only four days after the car was handed back. So I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable the payment was taken. And Clydesdale refunded  this back  to him within  a 
week of him raising  this. So, while I can appreciate  Mr M was unhappy about this, I dont  
think it needs to compensate  him for this as it took fair steps  to put things  right quickly.
Clydesdale responded to say it accepted  my provisional decision, Mr M didnt  accept my 
provisional decision as he didnt think it was a fair outcome. He said there wasnt  any 
damage to his car and there wasnt  anything to show  that there was. And he thinks  the 
investigators opinion  was the fair outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Mr M says that there  
isnt anything to show that there was damage  to his car. But Clydesdale has provided 
photographs of his car when it was returned. And Im satisfied that this shows  there  was 
damage to his car when he returned it. And my provisional sets out what  I think its fair for 
Clydesdale to charge for.
Ultimately, while I acknowledge Mr M is unhappy with what  I said,  neither party has given  me 
anything further  which makes me think the outcome I reached  in my provisional decision is 
unfair. So I still think its fair that Clydesdale should  refund  Mr M £350 for the amount its 
looked to charge him. It should add 8% simple  interest per year on this amount from when 
he paid it until he gets it back.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  to refund £350 for the amount its looked to 
charge him. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from when he paid the 
charge until he gets it back. If it thinks its required to deduct  tax from this interest payment it 
should provide  Mr M with a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5391602