K821x#15complaint
Mrs I complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject  
the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mrs I is represented by her daughter but for ease of reading Ill just refer to Mrs I.
Mrs I tells us she acquired the vehicle,  as new, in October 2017. But after a few months  she 
said she began to have  issues. She says the vehicle was very noisy  and uncomfortable to 
drive as a result. She says shes been  back and forth to the dealers about ten times. And 
that despite attempts at repairs the problems still persists. She says the noise is particularly 
loud at speeds of over 40mph. Shes had enough  and wants to reject  the vehicle and end 
the agreement. Mrs I also complains that BMW have ruined the interior of the vehicle during 
the attempts to repair the vehicle. She says shes  repeatedly  tried to get information from the 
BMW dealership - but that her requests have been largely ignored.
BMW told us the first repairs were carried out around seven months after supply.  And that 
further repairs were undertaken in June 2018 - which  Mrs I had accepted. It said there was 
no evidence to show the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when  supplied.  And that it 
would not accept rejection of the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She said Mrs I had started  
to experience a loud,  creaking noise  in May 2018 and had taken the vehicle back  to the 
dealer. Repairs  were  done but Mrs I reported the same problem a month later. She said 
further repairs were carried out but that Mrs I continued to report a noise. And in September  
2018 the vehicle was again returned - and a rattle was identified.  The investigator  said she 
hadnt received  any comments  from BMW about this latest  work.
She thought  that as this was a new vehicle, and had covered relatively low mileage a 
reasonable person would not expect the multiple rattles and noise. So she thought the 
vehicle was probably not of satisfactory  quality  when supplied.  She recommended  Mrs I 
should be allowed  to reject the vehicle.  And that in view of the impaired enjoyment Mrs I 
should receive back 10% of monthly  repayments  for May and June 2018 and from 
September 2018 to date. And that she should also receive £200  for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs I accepted this view but BMW did not. It said that unless  the consumer could prove the 
fault was present at the point of sale then she was not able to reject the vehicle. As its not 
been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has been  asked  to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56355252Im sorry  that Mrs I has experienced  the problems shes described. Im sure that when she 
acquired this new vehicle she was looking forward to an extended period of trouble-free 
motoring. The disappointment  when a brand new vehicle fails to live up to expectations is all 
the greater than might be experienced  than if it was an older vehicle which  failed.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. And where  evidence is unclear or incomplete - as some of it is 
here - I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide 
what is the most likely  explanation  to account  for whats happened.
I should also explain that I do not apply  the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And 
relevant legislation here is the Consumer Rights Act, 2015. In summary, this says that an 
item should be of satisfactory quality when supplied.  And that is defined as being  what  a 
reasonable person would think was satisfactory. This includes being free from minor defects 
and having durability. 
Mrs I says shes been back  and forth to the dealers about ten times. And whilst Ive only 
received documentary evidence of three such visits Ive no reason to doubt what  she says. It 
may be that as nothing  was done on some  of those visits they were not recorded. But I have  
seen an email dated 27 September 2018 from a BMW service  manager who Ill call A.
This details  the following:
18 May 2018 - Window guides replaced for creaking noise
26 June 2018  - Clean roof trims and seals for noise
14 September 2018 - Master tech carried out road test with consumer for rattle.  Confirmed 
rattle and that it would  take 13-20 minutes  to fix.
Its clearly not in dispute that the vehicle has suffered from unexplained noises over a period 
of time. And I find BMWs  argument - that as this was first noticed after seven months  its not 
liable - to be both unconvincing and unattractive.  The relevant legislation does not say - as 
BMW seem to infer - that just because a fault is first observed more than six months after 
supply this means the vehicle was satisfactory  at the point of supply.
The vehicle was brand  new when supplied - with a cash price of over £39,000 - and in my 
opinion no reasonable person would expect the vehicle to develop the condition described  in 
such a short space of time. And I doubt if any manufacturer would wish to openly advertise  
that - if this did occur - it would not consider  itself to bear any responsibility.
Theres little or no evidence as to what  is causing  this condition - but given its so obvious 
that it should not be happening I dont think I need dwell on this. There have been at least  
three attempts at repairs - and Ive seen no evidence the issue  has been resolved. In my 
view Mrs I would have been entitled to reject the vehicle upon  the need  for a second repair - 
so she shouldnt be penalised for her tolerance  in accepting the later attempts.
In summary  , I think it more likely than not that the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied and - given that repairs have failed to resolve the issue - that Mrs I should  be 
entitled to reject it and end the agreement.
Ref: DRN56355253As Mrs Is had the use of the vehicle its only right that she should pay for that use. But its 
also clear that for much of the time that use has been impaired.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint.
Im ordering  BMW Financial Services (UK) Limited  to:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mrs I to pay. (Subject to the payment of all 
sums and charges  arising under the agreement due at the date of termination).
2.Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mrs I.
3.Refund the advance payment of £8,250.
4.Refund 10% of monthly payments for May and June 2018  and from September 2018 
to date of termination  - to reflect impaired use.
5.Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
6.Subject to the payment  of all sums and charges due, to make arrangements to have 
all details of the agreement removed from Mrs Is credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 3 and 4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5635525