K820x#14complaint
Mr M says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) automatically upgraded his current 
account in 2015 to a packaged  account,  which was free at the time due to him being a 
NatWest employee. He says it then began charging a monthly fee without warning  in 2017, 
causing him to go overdrawn.
background
Mr M was a NatWest employee and needed  to have  a NatWest account.  Mr M says NatWest  
automatically upgraded his account to a packaged  account in 2015 without his permission.  
When he left the company, he says he wasnt informed that he would then have to start 
paying a fee for the packaged account.
NatWest says that Mr M chose to open  a packaged  account and that he had the option of a 
regular current account if he wanted  one. It also says Mr M was informed that he would no 
longer receive  a packaged account for free when he was no longer a member of staff,  and 
he would  therefore  incur a monthly fee. 
Our adjudicator investigated and thought it was more likely Mr M did choose to take out the 
packaged account. And he felt that NatWest  had done enough to inform Mr M that he would 
be charged a monthly fee for the packaged account  when he was no longer an employee.  
Mr M disagreed so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered whether Mr M chose to take out a packaged account or if NatWest  
automatically upgraded it without his knowledge.  Mr Ms account history is as follows:
opened as an Advantage  Gold account  in September 2011,
migrated to a Select Platinum account  in July 2015,
converted to a fee free current account in February 2019.
Mr M says he thought his account was upgraded from a normal  current  account  to a 
packaged account in 2015.  But Mr Ms account was already  a packaged account in 2015, 
because it was opened as an Advantage Gold account in 2011, which  is a packaged  
account. NatWest made the commercial decision to phase out Advantage Gold accounts  
and move their account holders over to a similar  product. In Mr Ms case,  he was moved 
from an Advantage Gold account to a Select Platinum  account. 
Mr M initially opened his account over the telephone. I dont  have a copy of the call itself,  
which isnt unreasonable considering the account was opened over nine years  ago. But I 
have seen a copy  of the application checklist that was completed by the NatWest 
representative during the telephone  call. This shows that Mr M requested the Advantage 
Gold account and it says a welcome pack would be sent to Mr M within  ten days  detailing  
the benefits of the account.
Ref: DRN56041622As Mr M was an employee  of NatWest, he would receive the additional benefits attached to 
the account for free. At the time that included worldwide travel insurance, mobile phone  
insurance and car breakdown cover  amongst  other things. On balance,  I think its more  likely 
Mr M agreed  to take out the Advantage Gold account because he found the additional 
benefits at no cost appealing. 
From what  Ive seen of the telephone  application  checklist, I dont think the representative 
recommended the account to Mr M. This means  they didnt have to check  the account  was 
suitable for him, but it still needed to give him enough information about  the account  so he 
could make sure he wanted  it. 
I think its likely the representative told Mr M about  the main benefits  on the account, seeing 
as they were trying to make the account  sound  attractive to him. Though its possible he 
wasnt told everything he needed to know about  the ins and outs of the account. But I dont 
think better information about  the account  would have  affected his decision to take it out.   
Mr M has said he drove, had a smartphone and travelled worldwide a few times a year. So, 
he could have made use of the benefits on the account, at no additional cost to him at the 
time. 
On balance, I think its more likely  Mr M chose to take out the Advantage Gold  account for 
the benefits available on it which he could have for no monthly fee. 
Mr M has said that when he stopped working for NatWest, he wasnt made  aware that he 
would be charged  for the packaged  account.  Because the Advantage Gold  was not his main 
account, when  he was charged  the monthly  account fee, he didnt notice, and this took him 
into his overdraft. Ive carefully considered this, and it should be noted  that I must  consider 
NatWests actions as an account provider and not as an employer as that would be outside 
of my remit.  
NatWest has provided me with a copy of a Leavers Pack that was issued to employees 
leaving NatWest in the same year as Mr M. So, I think its likely this is at least similar to what 
Mr M would have seen at the time.  While I appreciate there is a lot of information in the 
booklet, this does cover off employees  with packaged accounts. It says under the section 
colleague banking  that those with a packaged  account who resign will be entitled to 
benefits for 1 month from date of departure.  Your account will then revert to customer rates. 
Or if an employee is made redundant, they will have the benefits  for free for 6 months from 
date of departure  at which point it will revert to customer  rates, meaning the normal monthly 
fee will be charged from then on. So, I think its more likely NatWest  did inform  Mr M, both 
when the account was sold to him and when he left NatWest, that he would  have to pay a 
fee for his packaged account  once  he no longer  worked for NatWest.  
On balance, having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think  Mr M chose to 
take out a packaged  account when he opened his account with NatWest because  he could 
have the benefits for free. And I think NatWest  did enough to inform Mr M that once he was 
no longer an employee of NatWest, he would have to start paying a monthly  fee for his 
packaged account. So, I dont think it is reasonable that NatWest should refund the account 
fees Mr M has been charged since he left NatWest.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN56041623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5604162