K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
Mr B applied for a credit card in April 1995 and the PPI was also sold at this time.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr B, Barclays shouldve made it clear  the policy was optional.  It 
also shouldve got Mr Bs agreement to take it out. Mr B says he would not have knowingly 
agreed to take out the PPI. As the credit card and PPI were taken out during a meeting I 
dont know what was discussed.  Where I have limited information about  a sale,  I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the information and evidence  I have seen.
Barclays has given us a copy of the application form that was completed at the time of sale. 
On this I can see there is a separate section called Payment Protection Plan and a tick has 
been placed next to the option: Yes, I want my Barclaycard account to be covered against 
unemployment, accident, sickness and death.  There is also an option  below  this to decline 
the cover. I dont  know what was discussed at the time Mr B took out the card, but I wouldve 
expected Mr B to read over the form and raise any questions he had at the time before 
signing it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr B knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place  many years ago.
Barclays advised Mr B to take out the policy. So it shouldve  made  sure the policy was right 
for him. Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time the PPI was sold,  I 
think it was. I say this because:
Mr B appears to have  been eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Bs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr Bs told us he wouldve received some  sick pay from his employer.  The PPI 
couldve been of use to Mr B as it wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding  balance on 
the card for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work  due to illness  or if he was made 
redundant. This wouldve  been  on top of any sick pay he wouldve got, meaning  he 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
Ref: DRN53443932Barclays has told us the PPI wouldve cost Mr B 69p per £100  of his outstanding  
monthly balance. I havent seen anything to suggest  this wasnt  affordable to Mr B.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr B, Barclays also shouldve given him clear  
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not to 
take it out. I dont  know what  steps Barclays took to do this and its possible  some things 
werent explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont  think  clearer  information  
wouldve changed Mr Bs decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same  
reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
So taking everything into account, including Mr Bs comments, I dont think Mr B lost out as a 
result of anything Barclays mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5344393