K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a loan with Nationwide in January 2004. At the same  time, 
Nationwide sold them a PPI policy  that covered Mrs G only.
Mr and Mrs G borrowed  extra  to pay for the policy, which was added to the loan and 
attracted interest. The policy covered the loan repayments if Mrs G lost her job or couldnt 
work because of an accident  or sickness. It also offered her life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed. So the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. Mr and Mrs G mainly  say that the limitations of the 
policy and the costs werent properly explained and that at the time they had sufficient 
provision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
Nationwide hasnt been able to give us a recording of the phone  call with Mr and Mrs G 
when it sold them this loan with PPI or any sales script. So I dont know  what was said about 
the PPI. But Nationwide did send Mr and Mrs G some paperwork to sign. And Ive seen a 
copy of Mr and Mrs Gs signed  loan agreement.   
The loan agreement  shows  that Mrs G was insured for disability, unemployment and life. 
And on this form it described PPI as Optional  Credit Insurance. So I think Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve seen this information when signing the agreement. And if the PPI hadnt previously 
been discussed and agreed  to, or they wanted any more information about  it, I think  they 
probably wouldve  contacted Nationwide to ask about it. I havent  seen  any evidence that 
this happened. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs G have forgotten  some details from the sale 
as this was so long ago. But, on balance,  I find that they agreed to the PPI knowing it was 
optional, and decided  to take out the policy to cover Mrs G.      
Nationwide said it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs G. This means Nationwide  
didnt have to make sure the PPI was right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs G 
clear enough  information  for them to be able to make  a properly informed decision about 
whether to buy it. 
Ref: DRN54096562Mrs G was eligible for the policy. She was working  and in good health. It doesnt look like 
she wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt  cover. It also provided  
a proportionate refund when Mr and Mrs G repaid the loan early,  so they didnt lose out 
financially when they did that.   
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Gs loan payments for up to 12 months  per claim if Mrs G 
lost her job. And it wouldve paid out until the loan was repaid if she was continuously too ill 
to work. Mr and Mrs G say they had other  ways  of meeting the repayments. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs G mightve got and in full for longer. This 
means Mr and Mrs G couldve used her sick pay for other  everyday  expenses.  And this 
couldve been a particularly useful benefit  at whats likely to have been a difficult time if 
Mrs G needed to claim as she mightve  had extra  costs if she was ill or disabled.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs G also had savings. But the policy couldve paid out 
for a lot longer than the amount of savings they mentioned wouldve lasted if theyd had to 
use these to pay the loan. And it looks like they preferred not to spend savings, or they had 
other plans  for that money, since they took out this loan rather  than use all their savings  to 
reduce their borrowing. Having PPI meant  Mr and Mrs G could  depend on being able to 
continue to keep  savings intact  to spend on other things or to provide financial security for 
the future.  
Nationwide didnt have  to check Mr and Mrs Gs other means  it was up to Mr and Mrs G to 
decide if this policy offered  them  useful  benefits. And from what  theyve told me about their 
joint circumstances at the time, I think it did. So I can understand why they chose to take out 
the PPI at the time.  
The loan agreement  explains how much the policy cost and the other cost details clearly, 
including how much interest they could pay on the policy. So I think  Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
been able to see this information,  even if they later forgot the cost details. In the event, they 
didnt pay everything  thats shown on the loan agreement as they settled their loan early and 
received some money back when they did this. 
I cant be sure Nationwide did everything  it shouldve done when it sold this policy. But 
Mr and Mrs G chose to take out PPI for Mrs G when they didnt have  to. So it looks  like they 
wanted to have the protection  it offered.  They  couldve benefitted from the cover if Mrs G 
had needed to make a claim. The insurance  seems to have been  affordable  for them at the 
time. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve put them off taking  out the PPI. And, overall, 
I find that Mr and Mrs G havent lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide mightve done 
wrong.  
Ref: DRN54096563my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5409656