K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex)
handled a chargeback.
background
In 2016 Ms B booked,  and paid a deposit  for, a holiday apartment  through a third party
companys online rentals  marketplace (company A). In doing so, she had to agree to
company As terms and conditions entitled traveler  (sic) terms of use which included a
payment protection policy (the terms and conditions).
She paid the remaining balance through company  A in 2017 using her Amex  credit card.
Company A, in turn, eventually forwarded the monies  less any booking fees and applicable
fees or taxes  to the apartment  owner (the owner).
Having arrived at the apartment, Ms B says that it wasnt  as described. In particular, it had
two bathrooms   as opposed to three as advertised  and it was dirty.  She says that she
complained to the owner who had it cleaned  but the standard was still unacceptable. Ms B
couldnt find alternative, suitable accommodation  as everywhere  within  the area was fully
booked. So she stayed at the apartment for the rest of her break.
Upon returning  home,  Ms B contacted Amex and a chargeback was raised against
company A, resulting  in a refund to Ms Bs credit card.  But company A defended the
chargeback on the basis  that Ms B had failed to notify them of any issues  within  24 hours of
her arrival at the apartment. She had also failed to vacate the apartment by midnight  on the
first day of the rental  period. As both had been  conditions of the payment protection  policy,
as outlined in the terms and conditions,  Ms B wasnt eligible for a refund.
On this basis, Amex decided not to pursue the chargeback further  and re-debited  Ms Bs
card. Ms B complained  to Amex about this decision and also said that she hadnt been
notified about the re-debit,  causing  her to incur interest.
Amex didnt think that theyd mishandled the chargeback. They explained to Ms B how she
had failed to comply with the terms and conditions and that she had stayed at the apartment
for the duration  of her break. So she wasnt eligible for a refund.
Ms B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator didnt
think that Amex had mishandled the chargeback. So he considered  whether Ms B ought to
have been reimbursed through a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974
instead (s.75).
Our investigator explained that for s.75 to apply there would have to be a
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  (DCS) in place  in this case,  Amex,  Ms B and the
owner respectively.  But as Ms B had paid company A, and not the owner, the requisite DCS
link was broken and so s.75 couldnt apply to her contract with the owner.
Ms B disagreed and said that there  was a DCS  link between Amex and the owner. In
particular, she referred  to section 2.2 of the terms and conditions, which states that
company A wasnt party to any contractual relationship between  Ms B and the owner. She
also said that company  As role was that of a merchant acquirer or payment collection agent,
and referred to the following two Court judgments:
Ref: DRN52320962The Court  of Appeals judgment  in Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank  plc and
others [2006] EWCA Civ 268, which stated  that merchant acquirers dont break  the
DCS link (the OFT case).
The High Courts judgment  in Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland  v
Alfred Truman  (a firm) [2005]  EWHC 583, which stated that in certain circumstances
payment collection  agents  can extend their DCS arrangement with the creditor onto
the supplier (the Truman  case).
Ms B was also unhappy about the fact that Amex hadnt considered a s.75 claim at all.
Our investigator agreed that section  2.2 of the terms and conditions referred to a direct
relationship between Ms B and the owner.  But he didnt think this evidenced an arrangement
between Amex and the owner. He also didnt think that company A met the definition  of
either a merchant acquirer or a payment collection agent. So although Amex hadnt
considered a s.75 claim, there had been no detriment to Ms B, as s.75 couldnt have applied.
Ms B remained unhappy and so her complaint was passed onto me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision as outlined below. And the complaint has now been passed back  to me 
for a final decision.
I note that Amex have  now refunded Ms B the interest that was charged  when her card was
re-debited. And so that part of her complaint no longer requires my consideration.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
Given the issues that Ms B communicated to Amex,  I think  they made the right decision in
raising a chargeback on her behalf. But as company  A defended the chargeback  Amex  then
had to consider  that defence and decide whether to take the dispute any further  through
arbitration. So I need to decide  whether  Amexs  decision not to do that was a fair and
reasonable one.
To assist me with that, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions. In particular, the payment
protection policy at section 10. Clause 10.5(d) confirms that company A would reimburse
Ms B for any material differences  or defects  with the apartment. But clause 10.6 goes onto
expressly exclude cleanliness from the definition  of material  differences and defects.
Furthermore, clause 10.7(g) states that Ms B would not be provided with any reimbursement
arising from material differences  or defects if she failed to notify  company A of the issues  no
later than the first day of the rental period and if she failed to vacate the apartment  by
midnight local time on the day of check-in.  Its not in dispute that Ms B failed to do either of
these things.
Ive also noted  that under  section 13 of the terms and conditions,  company A wasnt liable
for any inaccuracies or errors  relating to the description of a property.
Ref: DRN52320963In defending the chargeback, company A not only referred to the conditions  of the payment
protection policy but also explained the importance of being  notified of any issues on the first
day of the rental period  that is to say, a report to them within 24 hours would have given
them an opportunity to investigate and prevent payment  to the owner.
Furthermore, company  A provided Amex with an email from the owner  who confirmed that
Ms B had requested a reclean upon check in. The owner said this was completed on the
same day. As was Ms Bs request for the property manager to set the thermostat and
explain how the electrical outlets worked.  The owner believed that Ms B was happy  with the
results and there was no indication of any other  problems throughout her stay. She also
didnt leave a bad review upon  check out.
So it appears that any issues with the cleanliness of the apartment wasnt covered by the
payment protection policy. Nor was company A liable for any inaccuracy  in the description of
the apartment. But even if this hadnt been  the case, Ms B failed to notify company A of the
problems or vacate the property as required under the terms and conditions.
Ive considered Ms Bs explanation about  being  unable to find alternative accommodation
but I dont think  this can explain why she didnt, at the very least, notify company A of the
issues on the first day of the rental  period. The failure to notify  alone  was enough to void the
payment protection policy and meant that company A lost the opportunity  to withhold
payment from the owner while Ms Bs concerns were investigated.
Plus Amex was given evidence from the owner which, given Ms B stayed at the apartment
and failed to notify company A of any issues, could be evidence that arguably suggests  that
she was happy  with the rest of her stay.
So based  on all of this evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable of Amex  to decide that
company A had provided sufficient evidence  to defend the chargeback. It therefore wouldnt
have been appropriate for Amex to pursue the matter further through  arbitration.
S.75 claim
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other
things, any relevant law. In this case,  the relevant law is s.75 which says that, in certain
circumstances, if Ms B paid for goods and services on her Amex  credit card and there was a
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier,  Amex  can be held responsible.  In
particular, s.75(1) states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
S.12(b) applies to:
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b)  and is made  by the
creditor under pre-existing  arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements,
between himself and the supplier
And s.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use credit agreement as a regulated consumer credit
Ref: DRN52320964agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)  other than the
creditor
So the first question I need to decide  is what transaction  Ms Bs credit  agreement with Amex
financed. To that end, it seems  clear from the terms and conditions (clauses 2.2 and 8.5 in
particular) that Ms Bs payment to company A financed  two contracts:
(a) The contract with company A for the use of their site to make the booking and to
      obtain the benefit of the payment protection policy; and,
(b) The contract with the owner, to rent the property.
I therefore next need to consider whether  s.75 applies  to those two contracts. In particular,
whether company A and the owner  each had arrangements with Amex for the purposes  of
creating a DCS link. And, if so, whether there  was a misrepresentation or breach of contract
that Amex is jointly liable for.
(a)Company A
Clearly company A, or their associates,  had an arrangement  with Amex because  they were
authorised to take Ms Bs card payment. So I dont think it can be disputed that s.75 applies
to Ms Bs contract with company A. That being  said, I dont think that company A
misrepresented anything or breached  their contract with Ms B, so Amex wouldnt be liable to
her. Ill explain why.
As far as the accuracy of the apartments  bathroom facilities is concerned, Ms B has been
unable to provide  the original advertisement at the time of her booking. So I dont have any
evidence of a potential misrepresentation. But even if I did have that evidence, clause 13.2
of the terms and conditions makes  it clear that company A has no control over,  or
involvement in, the accuracy of property details.  So I think  its unlikely that company A would
have misrepresented anything to Ms B or be liable for a misrepresentation by the owner.
As for any breach of contract, Ive carefully  considered the terms and conditions. In
particular, clause 1.1 describes company As services as providing:
..an online platform along  with various  tools and services that enable property owners or
managers (Owners) to list rental properties,  enable travelers (sic) to book such properties,
and enable both parties to communicate  with each other  (the Services).
And Clause  10.1 included a payment protection policy  as follows:
We provide  the Payment Protection Policy  (the Policy) to Travelers (sic) who pay online
using our Payment Platform for rental of Properties. If you do not agree to the terms and
conditions of the Policy,  then you have no right to obtain reimbursement or claim any other
rights under the Policy. We may revise this Policy  at any time and at our sole discretion by
amending the applicable  web page on the Website or by publishing notices elsewhere on the
Website.
By viewing,  booking and paying  for her accommodation through  the online marketplace
Ms B received these full services. She also received the payment protection plan but
company A was entitled to refuse reimbursement under those terms for the reasons already
Ref: DRN52320965outlined in relation to the chargeback above.
So there doesnt appear to have been  any breach of the terms and conditions by 
company A. It follows that even if Amex  had considered a s.75 claim,  I think  that its more 
likely than not that they would have declined it  meaning that Ms B hasnt been 
disadvantaged by Amex not considering  a claim.
(b) The apartment owner
Unlike company A, the owner didnt receive payment directly from Amex.  They  were one
step removed,  dealing only with company A. This doesnt automatically mean that the DCS
link is broken. The limits of what may constitute an arrangement in law arent  defined, but
they can be indirect as in the Truman case.
So I have  considered whether the nature of company  As role was of a kind that meant they
extended their arrangement with Amex to the owner.  Again, Ive been assisted by the terms
and conditions. In particular, clause 8.5 states:
You acknowledge and agree that We are not a party to the Rental Agreement  between you
and the Owner.  Notwithstanding that fact, We act as the Owners payment collection agent
for the limited purpose of accepting  payments  from You on behalf of the Owner.  Upon
receipt of Your payment  to Us on behalf of the Owner,  Your payment obligation to the Owner
for the Booking  is extinguished and We are responsible for arranging  remittance of the
payment (less the booking fee and any other  applicable fees or taxes) to the Owner,  in the
manner described  in these Traveler  (sic) Terms  of Use. In the event that We do not arrange
remittance of any such amounts as described in these Traveler  (sic) Terms of Use, the
Owner will have recourse only against  Us.
Ive also looked  at the Owner terms of Use on company As website  which is what  the
owner would  have had to agree to. In particular, 3.2.1 echoes  clause  8.5 above by stating:
We will provide Owners with an online payment platform  (Payment  Platform), giving them
the ability to accept online payments from Travellers. You hereby appoint Us as your limited
payment collection  agent  solely for the purpose of accepting funds from Travellers on Your
behalf. You agree that payment made by a Traveller  which  we receive  on Your  behalf  via the
Payment Platform shall be considered the same  as a payment made directly to You and You
will provide  the Booking to Travellers in the agreed-upon manner as if You had received the
Travellers funds directly. The Travellers obligation  to pay You is extinguished upon Our
receipt of the Travellers  funds on Your behalf,  and We are responsible  for arranging
remittance of Your payment in the manner described in these Owner  Terms  of Use. In 
accepting appointment as Your  limited  payment collection agent, We assume no liability for
any of Your acts or omissions.
Generally, We will hold the money paid by Travellers until 24 hours after the Booking has
commenced, whereupon We will, on Your behalf,  instruct a payment  service provider to
initiate the transfer of payment to the Owner  for the Booking (less  any applicable fees or
taxes) with the Traveller on the next business  day (excluding public holidays)...
Given these terms and conditions, I think that the relationship between  Amex and the owner
in this case was more tenuous than the one in the Truman case  for the following reasons.
In the Truman case, the Court  drew attention to the fact that the purchasers provided  their
Ref: DRN52320966card details to the supplier who, in turn, passed those details onto a firm acting  as their
payment collection  agent  for processing (the firm).  But in Ms Bs case, the owner had no
direct involvement in taking her payment. They  wouldnt have handled her credit card details
and so probably wouldnt have been  aware  about  the particular mechanism that was being
used by company  A to collect  payment.
In further contrast  with the Truman  case, company A doesnt hold and pay out money  in
accordance with the owners instructions. It remits to the owner  only what  they believe is
contractually due, after taking their own share of the monies.
The Court in the Truman  case also found  that the firm was acting as an agent of the supplier
and not as a stakeholder. In particular,  the card holders  contracted with the supplier and had
no contractual relationship with the firm. But in this case, Ms B undoubtedly  had a
contractual relationship with company A under  which  she obtained use of the booking
service and company  As payment protection policy.
So I dont  think that company A can be described as the owners payment collection agent in
the way envisaged by the Truman case. Company A received Ms Bs payment in their own
right as principal as well as in the capacity of payment processor for the owner.  This means
that company  A was itself a supplier of services to Ms B and not just an intermediary for
payment purposes.
I also cant agree that company A was acting as a merchant acquirer in the terms outlined in
the OFT case.  As Ive said above,  clearly company A contracted  with Ms B to provide her a
service.
So based  on all of this, I think  its unlikely that the DCS agreement  between Amex and
company A was extended to the owner. The contract  between  Ms B and company A was
directed towards  receipt and transmission of customer payments in general, as opposed to
creating an arrangement between Amex and the owner.
So, again,  even  if Amex had considered a s.75 claim against the owner  I think its more likely
than not that they would have decided that s.75 couldnt apply to the contract between Ms B
and the owner.
the response to my provisional  decision
Amex have confirmed  that they accept my provisional decision and have nothing  further to 
add.
Ms B has made several points. As part of that response she has also provided  a copy of a 
letter  together  with attachments  that she sent to Amex in September  2017. In summary, 
Ms B has said the following:
Chargeback
A consumer  is entitled to dispute the outcome  of a chargeback. Yet Amex failed to ask Ms B 
to address company As defence. So it was unfair  and unreasonable not to proceed  to 
arbitration. 
Furthermore, Ms B cant understand how Amex and I can say that she was happy  with the 
rest of her stay.
Ref: DRN52320967S.75 claim: company A
Ms Bs Amex  card payment didnt  finance a contract with company A. She didnt pay to use 
their website. Nor did she make a booking or communicate with the owner. Company As 
service was provided entirely  to the owner  and was free of charge for Ms B.
Similarly, the payment  protection policy  was also provided to Ms B free of charge as a 
means of ensuring  that the owner  didnt attempt to avoid  paying company As fees.
In any event, clause  13.2 limiting company As liability  for inaccurate advertisements is an 
unfair contract term. Any term excluding liability for misrepresentation has to satisfy a 
reasonableness test  which this clause doesnt.  Its also not possible to limit or exclude 
liability for fraud. In any event, company A receive a commission for sale and advertising  
so ensuring accurate advertisements is their responsibility and they failed to make proper 
checks on the facilities of the property. 
Similarly, the terms of the payment protection policy excluding cleanliness and requiring 
Ms B to vacate the property by midnight  on the day of check-in were also unfair and 
unreasonable contract terms. In particular, company A knew  that Ms B would have been 
unable to find suitable alternative accommodation  at short  notice given the popular time of 
year.
S.75 claim: the owner
Ms B disagrees with my statement that the owner  was one step removed and didnt receive 
payment from Amex directly. In any event, Ms B still believes that company A was acting 
solely as the owners  payment collection agent.  She has pointed to the following in 
particular:
As stated above, Ms B had no contract  with company A and didnt pay for their 
services. Plus the payment protection policy was for the owner  and not her.
In relation to my comment that company A received Ms Bs payment in their own 
right as principal, their terms and conditions  state that company A dont have a 
capacity in this transaction. But it cant work  both ways   theyre either  a payment 
processor or not. 
If Im suggesting that company A had no contractual  involvement  in the transaction  
then they are deemed not to exist and therefore payment must have been taken by 
the owner directly.
In any event, as was the case in the Truman  case, the owner  didnt have card 
facilities and nor were they a member of a card scheme. And company A acted for 
the owner and upon their instructions. As evidence  of this, Ms B has provided a copy  
of an email relating  to her damage deposit  in which company A confirms that they 
would refund the deposit if the owner  didnt report any damage.
My comment about the owner not handling  credit card details was a spurious point 
because if theres  no contractual relationship with Ms B then it doesnt matter.
In any event, the fact that company A doesnt hold and pay out money in accordance 
with the owners  instructions doesnt matter because they have a contractual  
agreement with the owner to pay them the monies owed regardless of the owners 
instructions.
Its unfair for me to take into account the Owner terms of Use  when  drawing 
parallels with the Truman  case  because  no reasonable  consumer would have  read 
Ref: DRN52320968those. In any event, those terms and conditions make it clear that there is a direct  
monetary link between Ms B and the owner and that company A is solely  an 
intermediary for payment purposes .
Alternatively, a merchant acquirer is a payment processor. So company A is a merchant 
acquirer. 
Furthermore, stating that Amex would have likely declined the s.75 claim  amounts  to making 
arguments for them.
Finally, Ms B says that there were two factual  inaccuracies within  my provisional  decision. 
The first is my reference to her not being able to provide  a copy of the original 
advertisement. The second, is my reference  to the owner stating that they believed Ms B 
had been happy with the remainder of her stay. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence,  arguments and my provisional findings to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also 
considered Ms Bs further evidence  and comments.
Before I address Ms Bs specific comments under each of the three headings, it would  first 
be helpful to address the other general points she has made. 
Relating to any inaccuracies, at the time of my provisional decision I hadnt been provided  
with a copy of the original  advertisement, so my comment was accurate. But Ive now been  
provided with Ms Bs letter to Amex dated September  2017 and the accompanying 
attachments. One of those attachments was the original advertisement.  So I accept that 
Ms B provided that to Amex at the time of her complaint.
As for the owners  email,  my provisional findings  outlined what  the owner had said within 
their email.  The fact that Ms B disagrees  with the owners opinion  doesnt make that 
summary inaccurate. Ive re-checked  the owners  email and Im satisfied that my summary of 
it is accurate. So I dont accept that there  was a factual inaccuracy  on this point.
Its unclear why Ms B believes that I cant take the Owner  terms of Use into account. I have 
at no stage suggested that there was an expectation  on her to have read those. Indeed, I 
agree with her that a traveller wouldnt normally do so. But that doesnt prevent me, within  
my inquisitorial remit, from taking that evidence into account when deciding the roles played  
by all respective parties and the services offered by company A. I am not therefore going to 
exclude that evidence in any way.
Finally, I dont think that my findings  that Amex  would  have  likely  declined the s.75 claim 
amount to making  arguments for them. Having decided that something went wrong here  
that is to say Amex  failed  to consider a s.75 claim   I then need  to consider what  would have  
happened if things  hadnt gone  wrong.  That necessarily includes an analysis of the likely  
outcome of the s.75 claim in order  to decide  whether anything  needs to be remedied.
Ref: DRN52320969Chargeback
When considering  this issue  Im only considering  the actions of Amex  under the card 
scheme rules. That is to say whether or not Amex  acted  reasonably  in deciding not to pursue 
the chargeback.  
The chargeback that Amex raised was for goods or services not as described or defective. 
They were  presented with plausible evidence  from company A, as outlined  in my provisional 
decision, that showed that their terms and conditions  excluded their liability for any 
inaccuracy. And that Ms B hadnt complied  with the payment protection policy terms.  
In any event, in their letter to Ms B dated  December 2017 Amex said that on this occasion 
bathrooms may have  referred to toilet, restroom, shower room,  washroom and similar  
facilities. This was a reasonable  conclusion to reach given the following evidence.
The attachments to the September 2017 letter include an inquiry summary which stated 
that the property  had 3 bathrooms. The description from owner  at the time of the booking 
also referred to bathrooms 3 at the top. But the detail that followed didnt expand on this 
meaning or indeed reference the bathrooms at all. Plus in her letter  dated  September 2017 
Ms B outlined how the owner informed her that the local meaning of bathroom may or may 
not include a bath. 
So Im unable to go as far as saying Amex acted  unreasonably in deciding  not to take the 
chargeback further.  Having decided that, they didnt need to give Ms B an opportunity  to 
comment further. Nor would Ms B have  been  entitled to dispute the outcome of the 
chargeback through pre-arbitration or a second chargeback as she has suggested.  Thats 
entirely a decision  for Amex. Instead, Ms B would have been entitled to complain  about  the 
outcome, which  she did. And Amex  addressed  her complaint fully. 
Finally, I havent said that its an established fact that Ms B had been happy  with the rest of 
her stay. After all its not for me to say what Ms B does or doesnt think  and I have no reason 
to doubt she genuinely remained unhappy. My point here was that, regardless of Ms Bs true 
feelings, it wouldnt have  been unreasonable of Amex to place weight on the owners opinion 
when considering to pursue the chargeback  given  that Ms B stayed at the property for the 
rest of her stay.
S.75 claim: company A
Ms Bs comments about not having paid for or entered into a contract with company  A for 
their services isnt borne  out by the evidence available to me. Clause 1.1 of the terms and 
conditions states:
[Company A] . provides an online platform along  with various tools  and services that 
enable property owners or managers  (Owners) to list rental  properties,  enable travellers  
(sic) to book such properties,  and enable both parties to communicate with each  other (the 
Services).
And Ive already also cited clauses 2.2 and 8.5 within my provisional decision. In particular, 
clause 2.2 states:
Ref: DRN523209610The Site is a venue only for the purposes of facilitating interactions and rental transactions 
between Owners and Travelers (sic). The . Company is not, and does not become,  a party  
to any contractual  relationship between the Traveler and the Owner.
So a service was clearly being  offered  to Ms B  as well as the owner.  
As for whether that service was offered to Ms B for free, again the evidence doesnt  support 
this. Clause 2.4 of the terms and conditions states:
If You book a Property using the Payment Platform (as defined in Section  8.1), part of the 
price You agree to pay for the Booking will be a booking fee payable to Us to cover Your  use 
of the Site, Our provision  of customer support, and other business costs.  You agree not to 
circumvent or attempt to circumvent the booking fee. 
Furthermore, one of the attachments to the September 2017 letter  was a copy  of Ms Bs 
booking receipt  email. This made  it clear  that Ms Bs payment to company A included  a 
booking fee. At the bottom  of the email,  the fee was outlined as being chargeable in order  to 
help company A run their website and offer 24 hour customer service to Ms B. The email 
also confirmed that the booking fee was non-refundable in the event that Ms B cancelled, 
unless she did so within the 24 hour booking  period.
As for the payment protection  policy, its clear from clause 10.1 that this was part of 
company As service to Ms B and their booking fee as it was only offered to those travellers  
who used company As payment platform.  
In any event, looking at the terms of the payment protection policy,  I cant see how it can be 
interpreted as being aimed at ensuring  the owner paid their fees to company A. The terms 
are for the benefit and protection of travellers against malpractice by owners. Plus its clear  
from the Owner terms of Use that Ive already outlined that company A deducted anything  it 
was owed before sending  Ms Bs payment to the owner. So there doesnt appear to be any 
opportunity for the owner to avoid paying their fees that would  require a safeguard.
Based on all of this evidence, and the evidence outlined in my provisional decision, it 
remains clear  to me that Ms Bs payment financed a contract with company A.
So I now turn to the terms of that contract  and Ms Bs comments around unfair contract  
terms. She has cited the Unfair Contract  Terms Act 1977. But for contracts entered into after 
1 October 2015 the relevant legislation is the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (the CRA).  
But the principles  outlined by Ms B are nevertheless  sound. That is to say the CRA works  to 
ensure that terms and conditions in contracts with consumers are fair. It says contracts 
should be transparent and in plain and intelligible language. A term is unfair if, contrary  to 
the requirement of good faith,  it causes  a significant imbalance in the parties rights and 
obligations under  the contract  to the detriment of the consumer. 
Further, where there is ambiguity in relation to a term, the CRA provides that if a term in a 
consumer contract could have different meanings,  the meaning  that is most  favourable  to the 
consumer is to prevail.
Schedule 2 of the CRA provides a list of consumer contract terms which  may be regarded as 
unfair. Paragraph  2 on the list says A term which has the object or effect of inappropriately 
excluding or limiting the legal rights of the consumer in relation to the trader or another party  
Ref: DRN523209611in the event of total or partial non-performance or inadequate performance by the trader  of 
any of the contractual obligations, including the option of offsetting a debt owed to the trader  
against any claim which the consumer may have against the trader.
With all of this in mind, I dont think there is any issue with the transparency of the terms and 
conditions. Nor can they be said to not be in plain and intelligible language. So the crux of 
this point is whether  or not the terms and conditions in question caused Ms B an insignificant 
imbalance and were a detriment to her. And also whether company A inappropriately limited 
Ms Bs legal  rights. But I dont think they did for the following reasons.
As Ive already  outlined, the terms and conditions limited the remit of company As service to 
the facilitating of bookings  only. Clause  5.1.2 of the Owner  terms of Use corroborates that 
accurate descriptions  were the owners duty as follows:
You agree  that You will accurately describe and present the Property  and will disclose any 
material defects. You will not omit or misrepresent anything that may reasonably be thought  
to be material to the decision of a Traveller
Plus the attachments to Ms Bs September 2017  letter show  that she was in direct contact 
with the property manager before her trip. She asked about  various  aspects of the property  
including the size of the dining  table and fridge  as well as requesting the removal of a pet 
fee. I think this is further evidence that company A had no involvement in property  details or 
advertisements. 
So based  on the evidence available to me the accuracy of advertisements  wasnt part of 
company As contractual obligations. It follows that limiting  their liability in relation to any 
inaccuracies  that is to say a non-contractual  obligation  wasnt an unfair contract term.  
In any event, company  As payment protection policy offered Ms B protection  against 
material inaccuracies. So even if there  was an imbalance caused by the limitation of liability 
 which  I dont think there was  this was remedied by this policy. So I now turn to consider 
the terms of that policy.
I dont think excluding cleanliness was an unfair  term given that this wasnt  something  
company A could  reasonably control  or police. Once  again,  this would have been the 
owners responsibility. Plus cleanliness is a broad  concept that can have a different 
meaning, subjectively, to different people. So if anything, including  that within  the policy  
would have created  an imbalance  against company A.
As for Ms Bs point  about having to vacate the property   Im not sure this can be said to be 
an unfair contract term either. If a customer is unhappy with accommodation  then its 
reasonable to expect  them to vacate within a short period of time. Otherwise they could  
continue to stay at the accommodation, benefitting from it, and yet also avail themselves of 
compensation under the policy.  
That being  said,  if a traveller was unable to comply  with the term, despite trying, for reasons 
outside of their control  such as unavailable alternative accommodation  then I would 
expect consideration  to be given to nevertheless permitting a customer  to benefit from the 
policy.  
But that doesnt change the outcome  of this case because this wasnt  the only issue  that 
voided the policy. Ms B also failed to notify company A of any issues within  24 hours.  So the 
Ref: DRN523209612policy would have still been voided on this point alone. Company As explanation around  the 
24 hour timeframe is a plausible one and corroborated by clause 3.2.1 of the Owner terms of 
Use as cited in my provisional  decision. So I dont think this term can be said to be unfair  
either  I think that notification within 24 hours  is plenty of time.
In reaching these conclusions, I also note Ms Bs reference to it not being possible to 
exclude liability for fraud. This appears to be a general comment but I have nevertheless  
re-checked the terms and conditions. I cant see that company A has done that. In any 
event, theres no evidence of fraud that I can see in this case. Especially given the fact that 
the description of the property was silent on the definition  of bathroom.
S.75 claim: the owner
My statement  about  the owner being one step removed is an accurate fact given that Ms Bs 
payment went to company A who  in turn  remitted payment to the owner having first 
deducted their booking fee and any other  fees or commission. 
Ive already addressed Ms Bs point about her not having a contract with company A and the 
payment protection policy being  for the benefit  of the owner.  Those findings apply equally to 
this section of my decision too.
I havent said that company A had no contractual involvement in the transaction.  Indeed, Ive 
said the opposite  which is what takes  this case outside of the remit of the Truman case. That 
is to say, company  A has a contract  with both Ms B and the owner separately in their 
capacity as a principal service provider.  So their role extends beyond  the limited  remit of a 
payment collection  agent.  
It follows that I still think that my provisional  findings in relation to company A receiving 
Ms Bs payment in their own right as principal is correct. As Ive outlined, part of that service 
 for both Ms B and the owner  included processing her payment and remitting what was 
owed to the owner. But thats only one part of company  As overall  service.  The difference 
being that in the Truman case the payment  collection agents role was limited solely to 
processing the payments concerned  there was no additional service  being offered to the 
customers or the supplier. 
I dont have any evidence  to support a finding that the owner didnt have card facilities or 
wasnt a member of a card scheme. But regardless, the evidence  once again  doesnt 
support the conclusion  that company A were acting on the owners  instructions. After  all, if 
that was the case  then there would have  been no need for separate  terms and conditions  for 
travellers and a separate set of terms for owners. Its clear from both sets of terms and 
conditions  in particular the clauses  Ive specifically cited  that company A is a principal 
provider of services to both parties.
Furthermore, I disagree that the email  about the deposit is evidence that company A acts 
upon the owners instructions. The deposit  is something entirely separate to the contract 
price for company As services. Its clear from the terms and conditions that Ms B paid for 
that service as Ive already outlined. And the same applies to the owner given that section  4 
of the Owner  terms of Use clearly refers to company  A deducting their fees and commission 
from the amount  they remit to the owner  in recognition of their service to the owner. That 
section also outlines  applicable cancellation  charges if the owner is the one who cancels the 
booking  yet further evidence that the owner  was receiving a service from company A.
Ref: DRN523209613Furthermore, at the bottom of the deposit email   and indeed  at the bottom of Ms Bs 
booking receipt  email too  the small print states:
The company that facilitates your booking directly  with the property owner is [X], a wholly 
owned subsidiary  of [company A]. Neither  [company A] nor any other  company in our group 
ever acts as a property  owner, broker or agent.
I disagree that my comment  about  the owner not handling  credit card details was a spurious 
point. This was a relevant factor in the Truman case  that is to say, the supplier in that case  
had the contract  and relationship directly  with the customers concerned.  The solicitors firm 
then, in turn, acted  as the suppliers agent upon their instructions   with no contractual 
relationship with the customers. In this case, its the opposite. That is to say, its company A 
that has the contract and direct relationship with Ms B, including taking her payment   the 
owner has had no involvement in that.
The fact that company  A doesnt hold and pay out money in accordance with the owners 
instructions is also a relevant factor, despite Ms Bs suggestion otherwise. Thats  because  in 
the Truman case a key fact was that the payment collection agent had no stake in the 
monies. They processed the payments  and transferred the monies to the supplier upon the 
suppliers instructions. But in this case, both Ms B and the owner are charged  fees by 
company A and neither  party can instruct company A upon  or have a say in  the amount 
theyre charged or the way the monies  are handled. Indeed,  clause 4.4 of the Owner terms 
of Use gives company  A the right to vary the amounts chargeable.
I disagree that the Owner terms of Use make it clear that there is a direct  monetary  link 
between Ms B and the owner  and that company A is solely  an intermediary for payment 
purposes. It may be that Ms B is referring  to para. 3.2.1.2 of the Owner terms of Use which 
refers to a payment via company A being considered  the same  as a payment directly  to [the 
owner]. But its clear from that section that its considered the same in order  to protect  
travellers and ensure that their obligations  to the owner are fully extinguished once their 
payment has been made by company A. Its not confirmation that its an actual direct  link  
after all, for that to be true Ms B would have had to pay the owner  directly  without  
company As involvement. In any event,  as Ive already outlined  I fully accept that part of 
company As role was to process Ms Bs payment. But the important factor is that this wasnt 
their only role and the payment processing formed part of their overall, separate services to 
both Ms B and the owner. 
For all of the same reasons, I also dont think it can be right to say company A was a 
merchant acquirer. They offered contracted, paid for services to both Ms B and the owner 
that went beyond  payment  processing.
Overall, the terms and conditions and the Owner terms  of Use both provide key evidence  in 
support of the conclusion that company A was providing a chargeable service to both Ms B 
and the owner.  The nature of this extended  beyond the limited role of payment collection 
agent as considered by the Court  in the Truman  case. 
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind. I still think that s.75 can only apply to the contract between 
Ms B and company A. But there  was no breach  of contract or misrepresentation of 
company As terms and conditions.  
Ref: DRN523209614I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms B. But, although Im not bound  by 
the law, I need  to take it into account. And Ive explained how I think that both s.75 and the 
principles in the Truman  case apply  to the facts  of Ms Bs case.  These are legal principles 
that Im not willing to depart from.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232096