K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt provide the service it shouldve  done when she 
paid a foreign  denominated cheque into her account. She says the bank processed the 
cheque incorrectly and contrary  to her instructions.
background
Ms M says she deposited a foreign denominated  cheque in July 2018 at a Lloyds branch for 
crediting to her bank  account. She says the bank didnt  follow either its usual practice  or her 
explicit instructions. She told us:
the cheque shouldve been processed  by Lloyds  using  the negotiation  facility  she 
says this is the banks standard  practice and it was also her explicit instruction  but 
instead it was processed  using  the collection option. Ms M says this caused her 
cash-flow problems and upset her plans. And the branch  staff misled  her 
representative when  the cheque was being deposited.
there were considerable delays with the money being credited to her account  the 
funds were  only paid into her account in late September  2018  and she and her 
representative had to contact the bank on many occasions to chase up the payment.
shes still not been given a transaction note that confirms  the exchange rate and 
charges applicable to this transaction.
Lloyds upheld Ms Ms complaint. It acknowledged  that it hadnt provided  the service  Ms M 
shouldve been  able to expect and that by using  the collection facility  instead of the 
negotiation facility shed had to wait several weeks for the money to credit  her account. And 
it recognised that thered been  a movement in exchange rates in this time,  so Ms M had lost 
out.
Lloyds credited Ms Ms account with £613.06 to compensate her for what had happened. 
And it broke down the compensation as follows;
£75 to cover  the cost of the calls made  by Ms M to sort out this matter;
£63.89 to cover  the interest it says Ms M lost by not being able to deposit her funds 
into her savings account sooner;
£4.17  in respect  of the adverse movement  in the currency exchange rate;
£170  in fees charged by both banks in processing the payment  it agreed  she didnt 
get the service she shouldve  have, so it said she shouldnt be charged any fees;
£300  in recognition of the poor service  shed experienced and the inconvenience 
shed faced.
Ms M disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service. She said Lloyds offer didnt go 
far enough and it hadnt recognised the distress and inconvenience it had caused Ms M and 
her representative. She says the bank should pay her £1,500 - £2,000 to settle this 
complaint. She told us:
fffff
Lloyds didnt  handle her complaint properly; it left her to resolve the matter  with the 
foreign drawer of the cheque and she had to liaise with its bank. And when she asked 
it to change  the employee who was handling her complaint   Ms M says they lacked 
the expertise and understanding  to satisfactorily resolve  the matter  the bank 
continued to assign the same employee to her case.
Ref: DRN57963912The bank has misunderstood her loss  its limited  that aspect of the compensation to 
the two-month  period  she was without her funds  rather  than the wider loss of being 
unable to use the funds for her own purposes; the need to drastically  change  her 
plans; and the opportunity cost of funds.
Ms M says Lloyds need to feel the impact of a wrong they did and continued to 
compoundand take a lesson that they cannot be dealing with customers without empathy 
and understanding.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the bank  had apologised for the service it had provided and she thought  the 
compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms M disagreed and explained that Lloyds hadnt paid as much compensation as our 
adjudicator thought; shed  double counted one of the elements of the total compensation. In 
light of this, this Service  asked an experienced investigator to review Ms Ms complaint 
afresh. Our investigator reviewed the complaint  but said she didnt  think  it should be upheld 
and she wouldnt be asking Lloyds to pay any more compensation to Ms M.
Ms M still disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Ms M wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that. Ms M should note, however, that although I may 
not address each individual point that shes raised, I have given careful  consideration to all 
of her submissions before  arriving at my decision.
Having considered the evidence, Im afraid I have to tell Ms M that I think  the investigator  
has reached entirely the right outcome here.  To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what shes already  said,  and I think she has set out the position very clearly.
First of all, its important  that I explain that this Service  doesnt supervise, regulate or 
discipline the businesses  we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise  businesses for 
their performance or behaviour  thats  the role of the regulator, in this case the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  So with this in mind,  it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to comment  about 
staff training and performance, the paper forms and procedures that Lloyds has in its 
branches, or the policy  changes that Ms M might like to see.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and, in this case, see 
if Lloyds has done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been  in if the mistakes hadnt happened.  And we may award modest  
compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
In this case, because Lloyds  didnt  follow Ms Ms instructions, there was a delay in crediting 
her bank account with the foreign denominated  cheque.  Lloyds has confirmed the exchange 
rate that was applied and the slightly better  rate that would have applied if the cheque  had 
been correctly  credited.  Its paid Ms M an amount  equal to the adverse movement in the 
exchange rate together with a refund of the fees associated with this transaction.  And 
Ref: DRN57963913because it understood that she wasnt able to transfer the cleared funds to another  savings 
account as soon as she wanted,  its calculated the savings interest  shes missed out on and 
its paid her this as well. So, taking all this into consideration,  Im satisfied that the bank has 
put Ms M back  in the same financial position  she wouldve been in if it had followed her 
instructions at the outset and shed not experienced the delays in accessing her cleared 
funds.
Lloyds has also paid Ms M £75 to reimburse  her for the telephone calls she had to make in 
order to escalate  this matter and its paid a further £300 in recognition of the poor service 
she was given. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint, so I wont  be 
asking Lloyds to pay Ms M anything  more.
Ms M and her representative have also complained about the way in which Lloyds 
investigated this complaint;  both the length of time it took and the fact that they had to chase 
and follow  up matters  with the bank in order to progress the complaint.
Unfortunately, I cant look into these aspects of Ms Ms complaint. This is because  
complaints handling isnt a regulated activity, so I wont  be commenting on these broader 
concerns. However,  for background, a business  has eight weeks to respond to a complaint 
after which time a consumer can refer their complaint to this Service  (irrespective of whether 
or not the business has responded and resolved the complaint in full).
I know that Ms M will be disappointed with the decision Ive reached, but I hope she 
understands why Ive reached this conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5796391