K822xcomplaint
Mr R, on behalf of his mother  Mrs R, has complained  about  a loss assessing  company, 
Morgan Clark  Ltd, that was appointed  to assist his mother with an insurance  claim made  to 
her property insurers following a fire next door to her holiday  home.
background 
There was a fire in June  2016 and in August  Mr R, having to that point been dealing  directly 
with insurers, got in touch with Morgan  Clark.  They began assisting with the claim.  
Morgan Clark  introduced Mr R to a surveying company and it produced  a preliminary scope  
of repairs. It noted though  that this only included currently  visible damage and didnt make 
any allowance for repairing the party wall (the extent of damage  to it was currently unknown 
due to the unsafe conditions of the neighbouring property) or protecting  the building from 
damage due to either the party wall and/or the neighbours fire damaged  roof. The scope 
was put to tender. When the tenders came  back in January 2017 (two of which  were  priced 
at just over £94,000 and one of which came in at around £112,000) Morgan Clark passed 
these to the insurers loss adjuster who reportedly felt they were overpriced.
Morgan Clark  held several meetings with Mr R and other parties to discuss the claim.  
Morgan Clark  also corresponded  extensively with Mr R, by phone  and by email. By 
mid-March 2017  the insurer had made an offer to settle the claim at £50,000. Following 
further discussions Morgan Clark advised him that the insurer had increased its offer to 
£60,000. Morgan  Clark explained to Mr R in a meeting that this equated to around  90% of 
what the insurer said it felt fair reinstatement  costs were. Morgan Clark had reached an 
agreement to reduce  the lowest tender to around £91,000 and the insurer had said it would 
deduct around £24,000 from that, leaving a fair value of around £67,000 for the work 
necessary to reinstate the property, which would then be reduced to £60,000  to settle  the 
claim.
There were then further discussions and the loss adjuster told Morgan Clark that the insurer 
would increase its offer to £61,500  plus some monies for surveying fees. Morgan Clark told 
Mr R this was the best offer he was likely to get. Mrs R, having discussed  the matter,  
reluctantly accepted the settlement, although  not on a full and final basis  as she remained 
concerned that the money wouldnt allow her to reinstate the property. She also wasnt  
convinced it represented  everything she was entitled  to under the policy  because  there  was 
no allowance within it for carrying out any work to the party  wall or to allow her to protect her 
property from damage  caused  by the unrepaired  property next door. She wasnt  convinced 
that Morgan Clarks fees were reasonable, especially in light of the unsatisfactory claim 
settlement. A complaint  was made  to this service.
Our adjudicator issued  an adjudication.  He clarified  that we cant look at every activity  a loss 
assessor carries  out and that the focus  of this complaint would be whether Morgan Clark had 
provided a good  service  in negotiating the claim. He felt in many ways it had and that its fees 
for the work  were reasonable. But he also felt Morgan Clark hadnt negotiated  the claim to 
the best of its ability which  is what its contract with Mrs R bound it to do. He noted there was 
no evidence it had challenged the insurer regarding the random amounts it had deducted 
from the settlement  due to wear and tear, or that it had looked to secure any payment  from 
the insurer regarding  the party wall. He noted that the insurer had since  increased its 
settlement in these  respects and felt, if Morgan Clark had challenged it, that would likely 
Ref: DRN57776062have generated  a greater settlement earlier on. He felt Mrs R had suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of Morgan Clarks failures  and should pay £1,000.
Morgan Clark  agreed but Mrs R did not. Mr R, on behalf of Mrs R, said that Morgan Clark did 
nothing for them, apart  from talking  to them for hours trying to convince them all was going 
to plan. He felt the level of repairs hadnt  been  assessed properly and that 10% of any claim 
settlement figure was too big a fee in light of the fact Morgan Clark hadnt even been able to 
explain to them the actual basis for the deductions the insurer  was applying  to the tender 
value (which in itself didnt include a lot of the necessary work). He said the claim settlement  
from the insurer is still short because  of Morgan Clarks original work  and £1,000 wouldnt 
make up for its mistakes  or prevent it from acting this way again.
For its part Morgan Clark said that as Mrs R was challenging the finding, whilst it would still 
agree to pay the compensation,  it wanted it to be known that its operative  had challenged  
the insurer consistently in these respects  but the insurer  had stood firm. This insurer had 
maintained that £61,500 was all it would pay in settlement  for the reinstatement work. 
Morgan Clark  sent photographs as evidence  of the state of Mrs Rs property.
Our adjudicator noted the parties responses  but advised they didnt change  his view on the 
complaint. As Mrs R wasnt prepared to accept our adjudicators findings, the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision  to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find I agree with the 
outcome reached  by the adjudicator, Ill explain why.
Morgan Clark  and Mrs R, with assistance and oversight from Mr R, entered  into a contract 
for Morgan  Clark to handle Mrs Rs insurance  claim.  The contract said Morgan Clark would:
to the best of our ability obtain a speedy and satisfactory settlement.but.we give no 
warranty that a settlement  will be achieved within a specific time, or at all.
Here a settlement  was achieved and the timeframe for it really wasnt an issue.  In fact I think  
the settlement  was achieved quite quickly. The question for me then is did Morgan Clark 
work to the best of its ability in achieving  that? Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the 
answer is no. 
Let me be clear, I think Morgan Clark did do a lot of work and likely put in a lot of effort  to 
handle the claim  and negotiate the settlement for Mrs R  that much  is clear from its files. 
Not least it arranged and attended various  meetings, some at the property and others at 
some offices. I also think it kept Mr R up to date with what  was happening  and made  
reasonable responses to his enquires  which was all part of it assisting  with the 
administration and performance of the insurance contract (which is the regulated  activity  this 
service can consider complaints about  in respect  of loss assessors).
But as a professional insurance expert  Morgan  Clark  knows or reasonably should know of 
the importance of policy  terms when considering what settlement an insurer  might be 
required to make in respect of a claim. It should also understand that a claim settlement is 
unlikely to be considered reasonable if it doesnt  allow for reinstating  all of the damage 
because that is what an insurer  is, in general  terms, usually required to do by the policy. 
Ref: DRN57776063From what  Morgan Clark has told us about some  of the negotiations it says it undertook  with 
the insurer, I think it does  understand  that. But Morgan Clark, despite having a fairly 
extensive file of papers, hasnt provided any evidence of the form, thrust or content of the 
negotiations that took place with the insurer. And whilst I know  that Morgan Clark thinks the 
house was in a poor state, Im not persuaded, from the photos Ive seen, that is the case, or 
at least not to such an extent as to justify a reduced  claim  settlement. So Im not satisfied 
that Morgan Clark most likely made reasonable and relevant challenges  which the insurer  
simply chose to disagree with and/or ignore whilst maintaining its offer.
I know Mrs R challenged  the basis of the settlement because she didnt think it was 
satisfactory. In doing so she asked that the specific terms  of her policy were taken into 
account. I also understand  that the insurer ultimately  accepted that the settlement it had 
offered hadnt  been fair or reasonable, at least in part because it wasnt made  in line with 
what the policy terms allowed for. I further  understand  that its amended settlement did 
include a base amount for protection works regarding  the damaged party wall.
So Im not satisfied that Morgan Clark did act to the best of its ability, given what I think  it 
knew, and should  reasonably have  known, to achieve a satisfactory claim settlement for 
Mrs R. Im also satisfied  that if it had made reasonable and relevant challenges the insurer 
would, most  likely, have revised its position in some way. Despite the work I accept Morgan 
Clark did, I can see why Mrs R was frustrated  with it in respect of the claim settlement. I also 
accept she was caused distress and inconvenience  because of delays that occurred to the 
claim as a result of this. Im satisfied that £1,000  compensation is fairly and reasonably  due.   
I know Mr R has concerns  about how Morgan Clark advertises  its service.  That isnt an issue  
Im able to consider. I also know he thinks its fees are unreasonable.  But this service doesnt 
usually get involved  with the prices  financial businesses  set for their services.  We see that 
as a matter of their commercial judgement, meaning as long as were satisfied that they treat 
all their similar customers the same, we wont interfere. And whilst Mr R may think  Morgan 
Clarks work  wasnt  up to the standard he could  reasonably expect, the remedy  for that is 
compensation, which Ive awarded. 
I know Mr R thinks  the amount of compensation isnt enough to properly penalise  Morgan 
Clark for what  it has done. But my awards  are not designed to punish financial businesses or 
make them change the way they practice. Nor is compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience meant to make  up for any financial loss that may have been suffered. Whilst 
I note Mr R is concerned that there is still work not accounted for by the amended  and 
agreed settlement  the insurer has paid, I havent seen proof of that or anything that gives  me 
cause to think that resulted from anything Morgan Clark did or failed  to do. Rather  my award 
accounts for distress and inconvenience caused by the failures of Morgan Clark that Ive 
identified here. In that respect, Im satisfied that £1,000 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due.
I know Mr R intends on putting his concerns regarding Morgan Clark before the courts.  
Mrs R is free to accept or reject my decision  as she wishes. If she accepts it within  the 
deadline given  (which Ive set to be eight-weeks from the date this decision is issued) then 
Morgan Clark  will be bound to pay the compensation awarded. But if Mrs R wishes to pursue  
the matter in the courts she may want to take legal advice before acting to either accept or 
reject my decision. 
Ref: DRN57776064my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Morgan Clark Ltd to pay Mrs R £1,000  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2019. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5777606