K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Aviva  Insurance Limited handled the claim he made after he 
had an accident  while on holiday abroad.
All references to Aviva  include their agents. 
background 
In late-2017 Mr D had an accident  while  riding  a moped on holiday  and broke his leg. He 
needed medical treatment and tried claiming  on a travel  insurance policy, but the insurer 
didnt respond.  Three days  after the accident Mr Ds father found some  paperwork which  
showed Mr D had another travel insurance policy  with Aviva  arranged in connection  with, 
and through the bank with which he held, his current account. So his father got in touch with 
Aviva the next day to make a claim.
The day after that Aviva  told Mr Ds father that Mr D wasnt  covered by the policy  because 
he didnt have a license in the UK to ride a 100cc moped. However, Aviva liaised with the 
bank that provided  the current account  and linked insurance policy to see if it would meet  his 
claim as a gesture  of goodwill.  The bank confirmed the following day that it would  do so and 
Aviva passed on this information to Mr Ds father.
Aviva subsequently handled  Mr Ds medical  expenses claim in accordance with the other 
policy terms. This included covering his medical  bills, some  of the costs his parents incurred 
after they flew out to be with him and paying for him to be repatriated  to the UK.
Mr D has said,  in summary, that:
Aviva  failed to support  him or progress his claim sufficiently in the four days  after the 
claim was made.  At that point he consented to having his leg amputated  above the knee. 
Had Aviva  acted  quicker then its possible amputation could have been avoided 
completely or limited to below the knee.
Aviva  failed to support  his parents adequately  and they ended up having to borrow  
money to pay for costs that shouldve been  met as part of the claim.
Aviva  have refused  to pay the claim he made latterly under the personal accident  section 
of the policy.
Our investigator thought that Aviva  had paid enough  in respect of Mr Ds claim and the 
£3,000 compensation itd offered Mr D (and has since paid) was more  than she would have 
awarded. But Mr D disagreed so the case has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Including that the relevant rules and 
industry guidance say Aviva has a responsibility  to:
handle claims promptly and fairly
Ref: DRN58066082provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
not unreasonably  reject a claim
Should Aviva have done anything more with regards to Mr Ds medical  expenses  claim?
Mr D ended up in a potentially life-threatening situation after his accident and had to make  
some difficult decisions  to safeguard  his health.  I understand this would have been an 
incredibly worrying and challenging  time for both him and his parents. But insurers  dont 
have to accept  every claim they receive, regardless of the severity of the situation  in which 
the policyholder  finds  themselves.  
When making my decision Ive first considered  the policy terms and conditions relating  to the 
medical expenses  cover afforded by Mr Ds policy. They say:
If you are injuredduring you trip, we will pay the following:
1.Emergency Treatment
a.Emergency medical treatment (including rescue  services to take you to 
hospital) outside  the UK.
2.Associated Expenses
a.Any reasonable extra charges for half-board accommodation (of a similar 
standard to the accommodation  you had booked for your trip) if it is medically  
necessary for you to stay after the date you were going  to return home.  We 
will also pay travel costs, which you have to pay to get back to your home  if 
you cannot use your return ticket
d.The cost of getting you home, if it is medically  necessary because you are 
seriously injured or fall seriously ill during your trip and you cannot use your 
return ticket.
If our Medical Emergency Assistance provider and the treating doctor  agree  that it is 
necessary, we will also pay for reasonable travel and accommodation  costs,  under items 
2a and 2d, for one relative or friend  who has to stay with you or travel to be with you.
3. Hospital Benefit  - £25 for each full 24 hours that you are in hospital, outside the UK 
receiving in-patient treatment following your injury  or illness  during  your trip.
But there is also a general  exclusion which says the policy wont cover Any claim for an 
incident occurring  during  the trip that results  fromyou using a scooter, moped or 
motorcycle as a rider or passenger on a machine125cc or under; unless you wear a crash  
helmet and, as a rider,  you are fully licensed to use such a vehicle in the UK. 
The moped  Mr D was riding at the time of the accident was 100cc and he wasnt  licensed in 
the UK to use such a vehicle. So I dont think if was unfair or unreasonable of Aviva to 
decline Mr Ds claim. Nor do I think was there any obligation for Aviva to investigate  if Mr Ds 
bank would agree  to pay the claim as a gesture  of goodwill. But, nonetheless, it did take 
steps promptly to explore  this possibility and stressed in its communication with the bank 
that its referral was urgent. The possibility the claim might be paid was also explained to 
Mr Ds father  during the call in which Aviva told him the claim wasnt covered,  through a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms. 
Ref: DRN58066083Aviva had no control over the length of time it took for the bank to decide whether  or not to 
pay the claim as a gesture of goodwill. But, importantly, I note that while awaiting the banks 
decision Aviva  continued trying to gather information about Mr Ds medical condition. That 
was proving somewhat difficult,  which is why Aviva authorised a local agent to try and help 
liaise with the hospital  which had not been  responding to requests for information.  And its 
internal notes say it did so because that at least helps the policyholder  and their family to 
understand the necessary  course  of action.  So I think Aviva was trying  to be supportive  
even though it didnt yet know  if the bank would cover the claim.
Mr Ds bank agreed to pay the claim as a gesture of goodwill some hours after Aviva 
escalated the request.  And this news was relayed  within an hour of receipt to Mr Ds father. I 
cant hold Aviva responsible for the time it took the bank to make a decision. But, in any 
event,, I actually dont  think this delayed anything because Aviva worked on gathering 
information about Mr Ds medical condition while waiting for the banks decision
Ive gone on to consider what happened  after the bank  agreed to pay the claim as a gesture 
of goodwill  in order to decide whether theres  anything more  Aviva could or should have 
done given Mr Ds concerns about this. With that in mind, I note, in particular that:
Mr D said Aviva shouldve arranged much  sooner for him to get a second opinion. But 
Aviva continued having  difficulty gathering information from the hospital  even after it 
employed a local agent. And from the emails  Ive seen and the calls Ive listened to 
between Aviva and Mr Ds father it seems they mightve been having difficulty  too. It also 
seems that the hospital had been giving him incorrect information by, for example, telling 
Mr D that Aviva hadnt authorised any payments or the transfer when, actually, the 
hospital had simply  been resisting Avivas attempts  to gather information about Mr Ds 
condition. The evidence suggests  to me that after Mr D asked for a second opinion, 
Aviva was making every attempt  to arrange  this. 
Mr Ds injury was severe and by the time his father first contacted Aviva,  hed already 
undergone several surgical procedures, he needed  ongoing medical attention  including  
regular debridement  and the possibility  of amputation had already been discussed.  The 
morning after the bank agreed  to cover the claim, Aviva received medical information 
from the hospital which indicated an above-the-knee amputation  was being considered 
but Mr Ds doctor  thought  they had a three-day window before this would likely be 
required. Unfortunately, Mr Ds condition worsened fairly rapidly and the doctor  ended  up 
recommending amputation that same day. And Mr D ultimately decided not to risk 
waiting for the transfer Aviva had arranged  for the following morning in order  to get him a 
second opinion.  But I dont think Aviva could have foreseen this and I think  it did what it 
could to arrange the transfer as soon as possible given  the associated  logistics. As Aviva  
explained to Mr D and his father, it needed  to find a hospital both with the required 
competence and that would accept Mr D and also arrange an air ambulance. These  
things take time and, in this particular case, I think Aviva did what it could to expedite  
matters. But even  if I were to conclude that Aviva should have done more  to secure an 
earlier transfer, in the circumstances, I cant  say this would have changed the medical 
outcome. Given the severity of his injury,  the associated infection and his rapid 
deterioration Mr D might well have still required an above-the-knee amputation.
Mr D has suggested Aviva  didnt do enough  generally to support him and his parents. 
But I can seen it exchanged a number of emails and had a number of phone  calls with 
Mr D and his parents in order  to ensure  everyone  was kept up-to-date  and involved with 
any decision-making that was needed. And there  are various  expressions  of thanks and 
Ref: DRN58066084praise from Mr D and his parents to Aviva throughout the emails and phone  calls. So it 
seems they were happy with Avivas support in the moment. Aviva  also arranged  
accommodation for Mr Ds parents and moved  them closer to the hospital  when  they 
requested this and when  such  accommodation became available.  And Aviva  paid for taxi 
fares and food,  in accordance with the policy terms and condition after Mr D submitted 
his claim for these costs.  I wouldnt  usually  expect an insurer to pay for such in advance 
and I cant see that Aviva  shouldve done  anything differently in this particular case. 
There is nothing which shows Mr D or his parents made Aviva aware they were having 
difficulty meeting their daily costs.
Once Mr Ds doctors deemed  him fit to fly, Aviva  promptly arranged his repatriation  to the 
UK by air ambulance.  His flight  home was interrupted due to bad weather  and he had to 
spend a night in another  hospital.  I understand Mr D was unhappy  with aspects of his 
treatment at the hospital and the ongoing  repatriation and Ive taken this into account 
when considering whether Aviva should pay any additional compensation. There were  
also some  concerns raised  about the way Aviva handled a subsequent  call with Mr Ds 
mother. I havent been given a recording of that call, but Avivas notes say it spoke with 
Mr Ds father  about this and their apology along with some  flowers for his mother  was 
accepted. 
Overall I consider Aviva handled Mr Ds claim compassionately and in a reasonable manner. 
It has already paid Mr D £3,000 compensation in recognition of anything it may have done 
wrong or could have  done better while handling the claim and the subsequent complaint.  
Having considered everything  thats  happened I think  that is a fair amount and I make  no 
further award.
Should Aviva pay Mr Ds personal accident claim?
Mr Ds policy  provides  personal accident cover,  so up to £30,000  might  be paid if he suffered 
an accidental injury while on holiday which led solely, directly  and independently  of any 
other cause  to yourloss of one or more limbs. But, the general exclusions Ive already 
mentioned also applied to the personal accident cover. So I dont think, by a strict  
interpretation of the policy, it was unreasonable for Aviva to have declined Mr Ds personal 
accident claim.
Mr D seems to accept  this but thinks his claim should be paid in the same way that his 
medical expenses  claim  was, as a gesture  of goodwill. Ive considered this carefully but dont 
think Aviva  is under  any obligation to cover this part of Mr Ds claim. 
I say that because:
When Mr Ds father  first got in touch with Aviva in relation to the claim he was solely  
seeking help with Mr Ds medical expenses claim. At that point, Mr D hadnt undergone 
the amputation  so there could have  been  no valid claim for the personal  accident benefit 
at that point.
Aviva  initially declined  the medical expenses  claim with reference to the general 
exclusion mentioned  above. Mr Ds bank subsequently agreed to pay the claim Mr D had 
made as a gesture of goodwill. There is no mention in any correspondence I can find that 
this offer extended  to covering any future  personal  accident claim that might be made. 
So I dont think Aviva mis-managed Mr Ds expectations in this respect.
Ref: DRN58066085After the bank agreed to cover the claim Mr D had made, Aviva handled things as it 
would any medical expenses claim. But that doesnt  mean Aviva, as the underwriter, 
should also accept  the personal  accident claim Mr D made towards the end of March 
2018, after hed been repatriated and was undergoing rehabilitation. 
As Ive already  said, the claim isnt covered  through a strict interpretation of the policy  terms 
and conditions. And I dont think Aviva  at any point told Mr D that a personal accident claim 
would be met. So I dont think it would be fair to tell Aviva to pay this part of Mr Ds claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5806608