K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Mr P says First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) mis-sold them the PPI. 
This policy only covered  Mr P. The policy was taken out with a hire purchase agreement  and 
the loan included an amount to pay for the PPI policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although a call recording is no longer  available,  Ive seen  a copy  of a call script that 
First Response has said would have been used during this sale. In my opinion,  in this 
case, if it was followed,  the script  outlines  that PPI is optional before getting consent  
to take it out. 
Ive also noted  that on the copy of the demands and needs document  that Ive seen, 
two other  insurances  were recommended but turned down by Mr and Mrs P. This 
again suggests that they would reasonably have been aware  that PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the credit they were agreeing to as they were aware that 
insurance could  be declined.
The credit agreement that Mr and Mrs P have  also signed refers to 
PPI being optional. Its listed as Optional Payment Protection Insurance.  On this 
agreement a tick has been placed next to the option for PPI and Mr and Mrs P have 
also signed separately to agree to take it out. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that First Response presented PPI as 
optional before Mr and Mrs P agreed to take it out.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information First Response gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. 
But the cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the premium,  the 
interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr and Mrs P would 
have reasonably understood how much the PPI would cost if they kept the policy  for 
its full term. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr P made  a successful claim 
he couldve  got back quite  a bit more than they paid for it. 
Ref: DRN53078012Mr and Mrs P wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if they 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if First Response thought about this when it 
recommended the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Mr and Mrs P. But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest they thought theyd repay the loan early. So I dont 
think this meant  the policy wasnt right for Mr P  or that better information about this 
wouldve stopped  them  buying  it.
I think that Mr P chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong, 
particularly as it could  have paid out for longer than his full sick pay likely would have 
lasted. Ive also considered what Mr P has said about his family  being able to help 
with repayments,  but circumstances  can change  and his family  may not have  been  in 
a position to help when  needed. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but these points dont change my decision. My 
decision also doesnt deal with the repossession of any goods  that Mr P has let us know 
about.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their policy  and whether First 
Response treated them unfairly.  
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ps policy  was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked  at how First Response has been working 
this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission 
was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed  to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think First Response treated them  unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI. 
I know that this wont  be the outcome that Mr P wanted, but I wish him all the best of luck in 
his future.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5307801