K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy  Society of Lloyds  
didnt pay him VAT for the repairs to his car or provide  funds for a hire car. Any reference to 
Lloyds in this decision includes its agents and underwriters.
background
Mr Ms car was damaged in a non-fault accident. The other  insurer  accepted  full liability for 
it, but an estimator and an independent engineer queried the extent of the damage. They  
thought it wasnt  all accident-related. Mr M agreed to be paid cash  in lieu of repairs  (a CIL 
payment). It excluded the disputed damage. Mr M complained to Lloyds, as the CIL 
payment also excluded VAT. Mr M didnt think that was fair. Lloyds said VAT wasnt  payable  
until the work had been done by a VAT-registered garage. 
Mr M then objected  to Lloyds not providing cash up front for a like-for-like hire car. Lloyds 
said the policy provided for a courtesy  car when a car damaged  in a non-fault  accident was 
being repaired by one of Lloyds approved repairers. It said should Mr Ms chosen  repairer  
charge for a courtesy  car, Lloyds would add the cost of it to the bill for the other insurer
Mr M gave  us a copy of a decision  made by this service requiring an insurer to pay VAT in 
advance of repairs. He also provided  online comments from a motor  claims advisor.  The 
advisor said insurers should include VAT in CIL settlements. Mr M said it was wrong for 
Lloyds to have  asked an engineer to review the damage with a view to reducing the repair 
costs. He didnt  think  that was right when an insurer other than Lloyds would be paying  for it. 
In addition, Mr M provided an example of the charge that would have been made by a hire 
firm for a like-for-like hire car had Mr M booked one. 
Lloyds noted  that three  months  after the accident Mr M hadnt  had the repairs carried out, so 
it said there was no VAT to pay. It said it would arrange hire when the car was booked in for 
repair  or would reimburse  Mr M for it. Shortly afterwards Lloyds said hire would not be 
reimbursed, as it wasnt covered on the policy. But it said it had referred  Mr M to a credit hire 
company that would put him in hire when his car was being repaired.  It also said it would try 
to recover from the other insurer any hire costs paid by Mr M.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She said VAT wasnt  payable if repairs  
hadnt been done. She noted  that Lloyds had agreed  to include replacement car costs  in the 
claim against the other insurer. So she thought  it had acted reasonably.  As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision in which I agreed  with the investigator that it was fair for 
Lloyds to include replacement car costs in the claim against the other insurer. I said that it 
had also referred Mr M to a credit  hire company that would have provided a car to him and 
charged the other insurer directly for it. So I thought  it had dealt with the issue  reasonably. 
I said insurers had a duty to manage  costs properly. So I didnt agree with Mr M that Lloyds 
shouldnt be concerned about inflated costs (including repair  and replacement car costs) just 
because the other insurer  would  be paying the bill. In terms of Lloyds paying VAT on repair  
costs, I said payment for the repair costs  in cash should include VAT, so Lloyds shouldnt  
defer the VAT payment.  
Ref: DRN52413262I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional decision. Mr M accepted it. Lloyds made 
several comments. It said the previous  decision from this service  that Mr M had relied  on 
wasnt in line with the circumstances of this case. Lloyds clarified the comments it had made  
previously about  paying  VAT. It repeated that it hadnt refused to pay the VAT. It said Mr M 
wouldnt have to get the car repaired, pay the VAT then claim  a refund. It said it would pay 
the VAT directly to the repairer. So Mr M wouldnt have to spend  any money or wait for 
reimbursement. Lloyds  said it was 18months since the accident. It said if the repairs  had 
been done - and cost less than expected - the VAT due would also be less.         
After considering all the facts again,  including Lloyds comments, I issued  a second 
provisional decision as follows:  
The only issue that remains disputed is the VAT payment. We dont think  its relevant 
whether consumers use the money they get in a CIL payment to have the car repaired or 
not. But Ive thought again about our approach to insurers paying the VAT element of a 
repair bill in advance. Although we think insurers should pay the VAT incurred on repairs, we 
think it should be paid in advance only in some  circumstances, rather than as a general rule.   
Some consumers may be unable to pay the VAT element  of the repair costs unless a 
business has included  it in a CIL settlement. Depending on the available evidence, we would 
usually think that justifies an insurer paying the VAT in advance   or paying the repairer 
direct. And there will be other circumstances where  we think thats fair, depending  on the 
particular facts of each case. 
Here, Mr M has relied on the findings  in one of our previous cases.  In that case, the 
consumer was keen  to have repair work rectified, in line with the agreed settlement sum. 
The ombudsman thought the consumer  had faced upset and frustration with the repairs 
process. So she thought it was fair for the insurer to pay the VAT in advance.  Had it not 
done so, that would have  meant more  inconvenience  for the consumer in claiming  it back.  
In this case, Mr M doesnt have to use the CIL payment to get the car repaired. Or he can 
have it repaired without  paying VAT.  But from what hes said, it seems  hes unlikely to be 
able to do that. Mr M hasnt said hed have difficulty paying the VAT and having it refunded 
later. But if he incurs VAT,  Lloyds has agreed  to pay it in a way that means Mr M wont have 
to part with any money. So he wont lose out if he doesnt get a VAT payment in advance.
I dont think insurers are required  to pay VAT in advance. I think it comes down to whats fair 
and reasonable in each  case. If Lloyds paid Mr M the VAT on the estimate in advance, hed 
profit if the repairs werent done. I dont  think that would be fair and reasonable. I think 
Lloyds has done  all it can to ensure  that Mr M wont be out of pocket whatever he decides to 
do. So I dont  think it should have to pay the VAT without an invoice.  
I know Mr M will be disappointed, and Im sorry to have raised his expectations.  But based 
on the details  Ive seen so far, and bearing in mind our general approach, I think  it would be 
unreasonable to uphold  the complaint against  Lloyds. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr M didnt comment. Lloyds 
accepted the decision  without further comment. 
Ref: DRN52413263my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither of the parties has made  any comment on my provisional findings, theres no 
reason to depart from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5241326