K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about J D Williams & Company Limited failing to make  him aware of an 
increase in interest rate on his catalogue  shopping account. 
background
In early August  2018 Mr M sent a cheque for £85 to J D Williams. Mr M noticed this cheque  
wasnt paid in until 10 August 2018. On 21 August 2018 Mr M complained  about  the late 
payment to his account and an increase in his interest rate. In October 2018 J D Williams  
sent a letter  to Mr M in relation to the late payment by cheque. It removed  the £12 
administration charge and advised  the late payment would be removed from his credit file. It 
also credited his account with a £20 payment to recognise the issues this had caused him. 
In November 2018 Mr M received a letter from J D Williams but this mentioned  Payment 
Protection Insurance. Because he hadnt received a satisfactory response he brought his 
complaint to this service.  Mr M said he was unhappy the cheque he sent wasnt  paid to his 
account in time. He was also unhappy with the increase in interest rate.  
J D Williams told this service a letter was sent out in early 2014  to make Mr M aware  of the 
interest rate change. And although  the APR was increased in 2015  the amount  of interest 
charged per month on the account remained the same. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. He said he was satisfied J D Williams  had sent out 
notification of the interest rate change  which was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  He said J D Williams are not fit for purpose 
and no advance notice  of the change  in interest  rate was sent out. He also says 
J D Williamss website shows an APR of 24.99%  with no interest  to be paid for a fixed 
period.
As no agreement could be reached  this complaint has now been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is more  likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Firstly Mr M believes this service should decide  that J D Williams is not fit for purpose. But 
as a complaint  handling  body its not this services role to decide J D Williams isnt fit for 
purpose. This would  be the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. This service  is here to 
resolve individual complaints  between consumers and regulated businesses. 
What I need to consider here is whether J D Williams  has treated Mr M unfairly and outside 
of its terms and conditions. Having done so, I dont think  it has. 
I can understand why Mr M was frustrated with the late payment of his cheque to the 
account. But Im satisfied J D Williams has resolved this issue fairly by offering to remove the 
late marker on his credit  file, removing  the £12 administration  charge and paying Mr M £20. 
Ref: DRN55396222The terms and conditions  of the account allow J D Williams to increase the interest  rate 
provided it gives at least 21 days notice in writing. I can see that the interest  rate on Mr Ms 
account was increased  in February 2014. And the annual percentage rate (APR) in 
July 2015. Although the APR did change in 2015 J D Williams says this didnt affect the 
monthly interest rate charged on the account.  And from the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied  it 
didnt. 
J D Williams provided  a screen shot which shows a letter was sent to Mr M telling  him about 
the interest rate increase in 2014.  Although  this doesnt mention the date the letter was sent 
Im satisfied - on balance  this was more likely than not sent out before the interest rate was 
increased. This is because there has only been one interest rate change which has affected  
the monthly payment on this account  since 2014.  So Im satisfied  again on balance  its in 
relation to the 2014 increase. Because of this Im unable to say that J D Williams has acted 
unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr M says he didnt receive the letter. But Im satisfied it was sent. Its 
possible that the letter went missing in the post but if thats the case, I cant fairly hold 
J D Williams responsible for the failings of the postal system. 
I note that Mr M continued to use his account  after the interest  rate and APR increase. Mr M 
says he would have  changed account  if he had been made aware. But I think its more than 
likely he would have seen  the interest and APR increase on his statements since 2014. And 
if he was unhappy  he could have decided to move his account  if he wished. 
Mr M has mentioned J D Williamss website shows a lower rate of interest which  includes a 
no interest rate period.  J D Williams says this is a standard rate of interest. And Mr Ms 
account isnt on the standard rate of interest as the interest on its accounts  can vary. I dont 
think its unfair for accounts  to have different interest  rates  as long as J D Williams  has made 
any increases in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. Nor is it unfair for 
businesses to allow for a period of no interest  to be charged on new accounts to attract new 
customers. 
I accept the way J D Williams handled  the complaint would have been frustrating but Im not 
persuaded it has caused Mr M any significant detriment or led to the wrong  outcome when 
considering the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  I cant say that J D Williams has treated 
Mr M unfairly. The terms and conditions provide for the rate of interest to be increased  and 
Im satisfied Mr M was sent the correct advance notice of the increase. Theres  no evidence 
to suggest that J D Williams has increased  the interest rate for a reason other than one of 
those set out in the terms and conditions. So Im not going  to ask J D Williams to take any 
further action. 
If Mr M is unhappy  with the interest rate on offer he is entitled to close his account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Ref: DRN55396223Mark Dobson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5539622