K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns a telephone  call made to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
background
Mr H called Aviva on 27 December 2018 to make  some enquiries about  the servicing agents 
associated with some policies he held. He asked  for one of the agents to be removed from 
Avivas records  and this to be confirmed in writing.  He also enquired about a second policy 
but was told the servicing agent  had already  been  removed. 
Aviva did provide the required  written confirmation  of the agent  being removed but 
unfortunately the letter incorrectly indicated  that the request for removal  had come  from the 
agent rather than Mr H. This prompted  him to complain.  Aviva  explained  what had happened 
and apologised  for the error. But Mr H didnt accept this and referred the matter to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He listened to a recording of the 
27 December telephone call and concluded  that it was apparent  Aviva had done  everything 
asked of it and also within the timeframes  it had given in the call. He acknowledged that the 
mistake had been made with the letter but he felt Avivas apology was sufficient  and that no 
financial compensation was warranted.  
As Mr H didnt  accept this, the matters been  referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, there is really very little I 
can usefully add to the investigators  conclusions and reasoning, with which  I entirely agree. 
I too have listened to the recording of the telephone  call. I consider that it was well-handled 
and the Aviva agent was pro-active in dealing with Mr H, offering to put in writing 
confirmation of his request. Im also conscious  that the time limit for receipt of the 
confirmation indicated  on the call was comfortably met.  
It was, of course, unfortunate that the confirmation letter was worded such  that it implied that 
the request for the agency removal had come  from the agency  rather than Mr H himself. But 
I think this slight oversight required nothing more than an apology from Aviva, which  its 
already given. This being so, I dont  theres  anything more for me to say on the matter  or to 
direct Aviva to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5243156