K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the compensation offered by AXA Insurance  UK Plc for delays in 
concluding the repair of his home after an escape of water.
background
Mr Hs home  was damaged after an escape  of water and required substantial  repair  work. It 
was identified that he and his family would need  to move out of the property temporarily to 
allow the work to be done. The policy included cover for alternative accommodation. Its 
apparent that there was a lengthy period of negotiation about suitable alternative 
accommodation with a number of properties being  considered. Mr Hs home  is a sizeable 
family house and he and his family  were  entitled to suitable alternative accommodation 
which as far as possible should match his normal living conditions. There were a number of 
considerations raised at the time including access to transport for journeys into London for 
work.
A dispute arose between Mr H and AXA during this time. A lump  sum payment was offered 
to cover alternative accommodation  and Mr H accepted it. But when Mr H then found 
accommodation at a far lower price, and it seems a far lower specification,  AXA withdrew the 
offer as being  too high.  This dispute  was the subject of a separate  complaint  which  led to a 
compensation payment but which isnt part of this complaint. I dont believe that Mr H 
sought, at any stage, to include  those earlier concerns within  this current  complaint but if he 
had then we wouldnt  have been  able to consider them as the previous complaint  was 
concluded a number of years ago and the allowed time has passed for referring the matter 
formally to this service.  
Eventually Mr H settled  on a property that was much different to his own,  being  a flat in a 
town centre not far from his own house.
Mr Hs current  complaint  is about  the delays in the conclusion  of the repairs at his home and 
the inconvenience that he and his family  have  suffered as a result, including remaining far 
longer than expected in temporary  accommodation.  He argued that the property  wasnt  
suitable for such a long period and that family life suffered substantially as a result.  That 
included the loss of use of their substantial property and its outdoor space, personal time 
spent overseeing the repair process  due to problems  with contractors work. And he was 
also unhappy at having to live in cramped  accommodation  for so long which  had a number 
of disadvantages  including the inability of his daughter to practice musical instruments which 
led to delays to her obtaining  qualifications.
Mr H complained to AXA.  In response  AXA agreed  with some of the concerns hed raised 
and offered £1500  as compensation,  specifically for problems experienced with contractors 
which had led to delays  in the work being finished. Mr H felt that wasnt enough and wanted 
£6000 to compensate  him and his family for its inconvenience. He complained  to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt that Mr H was justified in seeking higher 
compensation but felt that an additional £1300 was appropriate. AXA has disagreed  with that 
proposed outcome so the case  has been passed  to me to consider.
Ref: DRN51324882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I intend to uphold  this complaint and 
agree with the investigators position.
I will immediately  confirm that this complaint  excludes  the issues  previously dealt with 
between Mr H and AXA when he complained about the process for finding  him alternative 
accommodation and the offer was made and withdrawn. That complaint has been 
concluded. 
But its important to acknowledge  it and understand its place  in dealing with this dispute. 
Because when  AXA objected to the investigators  proposed compensation its response 
focussed heavily  on the choice of property made  by Mr H at the outset. It seems  to argue 
that as he chose a smaller property that the negative impacts of living there are his own 
responsibility. 
The fundamental issue at the heart  of this current complaint is the delay to the repair  of Mr 
Hs home and the impacts  that this has had on him and his family. And its apparent that 
there were substantial and avoidable delays throughout much of the time that Mr H remained 
in temporary accommodation. I see that the original  estimate for being out of his home was 
between 4 and 6 months. In the end it was 13 months before his family were able to return to 
their home. Mr H says that he had to compromise on the choice of property at the outset and 
in any event was prepared to put up with some deficiencies for what  was supposed to be a 
short period  of time.
AXA has also argued that Mr H didnt ask to be moved to larger accommodation during that 
delay and again suggests that it is therefore  his responsibility that he and his family  were in 
accommodation which he argues was unsuitable, or at least  which he explains presented 
them with disadvantages.
I think AXA misses the key issue here. That is that a policy holder was substantially  
disadvantaged due to delays of many months to work being carried out under the terms of 
his insurance policy.  Ive seen no real challenge to the cause of those delays which Mr H 
puts down substantially to the poor work of contractors, including having to change  
contractors as well as a delay of many  weeks  when they werent paid and so left the job.
Mr H has complained about a number of issues which presented  him with stress and 
inconvenience, including having to take substantial amounts of personal time to try to 
progress the work.  While he has also spoken about the suitability of the property that is only 
one facet, although a substantial one, of the complaint. And he points out that when the 
property was selected, again after much  dispute between the parties, it was on the basis  of a 
relatively short stay.  That period more  than doubled,  and as he says included  a whole 
Summer of changed plans and uncertainty.
I think its important to reflect on the real impacts  on peoples lives of being kept out of their 
home. Its not the insurers  fault that a claim arose and those claims will always cause 
inconvenience to a policy holder. I say that while  acknowledging the legal implications 
implicit under what is an indemnity insurance  policy, the principle of which  is to hold the 
insured harmless and for the insurer to make  good any losses suffered. 
Ref: DRN51324883In practice, this service  accepts that the claim will necessitate inconvenience  on the part of 
the insured and we only seek to compensate for the inconvenience that the insurer could 
have avoided if the claim had been handled efficiently. 
But the reality here is of a policy holder and his family being kept out of their home  for over a 
year. Time during  which normal  life has to be substantially put on hold along with managing  
the stresses of an ongoing, and in this case failing, process of repair.  A year when in this 
case Mr H wasnt  able to have guests  to his family home, or enjoy his garden and facilities. 
When travelling to work was less convenient  and when personal possessions  had to be 
fetched from storage  when needed. And also when family time such  as holidays had to be 
put on hold and lots of personal time consumed  by the ongoing  repairs. The fact that Mr H 
agreed to that temporary property for 4 to 6 months, or that he didnt ask to be moved after 
that time,  seems to me to be irrelevant. I dont know his reasons for not asking to be moved 
and I dont think theyre important to this dispute. But I can only reflect that it might be less 
than attractive to consider finding  and moving to another  property when  a family is waiting 
for problems  repairing  their home to be resolved in a lengthy drawn out process.  
Im satisfied that AXA is responsible for the delays to progressing this claim, and it accepts 
this to some  extent and has sought  to pay what it thinks is reasonable compensation of 
£1500. I think  that isnt enough for the substantial inconvenience experienced in this case 
and agree with the investigator  that a total compensation payment of £2800 is appropriate. 
This is less than half of what Mr H sought  but I think fairly reflects  the additional 
inconvenience and is in line with the levels  of awards which  we make at this service.
At the time of the investigator issuing her view it seems that there were some remaining 
snagging issues at the property. On those issues I can only direct AXA to cooperate with any 
remaining concerns  which Mr H has about the work as I would expect it to do in resolving 
any insurance repair claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay additional compensation of 
£1300 to the £1500 already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5132488