K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained to us that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1993.  
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Firstly, Ive looked at the optionality  of the policy. In this case, the MPPI wasnt  optional;  the 
policy was a condition  of taking a particular  fixed rate mortgage.  A financial business isnt 
precluded from making payment protection insurance a condition  of credit  or a preferential  
rate of credit. However it is a requirement that the business  make it clear that the policy  isnt 
optional.
 
Ms B complained to us that the optionality  of the MPPI  wasnt made clear to her. But in this 
case the obligation on Nationwide was to make it clear that the MPPI was compulsory. 
Having considered the paperwork  from the time of the sale, I can see that Ms B was written 
to and was told that the MPPI  was compulsory for the fixed rate term. I think  its most likely 
that, that having read this, Ms B would  have understood that the policy wasnt optional. So I 
wont be upholding the complaint on this basis.
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the MPPI to Ms B, so it wasnt required to make  sure 
that it was suitable for her. But it was required to give her information  that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could  make  the decision for herself about whether or not to take 
the MPPI.  
Ive considered the possibility that Nationwide didnt  give Ms B clear  enough  information  
about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions and restrictions  of the policy.  Ms B told us that due 
to her employer benefits, which would have  paid out for between three and six months, the 
MPPI was cover  she didnt need.  
But the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months  and the cost was comparable to the 
cost of other,  similar policies available at the time.  Its also possible Nationwide didnt point 
out the main things  the policy didnt cover. But given her circumstances, Ms B wouldnt have 
been affected by any of those things. On balance, I dont think having better information 
Ref: DRN56241152would have dissuaded her from buying the PPI. So overall, Ive concluded this policy wasnt  
mis-sold. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms B, but Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5624115