K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about his treatment by Bank  of Scotland  plc (the bank) when  it said 
his account with the bank  had received a fraudulent payment. 
background
The bank wrote to Mr H in those terms in early  July 2018. It said it would be closing the 
account (or withdrawing facilities) 65 days from the date of the letter.  Meanwhile the 
account could  only receive regular credits  like wages and benefits. 
Mr H protested that the suspect payment was legitimate. Following contact with the paying 
bank, in part via Mr H himself, Bank  of Scotland accepted after a while that the payment 
wasnt fraudulent. Meanwhile  Mr H had decided to move his custom to another bank.
Mr H complained about how the bank  had handled  the whole matter. He said the unfounded 
allegation of fraud had had the potential of destroying his professional  career.  He said the 
bank hadnt given him enough help to clear  up the mistake.  He said hed suffered huge  
distress and inconvenience, including defamation of character.
The bank didnt  accept  it had done  anything wrong.  It said it had had the right and 
responsibility to decide  if the payment was fraudulent and to take the action it had taken. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. He concluded the bank hadnt followed its own 
procedures properly. He said the bank shouldnt,  in the circumstances, have treated the 
payment as fraudulent and have decided  to close the account, but it should instead have 
treated the payment as suspicious  and investigated it, including asking Mr H to explain the 
transaction. 
The adjudicator said, however, that the account  would have been  blocked for a time in any 
case, even if the bank  had followed proper procedures. 
The adjudicator didnt accept Mr H had been  defamed  greater  harm  to Mr H had been 
averted because the payment wasnt in the end reported via CIFAS  as fraudulent. 
The adjudicator recommended the bank should  pay Mr H £300 compensation for distress  
and inconvenience  and should  issue a written  apology to him.
The bank accepted this recommendation. Mr H did not. He said £300 was far too little 
compensation. He also thought it would do little to encourage the bank to behave better in 
the future.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as the adjudicator and for similar reasons.
I wouldnt want Mr H to think I was minimising what happened to him or the worry, stress and 
inconvenience he suffered. Ive approached his case by asking:
Ref: DRN55438012What did the bank do wrong?
What harm did this cause to Mr H which was reasonably foreseeable as likely  to be 
caused to someone in Mr Hs position?
What is the fair compensation/redress for that harm?
What did the bank do wrong?
The bank was entitled to block Mr Hs account while it investigated a suspicious payment. 
But it shouldnt in the circumstances have written  to Mr H to say the payment was fraudulent 
or that it was closing  his account, without  more. 
The bank could  also have  done more to facilitate Mr Hs access  to the non-suspect  funds in 
the account before the question of the payment was cleared up. 
As far as I can tell from the evidence,  the first time Mr H became aware of CIFAS from the 
bank and the potential for a registration  to be made  about him, was in the banks final 
response, which post-dated the relevant events. 
On the whole, I think the bank took reasonable steps to find out from the paying bank what 
grounds it had for regarding the payment as fraudulent  (or suspicious).  As far as I can tell, 
the delay in this respect  largely arose from the paying  banks side,  not from Bank  of 
Scotland. 
In the circumstances, it doesnt seem unreasonable that the bank  suggested to Mr H he 
should try and contact  the paying banks  customer,  to expedite the investigation. 
What reasonably foreseeable harm was caused?
Even if Mr H wasnt aware of CIFAS, he was still led to think  the bank had established a 
fraudulent transaction on his account, which if true could have had very serious 
consequences for him. This caused him a considerable  amount of worry and stress. 
While I think Mr H would have suffered worry and inconvenience because  of the blocking of 
the account even if the bank had followed its procedures correctly, I conclude  he would have 
suffered less inconvenience and concern if the bank had helped  him more to gain access  to 
the funds in the account which werent suspect. 
What is fair compensation?
The purpose of our awards of compensation isnt to punish  or fine the financial business or 
to compensate the consumer by reference to what the consumer would charge for their own 
professional time. Instead we aim to compensate the consumer for the wrong theyve 
suffered.
Mr H regards £300 as falling woefully short of what he should receive as compensation from 
the bank, and he is of course entitled  to his opinion. However, £300 is a sizeable award in 
terms of what  the Financial Ombudsman  Service  awards for distress and inconvenience.  Ive 
also borne  in mind  that Mr H would have suffered, as Ive concluded, a measure of worry 
and inconvenience  even if the bank  had done nothing wrong. 
In terms of the apology,  I dont normally  compel an apology to be made  as it seems to me 
that an apology,  if its to be sincerely meant, should be freely given. However, in this case  
Ref: DRN55438013the bank has said its happy to make  the apology that the adjudicator has recommended  
should be made. Its for the bank to decide who signs the apology  it will be the bank thats 
apologising, as is right, not any particular individual within the bank. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  and require Bank of Scotland  plc to pay him £300. The bank 
should also issue a written apology to Mr H. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5543801