K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim he made following 
a break  in at his home. AXA said it believes part of the claim was fraudulent. Mr F is 
represented by a third party.
background
Mr Fs house  was broken  into and he made  a claim for damage  to his house  and loss of 
contents, money and personal possessions including jewellery. AXA declined  the entire 
claim because  it was concerned Mr Fs claim for jewellery was fraudulent. This was because  
AXA felt Mr F had changed his story about where  the jewellery had been kept in an attempt 
to get this part of the claim paid. 
Mr F withdrew his claim for the jewellery, but AXA still refused to consider the other  parts of 
his claim.  It said the policy terms allow it to decline  to deal with an entire claim where it 
believes any part of the claim is fraudulent.
   
Mr F referred his complaint to our service,  but our investigator didnt think  it should  be 
upheld. In summary, he didnt feel AXA had acted  unreasonably in declining to deal with the 
entire the claim. Mr F remained unhappy with this and asked  for the complaint to be passed  
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
A fraudulent claim can arise where  a policyholders  loss wouldnt have been covered by the 
policy. So the policyholder gives false representations about how they suffered a loss by 
saying it happened  in a way that would be covered. 
In relation to cases of fraudulent claims,  AXAs policy wording  states:
3) Fraudulent Claims  If you, or anyone acting on your behalf, make a claim knowing it to 
be false or fraudulent  in amount or in any other respect, this policy will be invalid and any 
claims will not be paid. You may also be liable  to criminal prosecution.
The wording  here is clear and it means that if AXA can show  that any part of a claim is 
fraudulent or false it can rely on this policy wording to turn down the entire claim.
AXA has provided transcripts of the first two telephone conversations  that took place after 
the break in. During the first call, Mr F gave AXA permission to speak  to his wife, Mrs B. 
When asked by AXA to explain  more about  where the jewellery had been  kept,  Mrs B said it 
had been hidden in bags  inside other  bags in the corner of the loft. There was no mention of 
the jewellery being kept in a safe during this call. 
The next day AXA spoke  to Mrs Bs daughter, Miss F. When asked by AXA where the 
jewellery had been  kept,  Miss F said she had put it in lots and lots of bags at the bottom of a 
suitcase in her loft. She also explained that when she went into the room after the break  in 
she saw the suitcase was open. 
Ref: DRN57110792Later in the call, AXA explained that if the jewellery  hadnt been in a locked safe, it may not 
be something it could  consider. Miss F responded by saying that the jewellery had been in a 
safe hidden in the loft.
I can see how this looked to AXA like Miss F had changed  her explanation so that the theft 
of the jewellery  would be covered by the policy.
 
I also have to bear in mind that both Mrs B and Miss F had gone into a significant amount of 
detail when originally  describing where  the jewellery had been kept. Miss B had also added  
the jewellery had been  kept in a suitcase that had been left open  after the theft.  However, 
there was no mention  of any safe until this was raised by AXA.  Given  the detail originally 
provided, I can see how AXA would  have expected the safe to have  been  mentioned  earlier 
than it was if thats where the jewellery was kept.  
Both Mrs B and Miss F have said they were in shock at the time.  Miss F has also said she 
was confused and made  mistakes. This included her saying the jewellery  had been  in a 
suitcase, speaking as Mrs B and failing to relay the exact statement her farther had asked 
her to. 
Whilst I can appreciate this was a very difficult time for everyone involved,  Im not satisfied 
this sufficiently accounts for the change in story  and the safe being omitted from both Mrs B 
and Miss Fs original descriptions  of where  the jewellery had been kept. Im also concerned 
that Miss F has admitted to pretending to be Mrs B when speaking to AXA.  
Mr Fs representative  has also said there had been  language difficulties. However,  given the 
amount of detail both Mrs B and Miss F were able to give to AXA, I dont  think  this accounts  
for the safe not being mentioned earlier.  
Further, I cant see that Mr F has been  able to provide AXA with evidence to show a safe 
existed.What I have to consider  is whether  or not AXA acted reasonably when it declined to deal 
with the entire claim based on the evidence.  I think that AXA has shown that it had valid 
concerns over the claim  for the jewellery in the sense that the claim circumstances were 
deliberately changed in order  to meet the cover provided by the policy,  and that Mr F hasnt 
been able to resolve those concerns.
I dont doubt Mr F suffered loss as a result of the break in and I acknowledge this must  have  
been a very difficult  time for him and his family.  However, fraud on one part of the claim 
taints the whole claim,  no matter how valid the rest of the claim might  be. Because of this, I 
dont think AXA has acted  unreasonably  by refusing to deal with Mr Fs entire claim.
Ref: DRN57110793my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5711079