K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In June 2017 Mr S acquired a used car via a 15 month hire purchase  agreement. The car 
was around 10 years  old and had a mileage of approximately 74,000.
Mr S says that he discovered  faults  with the car when  it was first collected and so in July 
2017 the car was booked in for an inspection and repairs. Repairs were carried out in 
relation to the cars diesel  particulate filter (DPF). 
However in August 2017 Mr S reported  to the dealership that the DPF and injector  warning 
light was illuminated.  The dealership asked  Mr S to get a mechanics report on the car as the 
lights hadnt been on when theyd had the car.  
Mr S had the car inspected at a garage which found a number of issues with the car which 
included a possible issue of the DPF being  fitted  without re-sensitisation  and leaks from the 
sump and gearbox.
The car went in for repairs in September 2017  but a short time after it was returned to Mr S 
the DPF warning light illuminated  again.  He complained to Blue Motor. Blue Motor asked him 
to take the car to a local garage for a diagnostic report and said it would speak with the 
dealer to discuss the matter. 
Blue Motor  also arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. The 
engineer reported that the codes  hadnt  been reset following  the new DPF being fitted. He 
also reported on the leaks from the sump  and gearbox and said he found an issue with a 
loose heat shield and leakage from the cooling  system. The engineer concluded that on the 
balance of probabilities these issues had been present at the point of sale. 
A swap of the car was considered but Blue Motor said Mr S preferred to keep  the car and 
have it repaired.  It was agreed  after some  further  inspections that the car would be repaired 
and Mr S would  cover  any items that had arisen from wear and tear. The dealership paid 
£300 towards the repairs for the various leaks and to the DPF. These repairs  were carried  
out in October  2017.
In November 2017 Blue Motor issued Mr S with a final response letter  to his complaint. It 
said that as the car had faults it would uphold his complaint and the car would be repaired. It 
said it would  now close the complaint.  Mr S replied to Blue Motor that he wasnt  happy with 
its response and he was concerned the resetting of the DPF may not fix the issues with the 
car.
In November 2017 further repairs were  carried out and paid for by Blue Motor.  
In February 2018  the car was inspected by another garage and a number of other  issues 
were found  with the car including EGR valve and the glow plugs needing to be replaced.
Ref: DRN54671002In March 2018 Mr S made a new complaint to Blue Motor that despite the repairs the car had 
new issues which were related to the past faults.  Blue Motor  requested  evidence  that these 
issues had been  there at the point of sale.
Mr S also said he thought the car was a potential health hazard due to the smell of fumes  
and smoke.  He said the warning lights were illuminated on the dashboard.
In April 2018 Blue Motor  arranged  for the car to be inspected  for a second time by an 
independent engineer. The engineer concluded that on the balance  of probabilities the 
issues with the EGR  and glow plugs wouldve been  present at the point of sale.  
In May 2018  Mr S obtained  quotes  for the repairs and in June 2018  repairs  to the car were  
carried out.
However, in June 2018 a fault was then found with the inter cooler that had been caused by 
impact damage.  Blue Motor contacted the independent engineer to see if this had been 
undetected at the inspection.
In the meantime Mr S contacted the dealer as despite the repairs the car continued to have 
fumes and smoke. He also said the warning lights were still illuminated. The dealer said the 
smoking could be due to the problem with the inter cooler. Mr S obtained a quote for the 
repairs to the inter cooler.
In July 2018 Mr S complained to Blue Motor about the length of time it was taking to get the 
car repaired and the ongoing issues he was experiencing with it. Blue Motor offered  Mr S a 
goodwill gesture of £100.
Mr S had complained  to this service back in June  2018.  Mr S said he had incurred a loss 
over having  to deal with issues with the car. He asked for compensation and following the 
various repairs he also asked for the car to be further inspected as he didnt believe the 
repairs had fixed the issues. He remained concerned about the cars reliability and quality.
A further  inspection of the car was arranged for January 2019 by another independent  
engineer. This engineer found  issues with the cars gaskets. However the engineer  
concluded that as the car had passed an MOT in July 2018 and had been driven for around 
15,750 miles since  purchase  these  werent issues that wouldve been  present at the point of 
sale.
Our adjudicator who had been dealing with Mr Ss complaint recommended  that Mr Ss 
complaint should  be upheld  and that he should  now be able to reject the car, have his 
deposit repaid  with interest and receive £500  as compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused him. 
She said despite the latest independent  engineers  report  she thought the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. There had been numerous repairs  over the past 18 
months which had started shortly  after Mr S had acquired the car. And these repairs hadnt 
fully fixed the issues  and the adjudicator said further  repairs  may still not work and could 
have a negative  impact on Mr Ss situation.
Blue Motor  didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said it accepted the car had been 
subjected to a number of attempted repairs but the report  from the final independent  
engineer had stated the car was of an expected condition considering the age and mileage.  
Ref: DRN54671003Blue Motor  said this meant the repairs had been successful. It agreed that the difficulties in 
diagnosing and repairing the car wouldve caused Mr S distress and inconvenience although 
it disputed its actions  had been the sole cause of the delays. Blue Motor  said a fair outcome 
was for Mr S to keep the car but receive the £500 compensation.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) the car must be of satisfactory quality, fit 
for purpose  and as described. When deciding whether a used car is of satisfactory  quality 
account needs to be taken of its age and mileage. Here the car was around 10 years old and 
had a mileage  of 74,000 so that would mean  that it would be expected that over time issues 
with parts  becoming  worn and needing repair or replacement would arise.
Although wear and tear issues with the car wouldve been  expected  over time Ive seen that 
problems with this car came to light within a short period of Mr S acquiring it. And Ive also 
seen that the issues  with the car and the number  of repairs were agreed by Blue Motor.  So I 
think that means its not disputed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point  of sale.
However, if faults with a car come  to light 30 days after the car comes into a consumers 
possession then the retailer has an opportunity to fix the fault. And Blue Motor  says that 
looking at the third independent engineers  report the car was fixed and any new faults have 
arisen from use and so Mr S isnt now entitled  to reject it.
Ive seen from the evidence that Mr S has been  able to have just short of the average use of 
the car (hes driven just under the equivalent of 1000 miles per month) and that the issues 
with the gaskets didnt come  to light until January 2019. But prior to that date a number of 
faults have been found with car including leaks, fumes and smoking. 
Ive seen that the third independent  engineer  also noted odours from the engine, signs of an 
engine oil leak, a leak from the turbocharger  and the cooling system expansion bottle 
exhibiting signs of excessive pressure. The car was noted to smoke when test driven. The 
engineers opinion is that from these  symptoms the engine appears to be subjected to an 
intermittent internal head gasket failure. The engineer goes on to say that as the car passed 
an MOT in July 2018  and has been driven  a number of miles this issue cant  have  been  
developing or present  at the point  of sale. He says symptoms wouldve shown up before now 
and that during the MOT as the engines temperatures are monitored  an issue wouldve 
been found. He concludes  that car wouldve  been  of satisfactory quality  at the point  of sale.
However its unclear  to me what information this engineer had received in respect of the 
earlier repairs. He doesnt address  what impact  these  earlier repairs mightve  had on the 
running of the car or whether there was any link to an intermittent issue with the head 
gasket. Ive noted that the complaints Mr S made about the car have been consistent since 
he acquired it. The car doesnt  appear to have  exhibited  completely new symptoms  or 
problems. 
Ive also seen that originally the car failed  its MOT  in July 2018 and work had to be carried 
out on the turbo to lower emissions before it then passed.
Ref: DRN54671004I think that looking at the number  of problems and attempted repairs this car has been  
subjected to since Mr S acquired  it that notwithstanding its age and mileage most people  
would consider it wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  I think the past repairs were unsuccessful  
as the issues  with smoking  and warning lights being  illuminated remain. 
So Im not satisfied the third independent  engineers  report  establishes that the past repairs  
were successful even though  it provides  another opinion as to why the car isnt running 
correctly. I think  Mr S has repeatedly raised  the faults noted in that third report  for many  
months before January  2019. So I think its likely  this car still has issues  with faults it had at 
the point of sale and isnt of satisfactory quality.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr S to now reject the car. As he has had use of it I 
wouldnt ask Blue Motor to repay him the cost of the car but I agree with our adjudicator  that 
it would  be fair for him to be reimbursed  the amount of his original deposit together with 
interest. I also think that £500  compensation is fair to address the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S over this matter. And Im upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Im asking Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
Reimburse Mr S his deposit  of £1,995  plus interest at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5467100