K821x#15Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Halifax  irresponsibly provided him with an overdraft and a loan in 
2017. He says that Halifax  ought  to have realised  he was a gambler and thats  what  he 
would be using the funds advanced  for.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 16 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed having received my decision. But it didnt provide anything 
for me to think about or ask for any additional  time to do so. 
Mr L queried whether  my decision only covered  the overdrafts he was provided  with in 2017.  
He also queried  whether  I was only telling Halifax to refund the interest  he paid on the loan 
while it was with Halifax and before  he refinanced it with another  lender.  
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr Ls complaint in my provisional decision. 
Mr L has queried the scope of my provisional decision. I can confirm that Mr Ls initial  
complaint to Halifax was about the overdraft  and loan he was provided with in 2017. As this 
is the case, my decision only looked at whether it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to have 
provided Mr L with an overdraft with an initial limit of £500 in April 2017  and the subsequent 
decisions to increase the limit to £1,000.00 in May 2017, £1,500.00  in July 2017  and 
£3,000.00 in October 2017. 
I am aware  that Mr L had an overdraft with Halifax before this. But as this didnt form part of 
his initial  complaint to Halifax, I wasnt able to look into this. Mr L needs to complain to 
Halifax in the first instance  should he be unhappy with its earlier decision to provide him with 
an overdraft. And depending on the circumstances, Mr L may then be able to refer the 
matter to us should  he be unhappy with Halifaxs response.
I now turn to Mr Ls comments regarding the compensation on the loan I concluded he 
shouldnt have been provided with in my provisional  decision. I do think  that Halifax  only 
needs to refund any interest and charges that it applied to Mr Ls account.  As far as Im 
concerned Mr Ls decision  to refinance with another provider was an intervening  act, which  
limited Halifaxs responsibility here.  
If Mr L is unhappy with the later lenders decision to lend to him, bearing in mind his 
circumstances at the time, then this is a matter  hell need to take up with that lender. But Im 
satisfied that Mr L refinancing his loan, ended Halifaxs responsibility  for its decision to lend 
to his. And as this is the case,  Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for it to only refund 
the interest it charged Mr L while his loan was with Halifax.   
Ref: DRN54476422Overall and having considered Mr Ls further points,  Ive not been persuaded to alter the 
conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision of 16 February  2021.  So Im still 
partially upholding Mr Ls complaint and directing Halifax to put things right in the way Ive 
set out below. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr L
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Ls complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Overdraft
Rework Mr Ls overdraft balance to ensure that from July 2017 onwards  interest  
is only charged on the first £1,000.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further 
credit limit increases  should have been  provided. Any additional fees levied 
should also be removed; and
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr L to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ls credit  
file, it should backdate  this to October  2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr L along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Ls credit file. 
Loan
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ls loan from the outset. 
The payments  Mr L has made  should be deducted from the £2,000.00 he was 
originally lent. Halifax  should treat any payments made if and when the £2,000.00 
has been cleared  as overpayments. And any overpayments  should  be refunded 
to Mr L along  with 8% simple interest  ;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ls credit  file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Should an outstanding balance (or balances)  remain on the accounts  in question after all 
adjustments have  been made  Halifax can use any compensation due to Mr L to reduce what  
he owes. Id also remind Halifax of its obligation to exercise forbearance should outstanding 
balances remain after all adjustments have been made to Mr Ls accounts  and its the case  
that he is experiencing financial  difficulty.
Ref: DRN54476423My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 16 February 2021, Im 
upholding Mr Ls complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN54476424COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Halifax irresponsibly  provided him with an overdraft  and a loan in 2017. He 
says that Halifax ought to have realised he was a gambler and thats what he would be using  the 
funds advanced for.
Background
Halifax provided Mr L with an overdraft  with an initial  limit of £500 in April 2017. This limit was 
increased to £1,000.00  in May 2017,  £1,500.00 in July 2017 and £3,000.00 in October  2017.  Halifax 
also provided  Mr L with a loan for £2,000.00 in October 2017. The loan had an APR of 28.7% and 
was to be repaid  in 36 instalments of £80.05.
In November 2017, prompted  by Halifaxs changes to its overdraft  pricing structure, Mr L complained 
that Halifax  irresponsibly lent to him. Halifax  didnt  think that it had done anything wrong and so didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think that Halifax  had done anything  
wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So he didnt  recommend the complaint  be upheld. Mr L disagreed  with 
our investigator and asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules,  guidance and good industry practice  - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means  is
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr L would be 
able to repay  what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets out what we 
typically think  about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally,  we think  
its reasonable  for a lenders  checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers 
and what it does  to verify it  in the early  stages  of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example,  a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer  the lending  relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer  irresponsibly.
Ive kept this all in mind  when having looked at Mr Ls complaint and having done so Im partially 
upholding it.
Halifaxs initial  decision to provide an overdraft for £500 and then increase the limit to £1000
Halifax appears to be arguing that it agreed to these applications after Mr L provided  details of his 
monthly income of £2,500.00.  It says this showed Mr L would be able to comfortably to repay this 
amount. And, in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about  what  Mr L and Halifax have said. The first thing for me to say is that this 
appears to be Mr Ls first credit with Halifax for some  time. And while I do have some  concerns that 
Halifaxs records appear to show that Mr L complained that he shouldnt have been provided with an 
Ref: DRN54476425overdraft in December  2012, this was more than four years earlier. And I dont think  that this in itself 
means Halifax shouldnt have considered any applications from Mr L.
Equally while I also think that there  was a pattern  of gambling developing after Mr L was initially 
provided with the overdraft, I dont think that this can reasonably be described as an established 
pattern by this stage. Especially bearing in mind the limit increase was only a matter of weeks after 
the initial  decision to provide  the overdraft in the first place.
As this is the case and bearing in mind  what it did know about Mr L at that stage, I dont think that it 
was unfair for Halifax to conclude that Mr L would  be able to sustainably  repay  £500 and £1000.00  
within a reasonable period  of time. So Im satisfied Halifax didnt  treat Mr L unfairly when it initially 
gave him an overdraft or when it increased the limit to £1,000.00.
Halifaxs decisions  to increase Mr Ls overdraft limit to £1,500.00 and £3,000.00 and then also provide 
a loan for £2,000.00
Ive already explained that while Im not intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint about the initial decision 
to provide the overdraft and the first limit increase, I am concerned that there was a developing 
pattern of Mr L using his overdraft to gamble. And I think that by the by the time Mr Ls overdraft  limit 
was increased  to £1,500.00 in July 2017 it was evident that this emerging pattern I was concerned 
about had become established.
A cursory  look at Mr Ls statements show that he was gambling significant  sums and this had been 
happening since the overdraft was first provided. Indeed, I note that Halifaxs records indicate that 
while Mr L was within his limit at the time he applied  for the increases in question, he was already 
likely to exceed his existing limit because  of his account activity. In these circumstances, it ought  to 
have been apparent that Mr L was struggling  to manage what  he already owed and was therefore  
unlikely to have been able to repay any additional credit without  undue difficulty or borrowing  further. 
Bearing this in mind,  Im currently minded to find that Halifax shouldnt have increased Mr Ls 
overdraft limit in July 2017 and October 2017 and shouldnt have provided him with a loan in October 
2017 either. Its decision to provide additional credit in these circumstances meant that it increased Mr 
Ls indebtedness in a way that it ought  to have realised was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful.  
As this is the case, I think  that Halifax treated Mr L unfairly when it increased  his overdraft  limit to 
£1,500.00 and £3000.00 and provided  him with a loan for £2000.00. Mr L ended  up having to pay 
additional interest  and charges on credit he shouldnt  have been provided with in the first place. So 
Im intending  to find that he lost out because  of what Halifax did wrong and it needs to put things right.
Fair compensation   what I think Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Having thought about everything,  Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Overdraft
Rework Mr Ls overdraft balance to ensure  that from July 2017 onwards interest is only 
charged on the first £1,000.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have  been provided.  Any additional  fees levied  should  also be removed;  
AND
If an outstanding balance remains  on the overdraft  once these adjustments have  been 
made Halifax should contact  Mr L to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate  to record negative information on Mr Ls credit  file, it should 
backdate this to October 2017.
Ref: DRN54476426OR
If the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges  results  in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Mr L along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date they were  made  
(if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains  after all 
adjustments have been made, then Halifax  should  remove  any adverse  information from 
Mr Ls credit file. 
Loan
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ls loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr L has made should be deducted  from the £2,000.00 he was originally lent. 
Halifax should  treat any payments made if and when  the £2,000.00  has been cleared as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr L along with 8% simple 
interest ;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ls credit file as a result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax  to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must  give Mr L a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Should an outstanding balance  (or balances) remain on the accounts  in question  after all adjustments  
have been made Halifax can use any compensation due to Mr L to reduce  what  he owes.  Id also 
remind Halifax  of its obligation to exercise  forbearance should outstanding  balances remain  after all 
adjustments have been made to Mr Ls accounts and its the case that he is experiencing  financial 
difficulty.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Mr Ls complaint and tell Bank of Scotland  plc 
(trading as Halifax) to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 2 March 2021  changes my mind, thats what Ill tell 
Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5447642