K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of his car insurance  policy.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
background
In early November 2015, Mr S was involved in an accident with another driver. They both 
said the other was at fault. Mr Ss car was a total loss. 
AXA settled  the other  drivers claim on a without prejudice basis.  That means that although 
they settled the claim, they didnt  admit liability on Mr Ss part. When Mr Ss policy was 
renewed in 2016 his premium more than doubled.  And when it renewed in 2017 it again 
increased substantially.  The increase  was in part due to the accident Mr S had that was 
recorded as a fault claim against his policy.
Mr S complained. But AXA didnt uphold his complaint. As Mr S wasnt  happy with AXAs 
decision, he brought his complaint to our service.  One of our adjudicators looked into the 
complaint. He felt that Admiral acted fairly. But as Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicator, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 24 May 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  if AXA have treated Mr S in a fair and 
reasonable way.
settling the other drivers claim
Like most motor insurance  policies,  Mr Ss policy gives AXA the discretion to settle 
claims as they feel appropriate.  They dont need his permission before doing  so. But I 
expect AXAs decision to be fair and reasonable. Especially as decisions on settling 
third party claims  can have  serious consequences  for policy holders. In Mr Ss case, 
settling the claim has resulted in a fault claim being recorded against his insurance 
record which has resulted  in his premium  going up substantially. This is likely to 
affect him for some  years to come.
I have to look to see if AXAs decision to settle  the claim was fair and reasonable, 
and if they investigated it before making their decision. 
Mr S reported the accident to AXA immediately. During that call Mr S said the other  
driver was to blame  and that the police attended  the scene. AXA sent Mr S an 
accident report form to complete  giving details of the accident. Mr S completed the 
form and returned  it to AXA together with diagrams of the scene and layout of the 
cars. He clearly explained how the accident happened  and again  said the other driver 
was to blame. Mr S also told AXA that the police  told him there were three potential 
witnesses to the accident and that the other  driver had their details. Mr S asked AXA 
to obtain the witnesses details. 
Ref: DRN50884842In the accident  form and accompanying diagrams, Mr S clearly explained that both 
he and the other driver were driving on a main road in opposite  directions heading 
towards each other. Mr S said he intended to turn right into a side road when he 
slowed as he neared the centre of the road. Mr S said the other driver was speeding  
and crashed into his car. On 21 December 2015, a month after Mr S returned  the 
accident form, AXA wrote  to him and said they were  holding  him responsible  for the 
accident, because: You have pulled out from a side road and your vehicle has 
suffered frontal damage which would indicate  you were  not fully established  on the 
road. Its clear  from AXAs subsequent correspondence that they misunderstood Mr 
Ss explanation of how the accident happened,  even  though  I think  his explanation, 
together with the diagrams, was clear.  
When Mr S challenged AXA saying  they had misunderstood his explanation  they 
wrote back  to him saying  they understood that he was travelling  on a main  road and 
that he intended to turn off into a side road,  but they said they still felt he was to 
blame. Mr S asked AXA to: contact  the other driver  to get his account of what 
happened; get the witnesses details; and any photos the other driver had. 
Essentially, Mr S wanted the matter  investigated further. AXA responded by saying 
there was no request for any witness statements or witness contact information  
because an admission of liability  had been given  based on the information  given  on 
your accident report form. The third party have not yet submitted their full claim. They 
have sent a request for payment AXA said they had asked the engineer for photos 
of Mr Ss car. 
So AXA admitted liability on Mr Ss behalf  without  receiving the other  drivers  full 
claim; without making any enquiry about  witnesses; without asking the police for any 
information/report they may have; without having photos; and without considering  the 
possibility of getting an accident  investigation report. They  also misunderstood his 
version of events on which they based their decision on liability and is why they said 
they didnt ask for witness details. I dont think they investigated the accident 
reasonably. I dont expect  insurers to take matters to court,  which can be costly, 
where theres no prospect of a successful outcome. But I do expect them  to 
investigate claims reasonably and fairly before deciding  whether to take the matter  to 
court or to settle  a claim. I dont think that happened in this case.  The early stages 
following an accident  are crucial where there  is a bigger  window of opportunity  to 
gather crucial evidence  and before  memories  fade. But from the information  I have  
seen AXA didnt follow up Mr Ss request  for them to speak to the witnesses; no 
information was requested  from the police; no CCTV enquiries  were made; the other 
drivers statement or full claim wasnt  requested; photos werent requested  until after 
AXA decided Mr S was at fault; and no consideration was given to getting  an 
accident investigation report or any other expert evidence.
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold this complaint.  Given the passage of 
time and the evidence  lost, such as an examination of the cars to establish  how the 
impact happened;  an accident investigation  report of the scene; and witness  
evidence, I think the opportunity  for Mr S to take the matter to court  and succeed in 
proving the other driver was at fault has been lost. And that isnt fair. I therefore  
intend to require AXA to correct all records, in particular the insurance  database,  to 
show that the accident wasnt Mr Ss fault.  AXA should send Mr S a letter confirming 
that. AXA should also reinstate Mr Ss no claims bonus (NCB) year for the policy  year 
in which  the accident happened. I also intend to require AXA to recalculate  Mr Ss 
premiums for all subsequent years  he renewed his policy with them. That 
Ref: DRN50884843recalculation should  be on the basis of Mr S having  a non-fault  claim.  If as a result  of 
the recalculation  Mr S is due a refund, that refund  should be made together with 
simple interest at 8% a year from the date(s) he made payment until a refund is 
made to him. This matter  has been  ongoing  for over three years and Im aware  that 
its been a source  of distress and inconvenience to Mr S. I therefore  intend to require 
AXA to pay him £500  compensation to address  that.
premium increase on renewal
Mr S wasn't happy with the level of the 2016 and 2017 premium increases. The 
premium for the 2016 renewal more than doubled  when compared  to the 2015 
premium. And the 2017 premium almost  doubled  when compared  to the 2016 
premium. When  setting  the renewal premium  AXA took into consideration a number 
of factors, including  the fault claim resulting from Mr Ss accident. 
AXA have given me information showing how it calculated Mr Ss premium. I cant  
share that with Mr S as its commercially  sensitive.  But having looked at that, I can 
see that the renewal  premium calculation was in line with AXAs risk rating  guidance 
(what they base their premiums on). At the time of the 2016  renewal  the claim was 
still open (not yet settled), but open claims are treated as fault claims so when AXA 
calculated the renewal premium they would have treated the open claim as a fault 
claim. And when the policy came to renew  in 2017, the claim was closed as a fault 
claim. So while the actual renewal premium  calculations  were correct at the relevant 
times as they were  based  on specific factors - including the fault claim - given my 
provisional findings above, namely  that AXA should correct the insurance database 
records to show Mr Ss accident as a non-fault claim on the policy, they should 
refund the portion of the premiums that increased  because of the fault claim. AXA 
should recalculate the 2016 and 2017  renewal premiums on the basis  of Mr Ss 
accident being a non-fault  accident.  Any reduction  in premiums should be refunded  
to Mr S with interest, as described above.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. AXA didnt comment on my provisional 
findings. Mr S was given  an extension until 21 June  2018 to comment. But as of 24 June he 
didnt provide any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
Ref: DRN50884844my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Correct the insurance database records to show that Mr Ss accident was non-fault. They 
should also send  him a letter  explaining  that.
Reinstate any lost no claims  bonus years  as a result of the accident  being recorded as 
fault.
Recalculate the 2016 and 2017  renewal premiums on the basis  of there being a non-fault  
accident. Any refund  due to Mr S should include  simple  interest  at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date he paid the premiums  until the refund  is made.1 
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr S has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
1 If AXA consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr S how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5088484