K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that a used car she agreed  to buy from Close Brothers Limited  (trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance) (Close Brothers) under  a conditional sale agreement  wasnt 
of satisfactory quality, contrary to the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 August 2019,  a copy of which  is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Miss H accepted my provisional decision, and provided evidence that she had paid £93 for 
her car park permit.
Close Brothers said it would accept my provisional  decision on the basis there was no 
damage caused by Miss H to the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say I dont think its reasonable for Close Brothers to raise  an issue  about the 
condition of the car so late in the day, particularly as Miss H has been trying  to reject it since  
the failure of the second repair in March 2019,  and its been  sitting on her driveway unusable  
and subject to a SORN since then. So I dont propose to qualify my decision as Close 
Brothers suggests.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Close  Brothers Limited (trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance) to:
1.collect the car at no cost to Miss H and at a time convenient to her;
2.end the conditional sale agreement with no further liability  to Miss H, and ensure that 
no adverse credit  information is recorded  against  her on her credit file;
3.refund  to Miss H her deposit of £1,000,  and all monthly payments shes  made except 
those for July, August, September and October  2018;
4.pay Miss H interest on the sums to be refunded as mentioned in 3 above at the 
annual rate of 8% simple from the respective  dates she paid them until the date of 
settlement (1);
5.refund  to Miss H a total of £1,192.22  for her insurance payments;
6.refund  Miss H the £93 she paid for the university  parking permit she bought  for the 
car; and
7.pay Miss H compensation  of £500 for the distress and inconvenience its caused  her.
Ref: DRN51593792Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November  2019. 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue  and Customs to withhold tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss H how much  its taken off. It should also give Miss H a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  
and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN51593793COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 9 AUGUST 2019
complaint
Miss H complains  that a used  car she agreed to buy from Close Brothers Limited (trading as Close  
Brothers Motor  Finance (Close Brothers) under  a conditional  sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory  
quality, contrary to the requirements of the Consumer  Rights Act 2015.
background
Miss H entered into the conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers for a used car in June 2018. It 
was then some five years  old and had a recorded mileage of 58,606 miles.  The cash price of the car 
was stated  to be £8,895. Miss H paid a deposit of £1,000, and agreed to pay the balance,  plus 
finance charges, by 54 monthly payments of £203.19 each, the first to be paid on 13 July 2018.
Miss H says she didnt start driving the car until August  2018, when she took out a new insurance  
policy for it. 
On 2 November 2018 the car broke down and she was no longer able to drive it. It had covered some 
1,700 miles since she acquired it. The garage that supplied the car, whom  Ill call S, wouldnt help. 
She contacted  Close Brothers,  who also failed to get S to help.
Close Brothers told her, wrongly, that she would have to arrange  for the engine to be stripped so an 
engineer could inspect the damage.  So Miss H spent time trying unsuccessfully to arrange this. 
Eventually Close Brothers conceded this was unnecessary and arranged for an independent engineer 
to inspect the car on 24 January 2019.
The engineers report said the engine  running  noise indicated loose fuel injectors.  It concluded that:
new securing  clamps  seemed to have  been  fitted  to cylinder number 1 fuel injector;
cylinder number 2 fuel injector securing clamp  had broken;
the vehicle required possible fuel injectors and fuel injector securing  clamps; and
on the balance of probability, the vehicle had been developing faults at finance inception and 
so should be returned to the selling garage for repairs.
There was then further  delay by Close Brothers in arranging for the car to be collected  and returned to 
S for repairs. It wasnt until 12 March  2019 that Miss H was able to collect the car from S. However  
within days it broke  down again. Miss H got a diagnostic  report  from another  garage, which  showed 
cylinder number 1 injector was leaking.
Miss H complained  to us. She wanted to reject the car and have her deposit and monthly  payments 
refunded. She also wanted to be refunded her car insurance costs (except for the three months 
August, September  and October  when  she was able to use the car), her university parking permit, 
and alternative transport  costs, and to receive  compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
had suffered.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld. This was on the basis the car 
first broke down within 6 months of Miss H acquiring it, and the independent engineer  thought the car 
would have been faulty when supplied  to Miss H.
Close Brothers had been given the opportunity to repair the car, but it had quickly broken  down again. 
The adjudicator was satisfied the second breakdown was related to the same fault disclosed by the 
report. So the car hadnt  been  repaired to a satisfactory standard on the first occasion, and Miss H 
was entitled to reject  it.
In April 2019  the adjudicator  recommended that Close Brothers:
Ref: DRN515937941.collect the car at no cost to Miss H;
2.end the agreement with no further liability to Miss H;
3.refund her deposit  with 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement;
4.refund five monthly payments as Miss H hadnt had fair use of the car;
5.refund a total of £1192.22 for her insurance payments  as she had only had use of the car for 
three months. (Miss Hs insurance for the year was £1,589.63. So he didnt think  it fair that 
she suffered a financial loss as a result of the fault with the car, for which she wasnt 
responsible); and
6.pay an additional £200 to compensate Miss H for the distress  and inconvenience caused as 
she had to take public transport as her car wasnt driveable, and for her time in getting 
diagnostics carried out.
Close Brothers didnt respond to the adjudicators recommendation.  However Miss H says it told her it 
didnt accept that it was responsible the further damage to the car, and so hasnt allowed  her to reject 
it.
Miss H responded to say, in summary, that:
she didnt think it was fair that she had to pay five monthly  payments for a car she had only 
had use of for three months;
because she couldnt use her car she had to use public transport. She thought she should be 
able to claim  the costs  of this, which  by the end of April 2019 were nearly £200;
she thought she should be refunded the cost of the university parking permit she had paid for, 
but could only use for a month;
the extra  time involved in travelling on public  transport between  home and her place of study 
meant she couldnt continue in her part-time job, from which she was earning  £200 a week;  
and
she didnt think compensation  of £200 was enough for the distress  and inconvenience  Close 
Brothers had caused her. It hadnt  offered  her a courtesy car, and wouldnt agree  to freeze 
her monthly payments  until the situation was resolved.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I think  Close  Brothers  has handled Miss Hs complaint poorly from the time she brought it to its 
attention at the beginning of November 2018. Ive read Close Brothers file, and its clear  from the first 
entry that it recognises  that because the car broke down within the first six months it will be 
responsible under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 for repairing it.
In spite  of this, it failed  to get S to agree to repair the car, and it wrongly  told Miss H that she would 
have to arrange  and pay for the engine  to be stripped down before an independent  engineer could 
inspect the damage. The result was that the car wasnt inspected until 24 January 2019. 
Although it had what I consider to be a clear  report by the independent  engineer  that the car was 
faulty when supplied to Miss H, Close  Brothers then failed  to get the initial repairs completed until 12 
March 2019.
Like the adjudicator, I think the further damage to the car that occurred shortly after Close Brothers 
was given  the opportunity to carry  out repairs was linked  to the damage the independent engineer  
found. He says in his report; the vehicle  requires  possible fuel injectors  and fuel injector securing  
clamps. So Close Brothers should have ensured that all the injectors and clamps  were  checked,  and 
should have replaced these if required.  But it seems it failed to do this.
Ref: DRN51593795It isnt our role to fine or punish a business in respect of its behaviour  that is for the Financial  
Conduct Authority to consider. However,  we will require  a business  to compensate a consumer  where 
we think its appropriate to do so.
Close Brothers had one opportunity under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 to identify and correct the 
fault which  the engineers report revealed, and ensure the injectors and clamps  were functioning 
properly, but it failed to do so. Like the adjudicator,  I think Miss H is entitled  to reject  the car, and 
Close Brothers should arrange to collect it from Miss H without further cost to her.
She had the opportunity to use the car from 13 June 2018 until 2 November 2018. So its fair she 
should pay Close Brothers in respect of that period.  The fact that for her own reasons she didnt start 
using the car until the beginning of August  2018  was her decision, and Close Brothers shouldnt be 
penalised for this. 
I think  its fair that Close Brothers should be able to retain the monthly  payments Miss H made  in July, 
August, September  and October. However,  I think it should refund the deposit and all other monthly 
payments to Miss H. It should also pay her interest on those sums from the respective dates of 
payment until settlement.
For the reasons  the adjudicator explained, I agree that Close Brothers should refund £1,192.22 to 
Miss H in respect of her insurance costs. I think its also fair that it refunds the cost of the university 
parking permit she had to buy, given  that she was able to make  so little use of it, subject to her 
providing proof of payment. It would  have been of use to her while she was studying, but not any 
more now that she will have graduated.
However Miss H always needed to pay something to get from home  to her place  of study.  So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to require Close Brothers to refund both her car costs and her costs on 
public transport.
Miss H has also said lack of a car also meant the part-time job she previously had was no longer 
viable, which meant she was £200 a week worse off. However I dont think  a loss of this nature was 
reasonably foreseeable  by Close Brothers, so I wont  require it to compensate her for this.
The adjudicator recommended that Close Brothers pay Miss H compensation  of £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused  her. I dont think this is sufficient. I think  it was clear  to Close Brothers in 
November 2018 that it would be responsible  for repairing  the car.
However it failed to ensure that S or another repairer  did this. It then wrongly  told Miss H she needed  
to arrange and pay for the engine to be stripped. And it was slow to arrange  an independent report, 
which wasnt completed  until 24 January 2019. The first repair wasnt completed until 12 March  2019.  
And Miss H still isnt able to use the car.
Because of this, Miss H has suffered distress  and inconvenience over a significant  period. I think the 
appropriate compensation  for Close Brothers to pay her for this is £500.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Miss H or from Close Brothers  by 9 September 2019, I intend to uphold  this complaint.  I intend 
to order  Close Brothers Limited (trading  as Close Brothers Motor  Finance) to:
1.collect the car at no cost to Miss H and at a time convenient to her;
2.end the conditional  sale agreement with no further liability to Miss H, and ensure  that no 
adverse credit information  is recorded against Miss H in respect of it on her credit file;
Ref: DRN515937963.refund to Miss H her deposit  of £1,000, and all monthly  payments she has made except those 
for July, August, September and October 2018;
4.pay Miss H interest on the sums to be refunded as mentioned in 3. above at the annual rate 
of 8% simple from the respective dates she paid them until the date of settlement  (1);
5.refund to Miss H a total of £1,192.22 for her insurance payments;
6.refund Miss H the cost of the university  parking  permit she bought for the car, subject to her 
providing proof of having paid this; and
7.pay Miss H compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)If Close Brothers considers that its required  by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken  off. It should also give Miss H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5159379