K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs F complains that FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Mrs F took out in 1993. 
FICL says that PPI premiums totalling £6.25  were paid by Mrs F whilst the policy was in 
force.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
FICL has provided a copy of the card application which Mrs F signed for her store  card. 
Theres a section on this headed Payment  and Card Protection. I can see that the Yes 
box provided to confirm that PPI was required has been ticked. Theres  an equally prominent 
No box that could  have been  ticked if this cover wasnt required. I can also see that the 
option to take card protection cover hasnt been  selected. So from what Ive seen, I think its 
most likely Mrs F knew at the time that the PPI was optional and that she actively decided to 
take it. But I can understand  why she might not recall this now,  as the sale took place a long 
time ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt need to check that it was suitable, given 
her circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure that she was given enough 
information to decide whether she wanted to take it. Although  I dont know  what  was said to 
her then, I think  its likely  that the information  she received about the PPI could  have been  
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  her mind about 
taking the cover. I say this because:
Mrs F appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs F wasnt  able to work because  
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment.  It also provided twelve months purchase 
cover. Mrs F says she was eligible  for sick pay and had other  means which could have  
been used to make her repayments  if she couldnt work. However, she hasnt provided 
the further details of these requested by our adjudicator. But from the information which 
is available to me, I dont think its likely that her other means would have meant  she had 
no need of the cover.  The policy would have paid out in addition  to her other means and 
Ref: DRN57233482she chose to take the cover, which makes  me think she wanted this type of protection.  
So on the basis of all the information available to me, I think  Mrs F would have valued 
the extra security which  the policy gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs F. And as the policys  
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
So, on balance, I dont  think that Mrs F has lost out by anything that FICL may have done  
wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5723348