K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading at the time as Leeds Permanent  Building  
Society, later taken over by Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr D in 1992. Mr D was covered 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The policy cost £12 per month and wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £200 per month for up to 12 months  per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
Mr D said he was told by Leeds Permanent Building Society that you had to take PPI to get 
the mortgage. He said when he was unemployed he didnt make a claim as he didnt realise  
the PPI had carried over.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Leeds Permanent  Building Society  gave any advice or recommendation, did it 
make sure the product it recommended was suitable  for Mr Ds needs?
- Did Leeds Permanent Building Society give Mr D the information he needed to 
decide whether  to take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr D is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr D says he took out PPI because  he was told he had to, to get the mortgage. Bank of 
Scotland hasnt  been able to provide the paperwork from the time of sale, as these events 
occurred a number  of years ago. This isnt surprising; businesses  often  only keep records for 
up to six years. We dont  hold it against  the business in circumstances like this.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr Ds said. Ive also taken into account what Bank of 
Scotland has said  that it wouldve been made clear that PPI was optional.  Where there is a 
Ref: DRN59772132limited amount of information I have to consider what is more likely. Here,  I think it just as 
likely that Leeds  Permanent  Building Society  did make the optional  nature of the policy  clear.  
So, I cant fairly uphold  Mr Ds complaint on this ground.  Given  the limited paperwork 
available to me, I cant safely conclude that Leeds  Permanent didnt make the optional 
nature of the policy clear to Mr D. 
Bank of Scotland said this wouldve been  an advised  sale. So Leeds Permanent  Building  
Society had to consider whether the policy was suitable for Mr D, as well as giving him 
enough clear information  so that he could make  an informed  choice and decide  whether he 
wanted to buy it.
 
Looking at Mr Ds circumstances at the time of the sale, it doesnt appear  that the policy was 
unsuitable for him. I say this because:
- he was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions. 
- he said he wouldve got no less than 3 months worth  of sick pay through  work if he 
couldnt work due to sickness  or accident.  He also said he had around  3 months 
worth of pay in savings. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits 
and for up to 12 months per successful claim,  longer than his work benefits covered 
him for. Having  the policy in place wouldve meant  he could use his work- related 
benefits and savings to pay for other  household expenses. It wouldve saved him 
dipping into his savings at what couldve been a difficult  time for him financially. So I 
think Mr D wouldve found  the policy useful in his circumstances.
- Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefitted  from the full extent of the cover,  I dont think 
he needed better advice or information  about  the policys exclusions and limitations.
- It possible that Leeds Permanent Building  Society couldve made the costs of the 
policy clearer at the time it was sold. But, it seemed affordable   and covered Mr Ds 
mortgage repayments. I cant see that he wouldve made a different decision and not 
bought the policy if hed been given clearer information.
Its possible the information Leeds  Permanent Building Society gave Mr D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. As Ive already said,  he wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely  
Mr D would have made a different decision if better  information had been  provided  overall, 
I think he would still have  taken out the policy. 
Mr Ds mortgage was carried over to the Halifax  and then to Bank of Scotland. So, I dont 
think it unreasonable that his PPI policy carried over too. And Mr D seemed to know  that he 
had a policy with Leeds Permanent Building Society, because he said he was told he had to 
have it. .Having considered everything  that Mr D has had to say this hasnt changed my 
view. I cant see that hes lost out because of anything that Leeds Permanent  Building  
Society may have done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN59772133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5977213