K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc unfairly defaulted his account.
background
Mr M has a credit  card account with Capital One. He experienced financial difficulty and 
entered into a number  of repayment plans with the business. Mr M eventually asked a debt 
charity to represent him, but Capital One wasnt willing to liaise  with the charity.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She thought it was 
unreasonable for Capital One not to liaise with the charity representing Mr M. The 
adjudicator said Capital One should refund interest applied to the account  since Mr M asked  
the charity to represent him in June  2018,  and freeze any further interest. She also said it 
should work with the debt charity to agree a suitable plan that was affordable  for Mr M.
The adjudicator recommended Capital  One should  pay £100 compensation for the poor 
service Mr M had received.
Mr M and Capital One both initially agreed  with the adjudicators conclusions.  But Mr M said 
he didnt want to make any changes to his existing  repayment plan until he provided  updated  
details of income and expenditure to all his creditors in September  2019. 
Mr M was paying £23.63  under his existing repayment plan. Capital One said this was less 
than his minimum payment amount of about £26. It said Mr M should pay this amount if he 
wanted to avoid a default on the account.
But the adjudicator didnt  think  it was reasonable to expect Mr M to increase his payments 
until his plan was reviewed in September 2019.
Capital One took steps  to default  the account  in June 2019. The complaint was passed  to 
me to review  in light of the action taken  by Capital One.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 4 December 2019. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
Both Capital One and Mr M agreed that the £100  compensation was fair and I agreed 
with that too. 
Capital One said Mr Ms repayment plan was long term, and that his existing 
repayments were below the minimum payment  amount  required for his account. So 
its usual process in those circumstances is to default the account. It said it gave Mr M 
information about how his plan would  affect his credit record.
I thought it wouldve  been reasonable for Mr M to continue with his existing payment 
plan until his income and expenditure were  reviewed in September 2019.  
But even  if I were  to decide  that Capital One should remove  the default  referred  to in 
the notice dated  June  2019, I thought it would still be reasonable for the business to 
review Mr Ms account with effect from September 2019.  Payment plans like this 
arent meant to be long term strategies for customers to maintain their accounts. So 
Ref: DRN53137182Capital One wouldve always have been  entitled  to review the arrangements  at that 
point.
But, Mr M had confirmed  that he still isnt (and hasnt been) able to meet the 
minimum amounts to the account  since September. So its likely that if Capital One 
reviewed Mr Ms account with effect  from September 2019, it would be defaulted 
shortly after that date. 
A default will remain on Mr Ms credit file for six years. With that in mind,  I considered  
it better for Mr M to have the default  removed six years from June 2019, rather  than 
later in 2019. So I wasnt persuaded that Capital One should  remove the existing 
default from Mr Ms credit file. 
In response to my provisional findings  Mr M said, in summary, that Capital  One had made it 
difficult for him to pay off his credit card. He considered it unfair for the business to default 
his account when his payments were only a couple  of pounds below the minimum payment 
amount.
Capital One didnt make any further representations  in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position,  and can see why he might consider  its unfair  for 
Capital One to default the account  when his payments are close to the minimum amounts 
required.
But even if Mr Ms payments are close to the minimum repayments, they are still below 
whats required under  the terms and conditions  of the account. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to tell Capital One to accept an amount thats  lower  than required, and to 
remove the default on the account. 
Mr M has also mentioned Capital Ones letter where it said the default could be avoided if 
Mr M cancelled his payment plan.  But the letter also said that in those circumstances Mr M 
would have to make at least  the minimum repayments and make  arrangements  to repay  the 
overdue amount  on his account. 
As Mr M has said he isnt (and hasnt been) able to make the minimum repayments,  I think 
its unlikely that Mr M would be able to meet  Capital  Ones  requirements for avoiding  the 
default. 
I remain of the view that it is better for Mr M to have the default removed six years from June 
2019, rather than later in 2019. So Im not persuaded  that Capital One should remove  the 
existing default  from Mr Ms credit file. 
Overall, Im not minded to depart from the position  set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN53137183my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5313718