K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didn't manage  her 
credit card account properly when  she was in arrears. Miss C says if the account had been  
managed properly, her debt wouldn't have been  sold to a third party  debt collection agency.
background
Miss C has had complaints and concerns  about  how Barclaycard handled her credit  card 
account over several years.
From February 2015, Miss C was generally using her account  within  her credit limit and she 
had a direct  debit set up to repay  £100  each month.  These payments were maintained until 
September 2015, when her account fell into arrears. Barclaycard continued to apply interest  
and charges to her account. 
Miss C told Barclaycard in November  2015 that her circumstances had changed. And in 
February 2016, Barclaycard suspended interest and charges. It also agreed  a repayment 
plan with Miss C.
On 23 June 2016, Barclaycard responded to Miss Cs concerns about  her payments being 
applied to her account  late. The letter addressed  Miss Cs complaint. Barclaycard also told 
Miss C it had a legal obligation to provide accurate  and true information about her account to 
the credit  reference  agencies. The letter confirmed  a default had been  recorded correctly 
and Barclaycard would not reinstate the account.  The letter went  on to make Miss C aware 
of her right to refer her complaint to our service  within six months.  After  Miss C referred  this 
complaint to our service, one of our investigators considered it under a separate  reference.  
The investigator thought that complaint was brought to us too late, but I have not considered  
that as part of this decision.  
In September  2016, Barclaycard decided to sell Miss Cs account to a third party. 
Barclaycard says it decided to do this because Miss C wasnt making her contractual  
monthly repayments. Miss C has complained about how the third party  has since managed 
her account,  which  is being  considered by our service under a separate complaint reference 
so Ive not considered that as part of this decision.
In August  2018,  Barclaycard wrote  to Miss C. It said that for customers  in arrears, it hadnt 
always met its expected  standards. As Miss Cs account had been passed to a third party, it 
asked the third party to reduce the outstanding  balance owed by £280.74.  
Miss C complained to our service. She said that Barclaycard  didnt handle  her account 
properly, so Barclaycard  shouldnt  have  passed her account  to a third party  or recorded  a 
default on her credit  file. 
One of our investigators  explained that as part of this complaint reference, she reviewed 
what had happened  with Miss Cs account between February 2015  and September  2016, 
when her account was sold to a third party. Our investigator thought Barclaycard had 
managed Miss Cs account  correctly.
However, Barclaycard  said it shouldnt  have continued to apply interest  and charges to 
Miss Cs account after it fell into arrears in September  2015. Barclaycard said it should have 
defaulted Miss Cs account in December 2015  to stop it incurring further interest and 
Ref: DRN56122182charges  three months  after Miss C stopped  making her monthly repayments. So 
Barclaycard said it would refund £280.74  and asked the third party that now owns Miss Cs 
account to reduce the balance owed by this amount.   Our investigator thought that this offer 
was fair and didnt  recommend Barclaycard take any further action.  Miss C disagreed with 
our investigators opinion, so this has come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not upheld  Miss Cs 
complaint. I realise  this is likely to disappoint  her, but Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, Ive not considered  any of Miss Cs complaint points that Barclaycard responded to 
on 23 June 2016,  including  her concerns about  her repayment plan and Barclaycard 
recording a default  on her credit file. Ive only considered what Barclaycard did since then.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Cs account  say:
If you miss two payments in a row, we will cancel any instalment plans on your 
account and move any remaining instalment plan balance to your standard  balance 
and charge interest at your standard rate
We may also sell your debt on to another organisation.
Miss C had missed more than two repayments in a row. As Miss C wasnt  making her 
contractual repayments, Im satisfied Barclaycard was entitled to sell her account onto a third 
party  and it wasnt obliged  to notify her. I understand the third party made attempts to 
contact Miss C, which Ive not considered as part of this complaint. 
I know Miss C thinks Barclays  mis-managed  her account. But Barclaycards offered to refund 
the interest and charges since December 2015. The interest  and charges applied  were 
relatively small compared to the balance owed on the account, which  was over £6,400. And 
as Ive said above, Miss C had missed repayments so Barclaycard was entitled to sell the 
balance owed on her account to a third party.  
I agree  with Barclaycard that it could have defaulted Miss Cs account as early  as December 
2015. This would  have  avoided the £280.74 of interest and charges it refunded, so I think 
Barclaycards offer is fair. I think its reasonable that Barclaycard asked the third party  that 
now owns Miss Cs account to credit her account  with £280.74. I dont  think  Barclaycard 
needs to offer Miss C any additional  compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5612218