K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial  Services Limited didnt communicate  with him clearly 
when he was trying to pay the full balance from his statement.
background
Mr H says he was trying to pay the full outstanding  balance from his February 2018 
statement so he didnt  incur interest on his following statement. 
Mr H sent a number  of emails to Creation   a summary of these are below:
On 27 February Mr H emailed Creation saying hed made a payment to clear  the 
February statement  balance. 
Creation replied on 1 March 2018  saying that the full statement balance  was 
£432.71. Creation  said it had received Mr Hs payment of £168.12 and this would go 
towards the payment for the February statement. The email also said that in order to 
not incur interest,  Mr H would need  to clear the full statement  balance  by the 
payment due date,  14 March 2018.
On 2 March, Mr H told Creation  that hed made a payment prior to the £168.12. He 
asked for confirmation the February statement balance had been settled in full.
On 7 March, Creation  responded confirming it had received payments of £168.12 
and £125.50.  It said Mr H would  need to clear  the full statement balance of £432.71  
by 14 March in order to not incur interest  charges.
Mr H didnt make any additional payments to the account before 14 March  2018 and 
because of this Mr H incurred interest  on his next statement. He made a complaint  to 
Creation about  this and the way it had communicated with him  Mr H says he found  the way 
Creation communicated with him confusing. Creation said it hadnt  done anything wrong in 
applying the interest  to his account  and it thought it had communicated  clearly with Mr H. 
Our adjudicator also thought that Creation  had acted fairly. Mr H didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint  and Ill explain why below.
Ive seen a copy  of the February 2018 statement  that confirms the New balance on Mr Hs 
account was £432.71 and the payment due date was 14 March 2018.
Ive seen a copy  of the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account. This says that  we will not 
charge Interest on Standard Purchases  shown on your Statement if you pay off the whole 
balance shown on the Statement and on the previous Statement, by the payment due date 
shown on your Statement.  So I think Creation has acted in line with its terms and 
conditions when it applied  interest  to Mr Hs account  after it didnt receive the full statement 
balance by the payment due date.
Ref: DRN57378332Mr Hs main point  is that he didnt think the communication  he had with Creation  was clear. 
Ive seen copies  of the email correspondence Mr H had with creation about paying the 
balance in full.
Ive looked carefully  at the email exchange  between Mr H and Creation.  I can see Creation 
did answer Mr Hs questions, and the information  it gave him was correct. So I cant fairly 
say Creation has done anything wrong  here. And bearing in mind  Creation had provided the 
total amount needing to be paid to avoid interest  and the amount already paid, all Mr H had 
to do was a relatively  straightforward calculation to work out what was left to pay. If Mr H still 
wasnt clear on this point  he could have asked Creation how much  was left to pay to clear 
the balance by the statement due date. But Mr H chose to pay nothing more  before the due 
date knowing hed not paid the full amount. So I think  interest  was correctly applied  to the 
outstanding statement balance. So Im not going to ask Creation to do anything more for 
Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5737833