K820x#14complaint
Mr Q is unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) wont provide 
further funding  for an employment tribunal claim hes pursuing. 
background
Mr Q has a legal expenses policy underwritten by DAS. In 2015 he contacted  DAS as he 
wanted funding  to pursue an employment tribunal claim. DAS agreed to provide cover  and 
Mr Q signed an agreement with a direct access barrister. Matters progressed and Mr Q was 
successful in obtaining compensation at a hearing in June 2018.  He then sought funding to 
pursue an appeal in relation to one aspect of his claim. 
DAS said his policy had an indemnity  limit of £50,000 and Mr Qs legal costs were already in 
excess of this. So it wouldnt be providing  further  funding. Mr Q said the tribunal had 
awarded 80% of costs  against the respondent. Although these still needed to be assessed 
once this had taken place hed be well within the policy  indemnity limit. He said DAS should  
agree funding for his appeal. 
DAS said the costs hadnt yet been assessed and nothing had actually been recovered  from 
the respondent. So as things stood the policy indemnity limit had been  reached.  However, it 
said it would  be happy to reconsider once the position  on costs was clearer. It also accepted  
there had been  some  delay in responding to the request Mr Q and his barrister  made in 
relation to appeal  funding  for which it agreed to pay £150.
Our investigator thought that was fair. And she thought it was reasonable  of DAS to wait until 
the costs position was clear before deciding how this affected  the policy indemnity limit. DAS 
confirmed to her that if there was then indemnity left it would fund costs  relating to the 
appeal subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr Q agreed with that approach but thought DAS should pay him a further  £300  as that 
hadnt been made clear to him earlier. Our investigator didnt agree and so I need  to reach a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it both parties  now agree  that funding for Mr Qs appeal  should be decided  
once DAS is in a better position to know what indemnity  remains  under his policy. And that if 
indemnity is available DAS will provide  funding  for the appeal  subject  to the other terms and 
condition of the policy being  met.  
So Ive gone  on to think about whether DAS made its position on funding for the appeal clear  
to Mr Q prior to him bringing the complaint to us. I appreciate it was only following our 
investigation that Mr Q obtained the information he wanted in relation to this issue.  And it 
does appear that DAS may not have responded to an email from Mr Q asking it to clarify its 
position. But DAS had already explained that once judgement on costs had been confirmed 
it would  consider what indemnity remained under the policy and whether it could then 
consider the costs of the appeal. 
Ref: DRN58829632In response to his complaint it also said of course  if a costs recovery is made  from the other 
side it is likely that some indemnity would  be freed  up and we would be willing to reconsider 
our position  at that stage.  So while I accept it would  have been better if DAS had responded 
to Mr Qs subsequent  email I think the position was reasonably clear from what it had 
already said. It explained  the position  on appeal funding would be reassessed once it was 
clear what  indemnity remained under the policy  which is effectively the same position it 
subsequently confirmed to us. 
And while I agree there was some  delay by DAS in responding to the questions Mr Q and his 
barrister initially raised  about the appeal I think the £150  its already  offered does enough  to 
recognise the impact  of this delay on him. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  .Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882963