K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about his car hire agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VFS).
background
Mr C says he entered into a two year lease agreement with VFS in November 2017. He says 
he chose to pay an initial nine month  payment of £2,106, which then meant 23 following 
payments of £234.  And he says he couldve paid a reduced initial payment and then had 
larger payments for the remaining 23 months.
Mr C also says in March  2018 the car was involved in a collision, through no fault of his own 
and it was deemed a write-off. He says VFS communicated  a settlement figure to his car 
insurer, which its paid in full. But he says he was due to pay VFS a total of just under £7,500  
over 24 months, or around £10.26 per day over 730 days. And he says he only had the car 
for 143 days before the collision, so he got less than £1,500 worth of usage  from it, although 
hes paid VFS almost £3,300, including his initial payment and monthly payments up to the 
date of the collision. And he says this means  hed overpaid by around £1,800 at that point.
So, Mr C says he should receive a refund from VFS, in the circumstances. 
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said someone choosing  to pay one 
month up front wouldve  had the remainder of the £7,500 spread over 23 months. He said 
they wouldve  paid about 25% of the amount  due for the full term in return  for 20% usage 
when the car was written off, whereas hed paid 44% for the 20% usage hed enjoyed  at that 
point. And he said there ought to be redress for how far into his payments he was as 
compared with the amount of time he was able to enjoy the car.    
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
When Mr C entered into a car hire agreement with VFS, he was able to choose how much to 
pay by way of initial  rental. This is common practice  with such  agreements. And there are 
various reasons  why a consumer may choose to pay a low initial rental and relatively high 
monthly payments,  or to pay a higher  initial rental in return for correspondingly lower monthly 
payments.
I acknowledge Mr Cs argument that given his car was written  off less than five months  into 
the 24 month term, hes considerably worse off as a result of paying an initial rental equal to 
nine monthly payments  under the agreement, than he wouldve been if hed only paid, for 
example, one months initial  rental.  However,  I also note VFS has pointed out that he may be 
able to recover this loss from the driver  of the car that collided with him. 
Ref: DRN59861712Ive also looked  at the terms  of Mr Cs agreement and I see it doesnt provide for him to 
receive a refund of any part of his initial rental in these circumstances. And, taking 
everything Ive seen into account, I cant conclude VFS has done anything  wrong  by 
declining to make  a refund to Mr C. 
So, this means I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986171