K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained about esure  Insurance Limiteds decision to record a claim under her 
car insurance policy as a fault claim. 
background
Ms H was involved  in an incident  with another  driver  at a roundabout. She believes she 
wasnt at fault for the incident. esure settled the claim and recorded it as a fault claim. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability but we can look at whether an insurer  
has reached its decision fairly and in line with the policy. She viewed dashcam footage  
provided by the third party.  She thought esure had acted reasonably. 
Ms H didnt agree. She reiterated  the points she made when  she brought  her complaint to 
us. In summary they are:
The third party accelerated when approaching the roundabout.
The third party drove straight across  the mini roundabout and if he hadnt, the 
incident wouldnt have  happened. 
She believes the third party should  be held between 25% and 50% at fault for the 
incident. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Ive looked at the footage  provided by the third party of the incident. As the third party 
approached the roundabout (from exit one), his indicator can be heard. He continued round 
the roundabout to the right,  passing exit two. Ms H was at exit three  and proceeded to enter  
the roundabout even though the third party was already established  which caused the 
collision. 
I understand how strongly Ms H feels about her view of the incident.  As the investigator 
explained, we dont decide  liability. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its 
decision reasonably  and in line with the policy. In this case  I can understand why the 
concerns that Ms H raised werent persuasive  enough for esure to change  its stance. The 
onus was on Ms H to check the traffic  from her right and that it was safe and clear before 
she entered the roundabout. The third party was in view and evidently  established  on the 
roundabout. So I think  esures decision not to hold the third party at fault (even partly) for the 
incident was a fair one to make. 
esures handlers have  knowledge and experience of negotiating,  defending and settling 
claims. As the investigator explained, esure  can do this in Ms Hs name even if she doesnt 
agree with its decision. esure is entitled  to settle a claim on the best terms possible. It can do 
this rather than risk significant costs  defending  a claim where  it believes it has a low chance  
of success. 
Ref: DRN58616292I understand Ms H will be disappointed with my decision. But I think  esure properly  
considered the evidence  available and reached  its decision to settle  the claim as a fault 
claim in a fair and reasonable way. This means I dont thinks it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5861629