K820x#14complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC is pursuing Mrs H for a debt taken out on 
behalf of Mr Hs business account. Mrs H says she isnt a partner of the business or the 
bank account  and therefore  shouldnt  be liable. Mrs H in particular thinks  Lloyds  Bank PLC 
has amended their records.
background
Mr H set up a business  in 1998. Around 2001,  he opened up a business  account with 
Lloyds. Lloyds said this was set up as a partnership account with both Mr H and Mrs H as 
joint account holders.  But Mrs H says she has never been a partner of Mr Hs business  
only an administrator. So she doesnt  think she is a joint account  holder as Mr H is a sole 
trader.
The account  had an overdraft facility of around £70,000. This facility was set up and agreed 
to by both Mr H and Mrs H. And in 2004, a legal charge  was secured on the debt, by both 
parties, for an investment property.
Throughout 2016 and 2017, the business account  entered into a lot of borrowing. Lloyds  
extended the overdraft facilities a number  of times and asked for extra  information  relating to 
the finances of the business  in 2017. Due to a lack of information, Lloyds decided  to 
withdraw the overdraft  facility in 2017.  And a few months  later, the account was transferred 
to Lloyds Recovery team.
Lloyds are pursuing both Mr H and Mrs H for the debt  because they say they are jointly 
responsible. But Mrs H doesnt agree. 
When the complaint  was first brought to our service, there were issues around the 
jurisdiction. However, Lloyds agreed  to let us consider all of the events surrounding the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator who looked at things  didnt think Lloyds  had acted unreasonably by pursuing 
Mrs H for the debt. She said that while the account application form and initial  overdraft 
agreement wasnt available due to the amount of time that had passed, Lloyds had provided 
overdraft facility letters from 2011-2017 and some  of these letters were jointly signed. The 
adjudicator was also satisfied the facility letters confirm both Mr H and Mrs H would be jointly  
liable for the debt. And she hadnt seen any evidence that Lloyds amended  their records.  So 
she was satisfied Mrs H was a joint account holder.
Mrs H didnt agree. In particular, she didnt think the adjudicator had considered how Mr Hs 
business was known with HMRC  or their accountants. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained further below.
Ref: DRN51050192I appreciate Mrs H says she has never  been  a partner of Mr Hs business  shes only ever 
worked for him as an employee, and more recently an administrator. She thinks  the 
adjudicator should have  considered how the business was known with HMRC  or the 
accountants. But I dont think thats  relevant. This complaint relates to the business account 
 and whether  or not Mrs H was a joint account  holder,  and whether she can be pursued for 
the debt taken out by the business account. So while I appreciate her comments  about  her 
position in the company itself, I havent commented  on this in my findings.
What I have considered  is whether I think Mrs H should be pursued for the debt of the 
overdraft on the business account.  And, like the adjudicator, I think  she should. I say that 
because while I havent seen evidence of how the business account  was initially set up, Ive 
seen documentation  from the last number  of years which  shows Mrs Hs involvement in the 
account. In particular, Ive considered the overdraft facility letters.  I find them  to hold the 
most relevance as the overdraft debt is what Mrs H is being  pursued for. 
The facility  overdraft letters which Lloyds have  provided range from 2011 to 2017. Ive taken 
an example of one letter  and the points in it which I find to be most relevant;
We, Lloyds, are pleased to provide you Mrs H and Mr H with an overdraft  facility

Both of you are jointly and individually liable.  We may take action  against  any or all 
of you to recover any sums owing to us under or in connection  with this letter.
...
If you are unhappy with any of the conditions relating to your requested  lending,  
please do not sign the document
The letter makes it clear  that the overdraft for the business account  has been provided  to 
both Mrs H and Mr H. And it confirms that both parties will be held liable for the debt. I also 
consider if Mrs H wasnt happy to be held liable  for the debt, she shouldnt  have signed the 
document  as the letter suggests.  But she did. And therefore, I cant  say she didnt 
reasonably know  she was liable. It may be that Mrs H didnt understand the liability  but 
again, I would expect her to ask questions around  this rather  than signing  the document. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  she did and therefore I find Lloyds have been 
reasonable in holding  her jointly responsible  for the debt.
Lloyds have also provided evidence to show the account was set up as a partnership 
account. Im aware Mrs H disputes  this. When we have two conflicting versions of events,  I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what  I think most likely to 
have happened. The evidence Lloyds has provided shows Mrs H is listed as a business  
partner for the business account.  I appreciate shes not an actual partner  for the company 
itself, but as Ive explained above, Im only considering how the bank account was set up. 
The evidence goes  on to show  that Mrs H is a signatory on the account,  and has 50% of 
ownership. That doesnt mean  Mrs H is only liable for any debt, but also that she would be 
entitled to half of the account balance if it was in credit. Based on the evidence, I think  its 
more likely than not, the account was set up jointly with Mrs H and Mr H. 
I recognise the impact  Lloyds actions have had on Mrs H  and Im really sorry to hear of 
her anxiety. But in order to hold Lloyds responsible, I need  to be satisfied  that theyve done 
something wrong. And based on the all of the circumstances,  and the evidence Ive 
received, I dont think they have. I consider the account was set up jointly with both Mrs H 
and Mr H as account  holders  for the business  account. And Im satisfied the overdraft was 
Ref: DRN51050193lent to the business on the basis of both Mrs H and Mr H being liable. Therefore, I consider it 
reasonable that Lloyds are pursuing Mrs H for the debt.
I also havent seen  any evidence to show Lloyds have amended their records.
I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this, but I cant  fairly say Lloyds have acted 
unreasonably. So I wont be asking them to do anything. If the debt is still an issue, I would 
urge Mrs H and Mr H to contact the relevant team within Lloyds to discuss  repayment 
options.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5105019