K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. she applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch. 
At the time,  Mrs W was employed as a nurse.  She has told us she not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  her credit card should she be unable to 
work. But Mrs W was working as a nurse in the public  sector  so it is likely  shed  have been  
entitled to some sick pay and some  redundancy pay if she lost her job.
Mrs W has told us she suffered  from back pain in 1986 some  eight  years  before the policy  
was sold. Mrs W has not told us of any medical conditions she had at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment    subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ws credit card balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 79p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2004.
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs W and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
Ref: DRN51012132The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN51012133I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN51012134Lloyds doesnt  have a copy of the original application form. But it has shown us an example 
of the type of application form used at the time of the sale.  I can see it has boxes which 
could be ticked to either accept or decline PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs W knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
The sale most likely took place in a face to face meeting at a branch.  So I think it is likely 
Lloyds advised  Mrs W to buy the PPI.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W. There is no record of what the adviser  discussed  in relation to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting that took place so long 
ago. The adviser likely  had some limited  information about Mrs Ws financial circumstances, 
but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs W 
would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations  which might have 
meant the policy did not fully meet her needs.  For example, there is nothing  to suggest  
Lloyds considered whether Mrs W had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs W given her circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ws ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay she  would likely have been entitled  to.
-Although Mrs W says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ws employment  or occupation  which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Mrs W told us she had some  back pain in 1986 but this was 
several years before the sale took place. And Mrs W has not told us of any other pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  her ability to claim.
Ref: DRN51012135-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment , it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ws 
circumstances. Its unlikely  her sick pay or redundancy payment would have lasted 
for 12 months.
-Mrs W says the policy  would not have covered her into retirement. But Mrs W was 
only aged 50 at the time of the sale so the policy would have given many years of 
cover.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs W would have been  told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs W would  have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. 
I am also satisfied Mrs W would have realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs W 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary   
Mrs W might  have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based  her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs W. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mrs W all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN51012136value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs W? To what extent did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs W, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken  out the policy  in any 
event.
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
Ref: DRN51012137In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs W ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.. 
But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mrs W 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs W knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more  
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy excluded claims for mental  health  conditions
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs W be unable to 
do her own job or be following any other  occupation.  
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mrs W turned 65. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs W suffered from back 
pain in 1986 but Ive not seen any evidence  that she had any pre-existing medical conditions 
in 1994 and she was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had some good  reasons 
to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mrs W might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mrs W from taking out the policy, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and not following any other occupation  it may have  played into her thinking about what  she 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given her pause for thought  although its 
possible she may not have been  overly concerned given that if Mrs W was unable (through 
Ref: DRN51012138disability) to carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be following another 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Mrs W has complained that she reached 65 while the policy  was in place - and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mrs W was 50 when  she took out the PPI, so I 
think its more likely  than not shed have thought shed still get some value out of having the 
PPI, as it would  have covered her for a reasonable period of time before she turned 65.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs W would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in 
Ref: DRN51012139a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about  the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2021.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5101213