K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest  allowed him to use his 
overdraft facility on 21 and 22 August  2018 even though he had cancelled it during business  
hours on 21 August  2018. He feels that he shouldnt have  to repay the subsequent overdraft.
background
On 6 August  2018 Mr B contacted NatWest to arrange a repayment plan as he was having  
difficulties making the monthly interest repayments on his current account.  The bank agreed 
this after making  the necessary affordability  checks and Mr B agreed to pay back £20 per 
month towards his interest.  On 7 August  Mr B called the bank cancelling the repayment plan 
because he said his father was going to pay the already agreed £65 per month.
On 21 August Mr B cancelled his overdraft facility on line so that he couldnt  use it further to 
gamble. He said he expected the cancellation  to happen immediately but it didnt. Mr B says 
that because it wasnt immediately cancelled he used his overdraft to incur additional 
gambling debts  later on 21 August and then on 22 August  before the cancellation request 
was implemented.  
Mr B wrote to NatWest  on 29 August 2018 about  his ongoing financial difficulties.  He shared 
that he had mental  health issues and a gambling addiction  but that he was now receiving 
professional help and was recovering. He enclosed a detailed  breakdown  of his income and 
expenditure including his debts to other creditors. He asked that the bank stop the accrual of 
interest on his account and agree  to a new repayment plan. The bank agreed.
Mr B complained to the bank in September  2018  because he felt the overdraft  shouldve  
been reduced to £0 immediately  he made the application. He also felt that the bank 
shouldnt have allowed  him to spend his overdraft given his mental  health  concerns. But the 
bank didnt uphold  his complaint because although the cancellation  was made  on 21 August  
the system needed  to update and that was completed on 22 August.  Also the payments that 
Mr B claimed shouldnt have been allowed were for Point of Sale services  which  the bank 
has to honour.   
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome  so he brought his complaint  to our services  in 
December 2018.  Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint and 
felt the bank had acted  fairly. She found no evidence that Mr B had informed the bank of his 
mental illness or gambling problems or the seriousness of his situation  prior to cancelling  his 
overdraft on 21 August. 
Mr B was unhappy with this decision  and so it has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I listened to the phone call of 6 August. In it Mr B says he was having difficulties with work 
and home  life. He said he needed to arrange a repayment plan to reduce payments for 
6  12 months. There was no mention of mental  ill health or gambling addiction.  The bank 
conducted its normal checks and offered  him a repayment plan which Mr B accepted.  
Ref: DRN57596572Mr B called the bank  on 7 August to cancel the repayment plan.  Again  Mr B doesnt  mention 
his mental ill health  or gambling addiction.  
Although Mr B says that he made the bank aware of his health issues and gambling  
addiction during the phone calls he didnt.  I can appreciate that at the time he may have 
been under  a great deal of pressure and so may have thought he had shared his difficulties. 
Unfortunately he didnt so the bank couldnt  be expected  to have taken those  into 
consideration.
I realise that Mr B thought  the cancellation  of his overdraft would happen immediately. But 
NatWest has shown  us that it provides information about the process on its website when a 
customer makes  this request online.  This states  that if you submit your request online and 
apply  Mon - Thurs  before 5.30pm, well cancel your limit the next working day This is what 
the bank did, so I think NatWest provided  enough  information for Mr B to have been aware 
that this wasnt an immediate process.
The bank had suggested that he open  a basic current account that has no overdraft facility 
to prevent this situation but he decided  not to. Having cancelled his overdraft  Mr B took the 
decision to not only use his overdraft facility but also to transfer additional funds in order to 
gamble.  I dont feel that the bank can be blamed or held responsible for the resulting 
expenditure. The bank has tried to assist him further by freezing the accrual of interest and 
further charges  and agreeing a repayment plan that Mr B agrees is affordable.  In all the 
circumstance I feel that the bank has dealt  with Mr Bs complaint fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Constantia Pennie
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5759657