K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) declined  part of her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75; the Act).
background
In 2016 Mrs R and her husband  instructed  a third party (business  A) to obtain their release 
from a timeshare agreement they were  party  to. Mrs R paid for the sums due under the 
contractual agreement  (the contract)  as follows: 
a first payment of £1,000 made  using one of her Tesco credit cards, referred to both 
as a deposit  and a consultation fee in the contract; and,
two further payments  (totalling £8,180)  referred  to as the balance in the contract, 
using another  of her Tesco credit cards.
 
In return, the contract stated that a full refund would be issued if the release wasnt  achieved 
within 12 months.
In 2018, Mrs R contacted  Tesco to explain that the timeshare release hadnt  happened.  And 
business A were  no longer trading, meaning  she couldnt get the promised refund. So she 
asked Tesco to reimburse her for the whole  contract  price  under s.75. She provided Tesco 
with copies of the contract and her receipts for the three payments.  
Tesco accepted  that there  had been a breach of contract. But they explained that s.75 only 
applied to debtor-creditor-supplier agreements (DCS agreement)  where  there was a direct 
relationship between the debtor (Mrs R), the creditor (Tesco)  and the supplier of the goods 
and services (business  A). 
Mrs Rs receipts  showed that the first payment was paid directly  to business A. But that the 
further two payments were taken by a fourth  party (business B). Tesco said that theyd 
therefore been unable to determine a debtor-creditor-supplier link (DCS link) in relation to 
those payments, given  that the contract had been between  Mrs R and business A. So they 
offered to refund the first payment only. 
Mrs R contacted business B asking how they had been involved with the two further  
payments. Business B said that they had acted as a payment collection agent only.  And that 
all payments had been  immediately forwarded  to business A. Mrs R forwarded this to Tesco 
and said that this established  the DCS link. 
But Tesco didnt change their mind. They re-explained that business A was the service 
supplier. So the two further payments to business B had broken the direct relationship 
between Tesco and business A, hence  the requisite DCS link too.   
Mrs R remained  unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. In addition to the points 
she had made to Tesco she also said that the first payment was a deposit. So s.75 applied  
to the entire contract price  regardless of how the two further payments were made. 
She also said that she had made all of the payments to business  A. The first payment was 
made at their office. And the two further  payments were made by providing business  A with 
her credit card details. So as far as she was concerned her payments were  made  to them  
Ref: DRN53076662and she hadnt  known about business Bs involvement until she checked her credit card 
statements.  
Our investigator agreed that business  Bs involvement broke the DCS  link for the two further 
payments. Mrs Rs point about the first payment being a deposit wasnt  addressed.
Mrs R remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  After the complaint came 
to me for decision, I contacted business B to further clarify their role. In particular, I asked 
why their receipts for the two further  payments referred to business B as being  the one 
responsible for delivering the goods and services.
Business B responded to say that they didnt know why their receipts  stated this. Business  A 
had known one of business  Bs employees  and had approached business B through this 
person. Business B had agreed to act as a payment collection agent while business A was in 
the process of applying  for a credit  facility. All payments were immediately forwarded onto 
business A.
I also asked Mrs R about Tescos offer to refund the first payment. She says this is still 
outstanding.
my provisional decision  
Having considered the complaint I was minded  to reach a different outcome to the 
investigator. So I sent Tesco and Mrs R a provisional decision,  for their comments, in which I 
said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In this case, s.75 is relevant to this complaint and says that, in certain circumstances, 
if Mrs R paid for goods or services on her credit  cards and there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, Tesco can be held responsible.
S.75
S.75 only applies if:
i)There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement of the type that falls within  
s.12(b) or (c); and,
ii) If the debtor (Mrs R) has a claim against the supplier (business A) in respect 
of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If so, then the creditor 
(Tesco) is jointly  and severally  liable  to the debtor.  
S.12(b) applies to:  
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b)  and is made  by 
the creditor under pre-existing  arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
S.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use  credit agreement as a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement:
Ref: DRN53076663to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)  other than 
the creditor
And s.189  says finance  means to wholly or partly, and that financed shall be 
construed accordingly.
The payments in this case  were  made  using Mrs Rs personal  credit cards, which  are 
regulated consumer credit agreements. The purpose of her cards were  to provide her 
with the means  to pay for goods and services. The Court of Appeal in Office  of Fair 
Trading v Lloyds & ors [2006] EWCA Civ 268 (the OFT case)  held that this amounts 
to restricted-use credit given that it is the card issuers agreement to provide the 
credit to the customer that provides  the financial basis for the transaction  with the 
supplier. (Para. 56-60 of the judgment).
For these reasons, Im satisfied that s.12(b) and 11(1)(b) are the applicable 
definitions in this case. And there  are no issues with the first part of s.12(b)  and the 
supplementary definition  in s.11(1)(b). That is to say Mrs Rs complaint relates to a 
restricted use credit agreement.  
So I need to consider the remainder of s.12(b). Tesco have already accepted that 
arrangements, and therefore  a DCS  agreement, existed between themselves and 
business A in relation to the contract  for which Mrs R made the first payment. And 
they accept that there was a breach of contract when business A failed to refund the 
first payment.  So the issues  I need to decide  are: 
(1)Whether, as Mrs R says, the first payment was a deposit  and went towards 
business As agreement under the contract  to refund all three payments. 
Or whether it was just an agreement to refund the first payment itself. (The 
contract issue).
(2)Whether, if the two further payments were the price for a separate business 
agreement with business A, business  Bs involvement with those two 
payments means there were no relevant arrangements between Tesco and 
business A and no DCS link. (The DCS  issue).   
(1)The contract issue
The question here is whether,  on the one hand, the first payment partly financed a 
contract under which business A agreed, amongst  other things, to refund all of 
Mrs Rs payments if they failed to achieve the release of the timeshare. Or whether, 
on the other hand, that debit financed  a contract  under  which business A agreed  to 
refund only the first payment.  I can understand why Tesco have  sought  to 
differentiate between the first payment and the two further payments, given that the 
contract at one point  refers to the first payment as a consultation fee. This is in the 
declaration at the end of the contract  (following clause 6).  
But that reference is followed immediately with a reference  to the remaining 
balance of £8,180 due under the contract, which was the total of the two further 
payments. So I need to look at all terms of the contract in order to decide  what was 
intended by the reference to a consultation fee. In particular, clauses 1(a) and (b) of 
the contract  state:
Ref: DRN530766641a) We have undertaken a detailed fact find with you as to the terms of your 
Timeshare Agreement and have advised you on the most cost-effective method of 
terminating the agreement and how to release  yourself from any future obligations, 
charges or maintenance costs under your Timeshare Agreement.  We have also 
provided you with a written quotation  of our charges for doing this and give an 
estimate of the likely timescale  involved to obtain  the release.
1b) Upon receipt of the Deposit from you for the work required we will then put into 
effect our recommendations and take all steps  necessary to release you from your 
agreement.
The written  quotation  referred to in clause 1(a) is the document  entitled Written 
Quotation for Membership  Release.  This quotation  specified the amounts that Mrs R 
had to pay as follows:
Total Costings: £7,650 + v.a.t
Deposit: £1,000
Balance: £8,180
I think that the terms of the contract  must  be looked  at together with the terms of this 
written quotation, given the reference to this document in clause  1(a). So I think  that 
the reference to the Deposit in clause 1(b) is the amount referred to as the deposit 
in the written quotation (the first payment). And I think that the terms of clause 1(b) 
makes it clear that this deposit was for the entirety  of the work outlined at clause 
1(a).  
For these reasons, I think that Mrs Rs first payment was a deposit  and formed  part of 
the total contract price, which was paid as the consideration for all of business As 
services and promises, including their refund guarantee under clause 6. And the 
reference to a consultation fee at the end of the contract was simply a reference to 
which part of the overall service  the deposit would be attributed to.   
It follows that Mrs R is entitled to a refund of the full contract price. But even if this 
wasnt the case, Id still be minded to conclude that s.75 applies to the two further  
payments because I dont  think that business Bs involvement broke the DCS link. Ill 
explain why.  
(2)The DCS issue
Its important to first identify who the supplier of the goods and services  was. After all, 
its arguable that business B were  part of the contract, given the references  on their 
receipts to them  being  responsible for delivering the goods and services. 
But theres a wealth of evidence  indicating  that business A remained the sole 
supplier throughout.  In particular:
The contract doesnt refer to business  B.
Despite the wording on business  Bs receipts about it being  their responsibility 
to deliver the goods and services, they also referred  to an email address  for a 
point of contact  from business  A for any questions  about  the order.  
The receipts also described the payments  as relating to business As 
services.
Ref: DRN53076665Business A provided Mrs R with an invoice, on their letter  headed paper, for 
the two further  payments and marked it as paid.
Mrs Rs email to business B, following Tescos  initial response,  states that 
she paid the two balance payments to business  A. And she asks what  
business Bs role was in processing those  transactions. This corroborates  her 
testimony to this service that she hadnt  known  about business  Bs 
involvement and she had given her card details to business A only.
So Im satisfied that its more likely than not that business A remained the supplier 
throughout in relation to all three payments. 
As for business  Bs role, their explanation aligns with all of the above evidence  and is 
therefore entirely plausible. So Im satisfied  that their role was limited  to that of a 
payment collection  agent  only. And as part of that role they immediately forwarded 
the two further  payments to business  A.
This means  that in order for s.75 to apply  the DCS link between Tesco,  Mrs R and 
business A had to be present for all three  payments under  the contract. 
The Court of Appeal in the OFT case considered the question  whether, for there to 
be a DCS  agreement, there needed to be arrangements that existed directly  between 
the creditor and the supplier. Or whether indirect  arrangements could be sufficient.  It 
held that, provided  arrangements  existed between a creditor  and a supplier, those 
arrangements didnt need to be made  directly  by, or between, the creditor and the 
supplier. 
The Court of Appeal also held that the definitions in s.187 were not intended to define  
the only type of arrangements that fell within s.12(b).  The word arrangements is 
capable of carrying a broad meaning and in the context of the Act must have been 
deliberately chosen by Parliament with a view to embracing a wide range of different 
commercial structures having  substantially the same effect. So s.187 extended, 
rather than restricted,  the scope  of s 12(b). (Para. 61-66 of the judgment).  
The Court of Appeals focus was instead directed to an analysis of the role of each 
party involved. And whether that impacted an arrangement and the requisite DCS 
link.
Similarly, the High Court in Governor and Company  of the Bank of Scotland v Alfred 
Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583 (the Truman  case) highlighted the need to 
scrutinise the facts  of each case to see whether the nexus between  the supplier and 
the creditor was too tenuous to be described as an arrangement. And in answering 
that, regard had to be had to the broad, loose language of the Act  which was 
intended to be a consumer protection measure.
For all of these reasons, I dont accept  that an indirect relationship between Tesco 
and business  A is fatal to the application of s.75. Instead, the important factor  to 
consider is whether the scope of business  Bs role broke the DCS  link with business 
A. My findings on that are as follows.
There were clearly arrangements between  Tesco  and business B (a card scheme  
merchant). So the question is whether business B extended those arrangements  to 
business A. The Truman  case suggests this can occur where a merchant has 
Ref: DRN53076666arrangements with another business  under  which it agrees  to process  payments  on 
behalf of that business. In this case, I think this is what occurred, given that business 
B immediately forwarded all payments onto business A and so its unlikely that 
business B exercised any material control  over the two further  payments.  It follows  
that its equally unlikely  that business  B had an interest in the money. Nor could they 
be described as a stakeholder. In short, their role appears to have been strictly 
limited to that of a payment  collection  agent  only. 
Given this, I think that business  Bs role and link to business A is sufficiently similar  to 
the situation considered by the High Court in the Truman case. And so I have 
reached the same conclusion that the Judge  did in that case. Namely, I dont think  
business Bs involvement meant that there  was no relevant arrangement  between  
Tesco and business A or that there was a broken  DCS link between Tesco,  Mrs R 
and business  A.
So whether  the first payment  was a deposit  or not, Im minded to conclude  that s.75 
applies regardless. This would make  Tesco  jointly and severally  liable with business 
A for the breach of contract by business A. Namely, the failure to give Mrs R a full 
refund of the total contract  price, as they had agreed to do, as a result of not 
obtaining the release of the timeshare within 12 months.  
For these reasons, I think that a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
Tesco to refund Mrs R the total contract price  of £9,180. If Tesco has already 
refunded the first payment,  then that leaves  an outstanding refund of £8,180.  
Tesco should also pay Mrs R 8% annual  simple interest on the total amount of 
£9,180. This should be calculated from the earliest  opportunity Tesco had to refund 
Mrs R, namely  the date it should have paid her s.75 claim. I think  that Tesco was 
right to initially query the involvement of business  B and to ask Mrs R to provide 
further information on this. So I dont think Tesco should have paid Mrs Rs claim 
straight away. It follows that the earliest point at which Tesco  should have paid 
Mrs Rs claim is when she provided Tesco  with business Bs explanation of the 
extent of their role (this was via an email  in August 2018). 
the response to my provisional  decision
Neither Mrs R nor Tesco had any further  comments to make. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to reach a final decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive seen nothing to 
change my mind so Im upholding  this complaint for the reasons outlined  in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc to: 
Refund Mrs R the total contract price of £9,180  plus 8% annual  simple interest 
calculated from August 2018  up until the date of settlement
Ref: DRN53076667*If Tesco Personal Finance Plc considers it should  deduct income tax from any 8% interest  
element of my award it may do so, but should give Mrs R the necessary certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5307666