K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn) approved lending to her 
when she couldnt  afford it.
background
Miss R entered  into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  for a car in July 2013 
having been declined in the previous month. The agreement was for 48 months with 
repayments of just over £200 each month. The total amount repayable  was around £10,000.
Miss R says that she struggled  to make repayments  throughout the term of the agreement
and was only able to do so by taking  out other loans and by borrowing from friends.
Moneybarn carried out an income and expenditure check in August 2014 as Miss R had
fallen into arrears. Moneybarn said this showed  Miss R had enough disposable income  to
maintain her repayments.
When Miss R had a change to her income  for health and personal issues,  Moneybarn  said
they carried out another income and expenditure assessment with her and determined she
wouldnt be able to maintain her payments  whilst she was sick from work.  Moneybarn said
Miss R was confident  she would still be able to meet her commitments as she was expecting
a large payment.
Miss R continued to fall into arrears  and a default  notice  was sent to her in August 2016.
Moneybarn said Miss R made the necessary  payment  but her account  remained in arrears.
In January 2017, another income and expenditure form was completed and a weekly
payment plan was agreed. But Miss R only made  the first payment so the agreement  was
ended. Miss R wanted to keep her car as she needed it for work. Moneybarn  sought and got
a Consent Order, with a payment plan agreed by the court.
Miss R complained to Moneybarn in late 2017  as she didnt think  that they had done enough
to check she could  afford the repayments before agreeing to the finance. Moneybarn said
they had carried  out their normal credit and affordability checks  which  didnt highlight  any
concerns around  affordability.
Moneybarn also said that Miss R had been provided  with a document which  explained how
the finance agreement would work and that there  was a section  in there which  was designed
for Miss R to think about  whether she should proceed if she had concerns about meeting the
repayments.
Miss R wasnt  happy with Moneybarns response  so one of our investigators looked at her
complaint. The investigator considered whether our service could look at the complaint as
there had been  a court order.  She felt that the court hadnt considered  the affordability of the
finance agreement, which is what Miss R had asked us to consider. So she told Moneybarn
that we were able to look at Miss Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN53944002Our investigator felt that Moneybarn hadnt conducted reasonable checks when assessing
Miss Rs application. She said there were a number of concerning entries on Miss Rs credit
file, in particular  outstanding County  Court Judgements (CCJ),  which Moneybarn would have
seen and which should have prompted  them  to ask Miss R more questions  about her
monthly outgoings. And she felt that had they done  this, Moneybarn would have realised the
lending wasnt affordable.
Moneybarn didnt agree  with the investigator. They said that the information  she had referred
to on Miss Rs credit file may not have  been  seen by them  when Miss Rs application had
been assessed. Moneybarn also said that Miss R having outstanding CCJs wouldnt have
precluded her from being given finance  as their business scope included  offering finance to
those who have lower  credit scores. Moneybarn mentioned that the CCJs were for relatively
small amounts as part of their rationale.
Miss Rs case  was then passed to me for a decision. I issued my provisional findings to both 
parties on 5 December 2019, an extract of which I include below. 
Ill firstly  deal with our jurisdiction to consider Miss Rs complaint as Im aware this 
has been raised by Moneybarn.  Moneybarn  says that the sum payable under the 
agreement was subject  to a Court  Order, which was suspended on the provision that 
Miss R makes monthly  payments of a particular amount. And they also say that if 
Miss R had any dispute on what she owed them, this should have been raised by her 
to the Court.
Miss Rs complaint is about whether  or not the finance agreement  was affordable at 
the outset. This subject  was not, from what I can see, brought before or considered 
by the Court.  So I see no reason why this service should not consider this complaint. 
Miss R isnt complaining  that Moneybarn shouldnt be pursing her for the sums 
payable as agreed by the Court. It is that Moneybarn shouldnt have advanced her 
credit to begin with. I am satisfied that we are able to consider this complaint.
I turn now to the merits of Miss Rs complaint. When Moneybarn assessed  Miss Rs
application for credit, they had to have regard to the relevant  guidance on 
responsible lending at the time.  This was the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) guidance  
on responsible  lending. So I have taken this guidance into consideration.
The OFT guidance  set out that proportionate affordability checks had to be carried 
out by finance providers.  It didnt set out hard and fast rules  of what  these should  
have been. Rather,  it gave guidance  in broader terms, about what may be 
appropriate. This would depend on the particular circumstances of each particular 
case and would take into account factors such as the size of the loan, the amount of 
the repayments, and what the finance  provider knew about Miss R and her 
circumstances. And the guidance set out that finance providers should have  made 
a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower could afford to meet  repayments  in 
a sustainable  manner.
This check should have  been borrower-focussed. This means it wasnt good  enough  
for Moneybarn just to think about how likely  Miss R was to repay the debt  in other 
words, their credit risk. Moneybarn also had to consider whether Miss R could 
sustainably afford to repay the borrowing.
Ref: DRN53944003In Miss Rs case, Moneybarn asked  for details of her income and checked this 
against her payslips. They also looked at information from her credit file, however  
due to the passage of time they no longer  have  a record of this particular check  that 
they can send  to us.
Moneybarn have explained that they wouldnt have extended credit  if the repayments
represented more  than 25% of her income. I note that this clearly formed  part of their 
own lending  criteria and in particular what kind of risk they were  willing  to take on. 
But I dont think this was an adequate  borrower-focussed check  on whether it was 
affordable and sustainable  to Miss R.
As Moneybarn doesnt have  a copy of the credit check they carried  out, its not 
possible for me to say with certainty what they would have seen from this. I have 
though seen a copy of Miss Rs credit file obtained by our investigator and note that 
she had two fairly recent CCJs  against her name at the time of the application.
I think this in itself should  have been enough for Moneybarn to have considered  in 
more detail whether  Miss R was able to afford taking on a further financial 
commitment, rather than simply taking her monthly income into account. I note that 
Moneybarn has said that they possibly would  not have seen these entries because 
Miss Rs credit file was from a different credit  reference agency to the one they used. 
This is of course entirely possible. But its also possible that these entries would have  
been seen by Moneybarn at the time.
Moneybarn has also said that the amounts outstanding under the CCJs werent 
particularly high and so this likely wouldnt have prevented them from accepting Miss 
Rs application. So it seems Moneybarn likely  would have still proceeded with the 
application anyway.
I note that Moneybarn says that their scope is to provide access to affordable  credit  
to customers with lower credit scores. That is of course for Moneybarn  to decide 
rather than our service. However, the key word  here is affordable. Moneybarn still 
had to determine whether or not the proposed finance agreement  was likely to have 
been affordable  based  on what they knew about  Miss Rs circumstances. This was a 
large amount of borrowing  over a long term so it was a big commitment  for Miss R, 
particularly when about 20% of her monthly income would be going  towards  repaying  
this every month.
I think that at the very least, Moneybarn should have been prompted to ask Miss R 
some questions about her monthly outgoings to determine whether  or not she could 
likely have afforded to enter into the finance agreement. I accept that the presence of 
two CCJs doesnt  automatically mean that further lending should  not have been  
granted. However, these were clear  indicators  that Miss R may have  been  struggling 
to pay existing credit commitments  and could  struggle to take more  credit on. 
Moneybarn has pointed  out that the CCJs werent  particularly high value. But, as 
they were recent this ought to have  alerted them  to the possibility that Miss R either 
had very little or no disposable income.  Not only that, Miss R had taken out a number 
of high cost short term loans with other credit providers in the period  of time leading  
up to her application to Moneybarn.
Ref: DRN53944004Moneybarn has said that the credit  file provided by our investigator didnt show that 
this was the case. However, I have seen  from Miss Rs bank  statements at the time 
that this was in fact the case.  Miss R has made complaints about some of this 
lending so its possible, and indeed likely, that these entries have been removed from 
her credit file since 2013. So I cant discount the possibility that Moneybarn  would 
have seen this in 2013.
Its notable also that Moneybarn declined Miss Rs application a month prior to 
accepting it because of information shown on her credit  file. I cant  see that Miss Rs 
credit situation improved in such a short period of time between applications. 
Moneybarn clearly had some initial concerns so this rather lends weight to my view 
that they should have  asked further  questions around the new applications.
I think its likely had Moneybarn asked some  questions  about Miss Rs monthly  
outgoings and her existing commitments, it would have been  apparent that the 
proposed finance  agreement  was not affordable for her. I cant be certain  what 
additional information Moneybarn would have requested at the time. But Ive looked 
at Miss Rs bank statements for the three months  leading up to the application. In the 
absence of any other evidence I think this gives a good indication  of what Moneybarn 
would have most likely discovered had it asked her more questions about  her income 
and expenditure.  From  those statements I can see that a number of sizeable 
payments to high cost short  term lenders  were  due and were  being paid by Miss R.
And from what Ive seen, her existing  commitments were a sizeable proportion of her
monthly income. Its also notable that Miss R took out a significant amount of money 
from a high cost short  term lender  on the day that her application with Moneybarn  
was granted. Moneybarn  of course  may not have known that, but that does give a 
rather valuable insight  into how Miss R was struggling to maintain her finances and 
credit commitments  at that time.
Taking everything into account,  I do not find that Moneybarn  carried out proportionate
checks when assessing Miss Rs application  for credit. I find that had they carried out 
a more proportionate check by asking  her some questions around her monthly 
outgoings and existing commitments, it would have been apparent to Moneybarn  that 
Miss R was not able to afford to enter  into the finance agreement. 
I note Moneybarn has mentioned the factsheet  that accompanied the details about 
the finance agreement which includes a section  for Miss R to think about whether 
she could actually afford the agreement.  However, that does not absolve  Moneybarn 
from their own obligation  to determine  whether Miss R was able to afford  to enter into 
the agreement  and sustainably repay it.
I accept that Miss R wanted  to finance  a car as it was important  for her. However, 
that doesnt mean that everyone  who wants to finance a car should have their 
applications approved. And in this case,  for the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont  think  
it was appropriate  for Moneybarn  to accept the application.
This leaves  to me decide  what a fair remedy should be. Miss R has repaid the 
finance and now owns the car. It wouldnt be reasonable for Moneybarn to refund any 
of the payments Miss R paid towards  the cash price  of the car as she has clearly 
derived benefit  from it. However, I dont believe it reasonable for Moneybarn  to have 
derived any benefit  themselves for approving this application.
Ref: DRN53944005I think a fair solution would be for Moneybarn to refund all interest and charges  paid 
by Miss R towards this agreement from the outset. I will also be directing Moneybarn  
to pay interest on these sums at 8% simple  from the date each amount was paid to 
the date of settlement. Moneybarn should  also remove  any adverse information  it 
recorded on Miss Rs credit file.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 
Limited to:
refund all interest and charges paid by Miss R in respect of the conditional sale
agreement;
pay interest on the above at 8% simple each  year from the date of each payment to
the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Rs credit file in relation to this
agreement.
I invited both parties to reply to what I had said in my provisional decision. Miss R replied 
saying that she agreed  with my provisional findings and decision. Moneybarn  didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still consider my provisional findings  to be fair and reasonable  in the particular 
circumstances. Neither  party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same, for the reasons as set out my provisional decision 
which I have included  above.
Ref: DRN53944006my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Moneybarn No.1 Limited to:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Miss R in respect of the conditional sale
agreement; 
pay interest on the above  at 8% simple each  year from the date of each payment to
the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Rs credit file in relation to this
            agreement.
If Moneybarn  considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold or 
deduct income tax from the interest part of my award, they should tell Miss R how much they 
have taken off. Moneybarn should also give Miss R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2020.  
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5394400