K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Close Brothers  Limited didnt tell him about the fees it charged  on the 
conditional sale agreement he entered into to buy a car.
background
In April 2017 Mr N bought a second  hand car. He funded this with a conditional sale 
agreement which was arranged by the garage. He says he asked  if there were any hidden 
charges and on being told there werent  he signed  the agreement. The agreement  included 
an acceptance fee of £199  and a title transfer fee of £165. He says he wasnt given a copy of 
the agreement. 
Close Brothers rejected  Mr Ns complaint and said that the dealer wasnt  obliged to advise 
him of the fees as these  were set out in the agreement which was available to him. It also 
said the fees charged were in accordance with the agreement. He then brought his 
complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our investigators who didnt  
recommend it be upheld.
He thought the charges  and interest  were  clearly set out in both the pre-contract agreement  
and the agreement itself. Mr N had signed the agreement to confirm he had read and 
accepted these terms and conditions. He added that it was the consumers responsibility  to 
read terms and conditions before signing the agreement.  He said that he couldnt say what  
the dealer had told Mr N, but he believed the information  was presented  to him in a 
sufficiently clear manner.
He noted Mr N had also raised some  concerns  about the interest  calculation  and he thought 
the interest had been calculated annually which was disadvantageous The investigator said 
the agreement  showed that the interest  was front loaded and he couldnt  identify  any further 
interest being added on the relevant statements.
Mr N didnt agree and said that he hadnt  been given  a copy  of the contract  and was 
unaware of its contents. He said the dealer worked  in partnership with the business and any 
failing by him applied to Close Brothers.  He also said he had provided  a handwritten  
signature. 
Close Brothers said it didnt have a handwritten document and provided a copy  of the one it 
said had been  signed electronically by Mr N. It also sent a copy  of a letter it had sent to Mr N 
the day after he signed the agreement  with a copy of that agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr N I find myself in agreement  with the investigator. The 
agreement contains  an electronic signature  which in effect it says that Mr N ticked an 
electronic box. He says he provided  a handwritten  signature, but Close Brothers dont have  
copy of that. However,  the evidence from both parties suggests that he did sign the 
agreement in some form or another  and had the opportunity to read what  he signed.
Ref: DRN54826132He may have relied on what he was told by the dealer, but as I wasnt  present during  the 
sale I cannot say what he was told and whether it was misleading.  I know he believes that he 
was told there were no associated fees,  but I can see these were  outlined on the agreement  
he signed. 
It may be that the dealer  asked him the sign the document without reading it, but I dont  
believe that he was prevented from checking  what he was signing before doing so. I also 
have checked  with Close Brothers and I can see that it sent Mr N a copy of the agreement 
the day after the sale. I appreciate he says he didnt get it, but it was sent to the correct 
address. 
I am also satisfied that the interest  charged by Close Brothers is in line with the agreement.  
Therefore, on balance I cannot safely  conclude that Close  Brothers did anything wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 11 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5482613