K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  sold to 
Mr T in 2002  to protect  a mortgage.  The policy began in 2003. The policy was free for the 
first six months and then cost around £35.64 per month. Mr T says HSBC  UK Bank Plc    
mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit  of £600 for up to 12 months  if Mr T couldnt work 
due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought the policy had been mis-sold. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint was passed to me.
In February 2018  I issued  my provisional  findings  on Mr Ts complaint  and invited both 
parties to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think  about.  A 
copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms  part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold to Mr T. My main 
reasons for this were:
I thought HSBC likely made it clear  that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out  although  I could understand  why he cant remember this 
now.
I thought the policy  was right for Mr T. I noted  that Mr T had a back problem and that 
the PPI excluded cover for pre-existing medical conditions. But Mr T successfully 
claimed for a back problem so I didnt think the exclusion made the policy  unsuitable.
I thought HSBC couldve given clearer information. But even if it had done I still 
thought Mr T wouldve bought the policy.
So I didnt think the policy  was mis-sold.
But HSBC did receive a high level of commission for the sale of the policy.  And itd 
offered to pay back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was above  50% 
of the PPI premium  - and I thought that that offer was fair in this case.
HSBC has said it accepted my provisional findings.
Mr T has responded with some comments and information.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts main point  is that he feels the policy was mis-sold as he was told would not get the 
mortgage without  taking out PPI. Mr Ts partner has said she was witness to this being said 
during the mortgage interview.
Ref: DRN54005592Ive thought about this but the documentary evidence suggests Mr T was made aware  he 
didnt have to take PPI at the time. I could see that Mr T declined other recommendations 
that HSBC made which suggests he was able to decline the PPI if he didnt want it. And the 
PPI remained in force for several years,  if Mr T only bought it because  he was pressured into 
doing so Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage.
I do accept it is possible  things happened  the way Mr T and his partner recall.  But without 
any further evidence  I think it is most  likely Mr T was given a choice  about  the PPI and chose 
to take it out.
Mr Ts partner has said she wasnt allowed to be added to the mortgage because if they 
divorced she would have rights  to the house. But even  if this was said I dont think  it makes a 
difference to how the PPI was sold.
Mr Ts partner has suggested that HSBC  accepted  it mis-sold  the policy and offered a 
payment. But from what Ive seen HSBC has never accepted the PPI sold with the mortgage  
was mis-sold. However it has offered to repay  some  undisclosed commission and I thought 
this was fair.
I can see that Mr T complained about other PPI policies he was sold and HSBC  has upheld  
other complaints. But there are many  different types  of PPI and they were sold in different 
ways. Ive looked at the sale of this PPI policy with the mortgage  in 2002 and I dont think  it 
was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Mr T and his partner have said,  but these points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  findings I find the PPI policy wasnt  
mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to      
Mr T. 
But HSBC  UK Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already offered to do 
this. If it hasnt already  made payment to Mr T it should now do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2018.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
complaint
This complaint is about  a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to Mr T in 
2002 to protect a mortgage.  The policy began  in 2003. The policy was free for the first six months and 
then cost around £35.64 per month.  Mr T says HSBC UK Bank  Plc    mis-sold him the PPI. 
Ref: DRN54005593background
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £600  for up to 12 months if Mr T couldnt  work due to an 
accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought the policy had been mis-sold. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators findings  
so the complaints been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a record of the mortgage interview  that was carried out in August 2002. I can see there must 
have a fairly detailed discussion as there are many notes regarding Mr Ts circumstances  and I can 
see the HSBC  representative also made recommendations around Mr Ts protection  needs.
In the HSBC advisors recommendations theyve advised Mr T to take out the PPI as he had little sick 
pay to fall back on if he became unwell. The HSBC adviser also made  other recommendations such 
as a policy  to protect Mr T in the event  of a critical  illness.
I can see the records note that Mr T accepted the recommendation for the PPI but declined other 
recommendations made, which suggests to me that he was given a choice  about accepting the 
advisors recommendations.
I also note the PPI remained  in place until March 2007.  If Mr T had not wanted the PPI or only took it 
out to get the mortgage Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. For instance after the 
initial six-month free period came to an end. But Ive not seen  any evidence that he did so.
Taking all this into account I think HSBC  likely made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this now.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to 
have had a need for the cover selected.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because Mr T told us he was suffering from 
back pain at the time he took out the PPI. The PPI didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions so the 
adjudicator thought Mr T wouldnt be able to make  a claim if he was off work with back  problems.
But HSBC has shown us evidence  that Mr T did make a successful claim  in January 2006 when he 
was unable to work because of back problems. Mr T received two months benefit  of £1,200.
Mr T again tried to claim for a back  injury  in July 2006 but as he hadnt been off work for less than 30 
days, which  was the policys  waiting period, he couldnt  claim.
And the records show Mr T again contacted HSBC in August 2006 to make a claim for a back injury. 
Forms were  sent out to him but were never returned.
So it seems  to me Mr T was in fact able to make a claim  for back problems and did make one 
successful claim  for this issue. Ive not seen any evidence Mr T had a claim turned down. So I dont 
think Mr T wouldve been affected  by the policy  exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN54005594Mr T told us he would only have  received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work. So his income would 
likely have dropped considerably if he was unable  to work  because  of illness or an accident. The PPI 
policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for any one claim. 
  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
should have told them Mr T about that. Because HSBC didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Mr T has told us the policy didnt fully  cover him as he thought it would. And because it didnt cover 
him he had to go back to work which made his injury worse. This resulted in him losing his home and 
suffering stress.
Ive thought about this but the PPI sold to Mr T does  appear to have fully covered  his mortgage 
repayments. I can see that in 2003 Mr Ts mortgage repayment  was around £500,  whereas the PPI 
paid a monthly benefit of £600. And I can see in January  2006 Mr T made  a claim on the policy  and 
received £1,200, which  was for two months mortgage repayments.  So it looks like the PPI did cover 
the mortgage. So this point doesnt change my decision.
what HSBC needs to do
HSBC has to pay back  to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. HSBC should  also pay back to Mr T any extra interest he paid because  of that.
HSBC should pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC  should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest on 
each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to find the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But HSBC UK Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already offered to do this but its unclear 
if the offer has been  paid.  In response to this provisional  decision I ask HSBC UK Bank Limited and 
Mr T to let us know if its offer has been  paid.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5400559