K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  Mrs Cs 
home insurance claim and cancelled  her policy. Mrs C is supported  in this complaint by 
Mr C, her husband.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2019. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision so I dont  intend to repeat it in full here.  In summary, I said I intended to uphold this 
complaint. I didnt think RSA was entitled  to avoid  Mrs Cs policies from 2014  onwards. I 
explained I intended to recommend RSA reinstate her policies and reconsider her claim. I 
also said I intended to make it pay an additional  £1,500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  by its actions.
I didnt receive a response from Mr and Mrs C. RSA responded  to say:
However, whilst I appreciate this was a genuine and horrific incident, we have 
concerns this was not a random burglary  and they had been  targeted due to the large 
amount of jewellery  in the premises. At the point of sale we do feel the original  
question is clear and specific, had she disclosed more than £40k of jewellery at this 
point we wouldnt have  offered cover  with ourselves. We would have referred her to 
specialist insurance.  She had receipts  totalling  in excess of £40,000 in her 
possession at the time of taking out the policy and although you state our wording 
isnt clear around the wording value, the definition in the English dictionary refers to 
monetary worth, assess the worth or desirability of. 
Therefore, I do feel we have made the correct  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having now reviewed the case  afresh, I 
dont intend to depart from the conclusion  reached in my provisional decision.
RSA has reiterated  its view that the question  Mrs C was asked when she first applied  for 
insurance in 2014 was clear, citing the English  dictionary  definition of the meaning of the 
word value. But this doesnt change my view that the question  she was asked  was unclear. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mrs C was not asked to say what the replacement  
cost of her valuables were  as new, which is I presume what RSA mean by how much theyre 
worth. She was asked to say what  she thought they were worth. This is subjective, as it 
might mean what their second-hand resale  value is or what it would cost to replace them 
new. Or it could  even mean  what Mrs C had paid for them.  I also think  its confusing  because 
she was only asked  to say what valuables that always stay in her home were worth. I think  
this could be taken  to mean it doesnt include items that she takes out or wears out from time 
to time  especially as there was a separate  question  about personal possessions  which  are 
taken out of the home. 
So Im satisfied that Mrs C didnt really appreciate what she was being asked to confirm  
when she was asked  the question about valuables. And this means  I dont think RSA has 
shown she failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation  in 2014. This 
Ref: DRN54915632means there  was no qualifying misrepresentation at this point and  in my opinion  it has no 
right to avoid the policy Mrs C took out in 2014.
RSAs response to my provisional decision doesnt  address  my opinion  that each time Mrs C 
renewed her policy she took out a new consumer insurance contract with RSA.  Under  the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), Mrs C had to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she took out each of these 
contracts. If Mrs C made a misrepresentation, it is then for RSA to show  this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So I remain of the view that RSA was wrong  when it appears  to have 
decided that by avoiding the policy Mrs C took out in 2014, the subsequent policies 
(consumer insurance contracts)  she took out at each renewal ceased to exist as well.
In light of what Ive said,  the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision remain 
unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
 Reinstate all Mrs Cs policies and remove any record of them  being  avoided from its 
records and any central databases;
 Reconsider Mrs Cs claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.  RSA must 
add interest to any amount it pays on the claim in cash at a rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of the loss to the date of actual  payment; and
 Pay Mrs C an additional £1,500 compensation for distress  and inconvenience   in 
addition to the £500 it says its already paid. It should do this within 28 days  of us 
telling it Mrs C has accepted my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it should  add 
simple interest to the compensation at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the date of 
my decision  to the date it makes  payment. 
If RSA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken  off and give her a certificate showing this if 
Mrs C asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54915633provisional decision  9 July 2019
complaint
Mrs C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA)  declined  Mrs Cs home  
insurance claim and cancelled  her policy.  Mrs C is supported in this complaint by Mr C, her husband.
background
In December 2014 Mrs C took out a home insurance policy with RSA through  an intermediary. When  
she did this she was asked  the following question. 
Do you own valuables (jewellery, watches,  works  of art etc) with a combined value of more  
than £40,000?
Her policy was renewed in 2015, 2016 and 2017. And each time, the intermediary sent a covering 
letter enclosing her renewal schedule  from RSA.  In these letters, the intermediary said the schedule 
contained everything Mrs C needed to know  about  cover for her home  and she should  check  it to 
make sure this information  was still correct. 
The renewal schedules and covering letter sent to Mrs C included the following:
Your xxxx xxxxx  Home Insurance renewal is due soon
Thank you for insuring your home  with us for the past year. Your policy  is due for renewal 
soon, and weve enclosed  your new policy documents.
What you need to do
The enclosed  Renewal  Schedule tells you everything you need to know  about your cover for 
your home  and should be kept with your current documents. Please check this to make sure 
the information is still correct.
In your Renewal  Schedule youll find a detailed  breakdown of your premium and whats 
included in your policy, plus any optional  extras you chose last year. Wed like to ensure that 
you have the right level of cover to suit you, so you may wish to check  that your 
circumstances havent  changed as this could  affect your premium. For example if you have 
valuables listed on your policy  which are individually worth less than £3,000, you wont need 
to specify  these.
The policy schedules Mrs C received set out the following:
Policy Section Excess Sum Insured Annual Premium
Valuables Up to £40,000
Single Item Limit £3,000
Specified Valuables
Type Description Sum Insured
Jewellery, Watches diamond  ring £4,500
Jewellery, Watches omega deville  watch £5,000
Jewellery, Watches 18kt omega watch £3,200
Jewellery, Watches diamond  necklace £5,000
Valuables are jewellery (including costume jewellery) articles of/or containing gold, silver  or 
other precious metals,  cameras (which includes video cameras, camcorders and digital 
Ref: DRN54915634cameras), binoculars, watches, furs, paintings  and other works of art, collections of stamps, 
coins and medals.
In the Important Notes section, the schedule  said you must tell us within  30 days or as soon as you 
know about any of the following changes any increase in the value of your items or the rebuilding 
cost of your Buildings. 
The letter went on to say We may re-assess your cover and premiums when  we are told about 
changes in your circumstances.  If you do not tell us about changes  or give us incorrect information, 
the wrong terms may be quoted, we will be entitled to reject payment of a claim  or a payment could 
be reduced. In some circumstances your policy  might be invalid, and you may not be entitled to a 
refund of premium.
One evening in late April 2018, Mr and Mrs Cs home was burgled. The burglars were armed and 
violently attacked Mr and Mrs C, leaving Mr C with serious injuries.  Other  family members  in the home  
were threatened  by the burglars in a very distressing  attack for everyone involved.  A number of items, 
including jewellery, were stolen. Other items were damaged, along with some  parts of the home.
Mrs C notified RSA of the burglary  the next day and it appointed a loss adjuster  to handle their claim. 
In early May,  RSA sent a claims investigator to Mr and Mrs Cs home. A cleaning company  (company 
R) was also sent to Mr and Mrs Cs home to remove some items.  
On 31 May 2018 company R asked RSA if it should keep the removed items  in storage or dispose of 
them. On 15 June 2018, RSA told company R to check with Mrs C and to dispose  of them if she was 
happy with this. It doesnt appear that company  R then got in contact with Mrs C, but it did dispose of 
the items.
  
By July 2018,  RSA had replaced  an outside wooden  gate that was damaged  in the burglary  and 
repaired and replaced door locks. RSA also sent Mr and Mrs C a cheque  for £6,416.94 for cushions, 
throws, a table cloth, rugs, a chandelier and two handbags that had been damaged and removed. In 
the meantime,  Mr and Mrs C provided RSA with receipts for some of the jewellery that was stolen. 
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs C asked for a further update about the furniture removed from their home, 
which had not yet been returned. They were told the furniture needed to be replaced. 
Mr and Mrs C were then told that the value (by which RSA meant the total replacement cost as new) 
of their jewellery was more  than £40,000  and that their damaged furniture would  not be returned to 
them at this stage. 
RSAs claims investigator told Mrs C she needed to come visit her to chat about her jewellery. When 
she visited, Mrs C says she was told her claim was being  investigated  and she was upset by the way 
this was handled.  RSA asked Mrs C to sign a statement  saying her jewellery was worth around 
£160,000, but she believed it was worth £40,000. 
RSA later confirmed in writing that it thought the total cost of replacing the 58 pieces of jewellery 
stolen was around £160,000. Whilst Mrs C was waiting for RSA to decide  what  it was doing with her 
claim, she asked about her furniture. Mrs C was told it couldnt be returned to them as it was blood-
stained, so it had been  destroyed. Unhappy  with how their claim was progressing, Mr and Mrs C 
complained to RSA.
RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs C on 11 October 2018. RSA said it wouldnt  have offered Mrs C cover if it 
had been made aware of the full value of her jewellery.  As a result, RSA avoided the policy from its 
inception in December 2014.  RSA retained all the premiums Mrs C had paid, as it had paid more  than 
this to Mr and Mrs C, as well as paying for some repairs  to their home. RSA said it wouldnt pursue Mr 
and Mrs C for the difference between the premium and the amount it paid out for the claim, given the 
traumatic experience  they had both been through. 
Ref: DRN54915635RSA went  on to say it was aware a number of Mr and Mrs Cs items were disposed of before it 
realised it decided  to avoid their policy. Mr and Mrs C agreed these  items were  damaged beyond 
repair, with no salvage  value. RSA explained it wasnt obliged to replace these items, now its avoided 
Mrs Cs policy. 
RSA said Mrs C had lots of the receipts for the jewellery shed bought, with most of the receipts dating 
between 1990 and 2003. RSA said the original purchase value of the jewellery was £58,282 so Mrs C 
should have been aware her jewellery would cost more than £40,000 to replace. RSA wrote to Mrs C 
again on 16 October 2018.  This time, RSA offered Mrs C £500  in compensation for the delays in 
considering her claim. 
Unhappy with RSAs responses, Mrs C referred her complaint to us. She said RSA acknowledged 
their failure  to declare  the full value of items in their home wasnt deliberate. And she genuinely  
thought her jewellery was worth a lot less than RSA was suggesting. 
Mrs C acknowledged shed specified four pieces  of jewellery when she took out the policy, which had 
a combined replacement cost of £17,700. But she still thought her jewellery was worth less than 
£40,000 overall.  And she disagreed with RSAs  belief that the value of the jewellery stolen was 
around £160,000. Mr and Mrs C said they didnt  understand  why their policy was cancelled,  as they 
only wanted  £40,000 of cover for their valuables  and thought they had unlimited contents  cover. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said RSA acted 
reasonably in cancelling her policy and not seeking to recover what  it had already paid on her claim, 
minus the premiums shed paid. 
Mrs C disagrees.  Shes  said she had no reason  to believe her valuables were worth more than 
£40,000, as the second  hand value of jewellery could be less than she originally  paid for it. Mrs C 
thought £40,000 would be enough to replace  her valuables. Mrs C didnt  understand that the policy  
limit for valuables included the specified valuables either. Mrs C reiterated she was unhappy her 
furniture was removed. She also said she should have been offered  alternative accommodation  after 
the burglary. 
As Mrs C doesnt agree  with our investigator, her case has been referred  to me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
The circumstances that led to this complaint are distressing. And I would  like to say how sorry  I am 
that Mr and Mrs C and their family were the victims  of such a horrific attack.
My role here is to decide whether RSA was entitled  to avoid Mrs Cs policy  and not pay the balance  of 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim under  it for the items stolen and damaged during the burglary.  In reviewing this 
complaint, Ive considered  the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). It sets out the obligations of a consumer when entering into an insurance contract  and the 
remedies available to an insurer if a consumer fails to fulfil their obligations if it can show they made  
what the Act describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Firstly, I should make  it clear  that, in my opinion, each time Mrs C renewed her policy  she took out a 
new consumer insurance contract with RSA. Under  CIDRA, Mrs C had to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when she took out each of these contracts If Mrs C made  a 
misrepresentation it is then for RSA to show this was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this it 
needs to show Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  It also needs to 
show it would not have offered cover to Mrs C at all if she hadnt made the misrepresentation or it 
would have done so on different terms. Once its shown it was a qualifying misrepresentation,  what  it 
is entitled to do will depend  on whether the misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless or careless. 
Ref: DRN54915636And, if it was careless, what it can do will depend on what it would  have done if Mrs C hadnt made  
the misrepresentation. 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim is under the contract (policy) Mrs C took out in 2017.  This means RSA has to 
show that its entitled  to avoid this contract in accordance with CIDRA if its going to use this as a 
reason not to pay the remainder of Mr and Mrs Cs claim. If RSA can show its entitled to avoid the 
contracts Mrs C took out in 2014, 2015 and 2016, but not the one she took out in 2017, it would  be 
obliged to settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim  following  the burglary in accordance  with the policy terms.  I 
dont think it follows that because it is entitled to avoid the policy she took out in 2014,  the rest of the 
consumer contracts she took out cease to exist. 
So, I think RSA was wrong when  it appears to have decided that by avoiding the policy  Mrs C took out 
in 2014, the subsequent policies (consumer insurance contracts)  she took out at each renewal ceased 
to exist as well. 
So the first thing I need  to consider if whether  RSA was entitled to avoid Mrs Cs original policy. I then 
need to decide whether  it was entitled to avoid  her subsequent polices, including  the one she took out 
at renewal in December  2017.
The policy Mrs C took out in 2014
Ive looked at an example of the application Mrs C completed  on-line in 2014 when she took out her 
policy. On this she was asked to confirm what the total value of the valuables (including  jewellery) she 
owned was that always stayed in her home. She had different options and chose the one saying up to 
£40,000. RSA has said she should have known she had valuables worth more  than this amount and 
chosen the option, which said over £40,000. Mrs C has said she genuinely didnt think she had 
jewellery worth over £40,000. And  in any event  was happy with a limit of £40,000 for valuables. 
So RSA needs to show first of all that by answering this question in the way she did Mrs A failed to 
take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation. 
And I dont think its done this. I say this because one of the considerations under CIDRA  is how clear  
the question the consumer was asked was. Mrs C was not asked to say what the replacement  cost of 
her valuables  were as new, which is I presume  what RSA mean by how much theyre worth.  She was 
asked to say what she thought they were  worth. This is subjective, as it might mean  what their second-
hand resale  value is or what it would cost to replace them new. Or it could even mean  what Mrs C had 
paid for them. I also think its confusing because it only asked her to say what valuables that always  
stay in her home were  worth. I think this could  be taken to mean  it doesnt include items that she takes 
out or wears  out from time to time  especially as there is a separate  question  about personal  
possessions which are taken out of the home. 
So Im satisfied that Mrs C didnt really appreciate what she was being asked to confirm when  she was 
asked this question. And this means I dont think RSA has shown  she failed to take reasonable care to 
make a misrepresentation in 2014. This means there was no qualifying misrepresentation at this point 
and  in my opinion  it has no right to avoid  the policy  Mrs C took out in 2014.
The policies Mrs C took out between 2015-2017
As I mentioned in the background to this decision, the intermediary wrote to Mrs C ahead of her policy 
renewals in December 2015-2017. All the policy documentation and renewal  documents the 
documentation Mrs C received were  provided  by the intermediary. I think the intermediary  did this on 
behalf of RSA,  as it seems  to have provided  everything to do with the policy  and controlled the 
process when  the policy was taken out and at all the subsequent renewals.
The policy schedules Mrs C was sent,  which I quoted in the background  to this decision, specified Mrs 
C had valuables cover  up to £40,000. I dont think it was clear on the schedules that the valuables 
sum insured  included  the specified valuables, which were set out in its own separate section with 
Ref: DRN54915637separate sum insured values listed. Mrs C has said she didnt understand specified valuables  were 
included in the total sum insured of £40,000.  I think a reasonable person would view the valuables  
and specified valuables as separate, given  how these  are presented on the policy  schedule.
In any event, there  was no reference on the schedules  to the fact that the policy  had been provided 
based on the fact that Mrs C didnt own valuables  that would cost more  than £40,000 to replace as 
new. Mrs C was asked in a covering letter to let RSA know of any changes to her circumstances. And 
I accept if she didnt  let RSA know about changes in certain circumstances when renewing her policy 
or that information it currently  held about her was wrong, she could be said to have made  a 
misrepresentation.
But RSA has to show  she made a qualifying misrepresentation when Mrs C renewed her policy  in 
2015, 2016 and 2017. And to do this it has to show that by not letting it know her circumstances had 
changed or the information  it was basing her policy on was incorrected she failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. But, there was nothing  in the documentation Mrs C was 
provided with to suggest she needed to let RSA know if the total value of her valuables  items was 
more than £40,000, Therefore,  I do not consider Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation on this issue when she renewed her policy in 2015,  2016 and 2017.  RSA didnt 
even define what it meant when it referred to Valuables up to £40,000  in the schedule. I presume  it 
meant with a replacement cost as new of up to £40,000,  but it didnt say this or explain  this in the 
renewal documentation or elsewhere  as far as I can see.
I appreciate the important notes section on the schedule said Mrs C must communicate  any increase 
in the value  of your items.  But I dont think this was clear enough  for Mrs C to realise she needed 
to let RSA know that her valuables would  cost more than £40,000 to replace.  
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think RSA has shown Mrs C made  qualifying 
misrepresentations when she renewed  her policy  in 2015, 2016  and 2017 and this means  its not is 
entitled to avoid any of the polices  (consumer  contracts). 
I think  part of the fair and reasonable outcome  to her complaint is for RSA to deal with her claim 
(which was in the 2017-18  policy year)  in accordance with the policy  terms.  This will of course mean  
any policy limits will apply.  If it settles any further part of the claim  in cash, it should pay interest on the 
amount due in line with our normal approach and at our normal rate of 8% from the date of the 
burglary to the date of actual, as Mr and Mrs C have  been  without this money. 
the handling of Mrs Cs claim
RSA has already paid Mrs C £500 compensation for the delay in considering her claim. It took RSA 
around two months  to decline Mrs Cs claim from the time it first had concerns  about  the value  of her 
jewellery. But  as Ive explained  I dont think RSA was right to avoid Mrs Cs policy.  And I dont 
think it properly considered whether Mrs C had made a qualifying misrepresentation  when she 
renewed her policy in 2017.  As Ive already  mentioned,  RSA seems to have assumed  that because  it 
was avoiding the original  policy she took out in 2014, it was entitled to avoid the 2017 policy  as well. It 
also does not seem to have  appreciated  the importance of asking clear  questions and making it clear  
at renewal exactly what it needed to know. 
And its decision  to avoid four policies  and turn down  Mrs Cs claim under her 2017 policy on top of the 
very traumatic experience  Mr and Mrs C had already  gone  through has clearly caused them  a very 
significant amount of distress and inconvenience.   
The inventory of items removed from Mr and Mrs Cs home said it would be agreed within seven days 
whether the items removed would be cleaned  and returned or disposed  of and replaced  but this 
didnt happen. Its also not clear whether company R actually contacted  Mrs C to check she was 
happy for the items to be disposed  of. 
Ref: DRN54915638Mr and Mrs C say the blood-stained  items  (the antique  chaise lounge, dining chairs and sofas)  could 
have been cleaned and repaired. The damaged bureau desk  could also have been repaired. Mrs C 
says that she was never told the sofas couldnt be salvaged and had been destroyed. So it seems 
unlikely Mrs C was asked whether she wanted her possessions to be disposed of by company R, 
given Mrs C was still asking RSA about the items in July 2018. RSA appointed company R to manage 
this aspect of the claim and is responsible for its actions. Its clear the disposal of the furniture was not 
handled well and caused  Mr and Mrs C a considerable  deal of distress as well as inconvenience in 
missing key items of furniture, such as her sofas. And this has also meant Mr and Mrs C having  to live 
in a home without sufficient  furniture  for a long period of time, with the constant reminder of the 
burglary  and this would all have caused Mr and Mrs C even more distress  and inconvenience. 
Overall, I think  RSAs  very poor handling of this whole matter has caused Mr and Mrs C severe 
distress and inconvenience  and this warrants a very substantial  compensation  payment. It is of 
course very difficult to put a financial amount on this, but I think a payment of £2,000 in total is 
appropriate. So Im intending  to tell RSA to pay an additional £1,500 on top of what RSA has already 
paid for the delays on their claim. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this complaint and require Royal  & Sun Alliance  
Insurance Plc to:
 reconsider  Mrs Cs claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.  RSA must add interest 
to the compensation at a rate of 8% per year from the date of the loss to the date of actual 
payment. 
 pay Mrs C an additional £1,500 compensation for the reasons explained  above  and it 
should do this within 28 days  of us telling  it Mrs C has accepted my final decision. If it pays  
later than this, it should add simple  interest to the compensation at a rate of 8% per year,  
from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment. 
If RSA considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mrs C how much its taken off and give her a certificate showing  this if Mrs C asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate. 
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5491563