K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about poor customer service  by British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) after 
he called  on it under his home emergency  insurance  policy  when he had a gas leak at his 
house.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 September  2019, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr M said he had no further comments.  BGI responded to say, in summary, that:
its engineer had acted correctly in trying to locate and fix the leak.  It didnt agree any 
confusion was caused during his visit;
its service  manager said he had twice tried to contact Mr M, and had left a message 
on Mr Ms voicemail, and it had no reason to doubt  him; and
the only thing  BGI got wrong was sending a demand for an excess  payment that 
wasnt due.
It thought the £50 it had already offered  was fair and reasonable compensation, and didnt  
agree that it should pay anything more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments BGI made.  However I still think BGIs engineer could 
have done more to explain to Mr M why the required repairs  werent covered by the policy 
terms (which he didnt  understand), or arrange for someone else at BGI to do so. And Mr M 
disputes that BGIs service manager called  him back.
So I remain  of the view that fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience  BGI 
caused Mr M is that in addition to the £50 it has already paid him BGI should pay Mr M a 
further £100.
my final decision
My decision  is that I order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M a further  £100,  in 
addition to what it has already agreed to pay him, for the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51324822_________________________________________________________________________
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 19 SEPTEMBER 2019
complaint
Mr M complains about  poor customer  service by British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) after he called 
on it under his home emergency insurance policy when he had a gas leak at his house.
background
Mr M had a home emergency insurance  policy  with BGI. In August 2018 there was a smell of gas at 
his house so he called  on BGI. 
Ref: DRN51324823BGIs engineer came  the same day. The gas pipes were concealed within  box work, and under 
flooring. The engineer asked  Mr M to open the box work, but no leak was found  in those pipes. He 
asked Mr M to remove the flooring and skirting boards  so he could access the other pipes. He said he 
would return the next day when this had been done.
Mr M did so, and the engineer came  back the next afternoon. When  he saw the gas pipe,  he said it 
wasnt of a standard acceptable to BGI. It wasnt properly supported throughout its length and used 
compression joints which werent accessible. He said the pipe would have to be replaced. And 
because the pipework had been in place,  but hidden, when Mr M first took out his policy and BGI 
inspected his system, Mr M would have to pay for this work.
The engineer told him the cost would be in the region of £1,300.  Mr M arranged for another  gas 
engineer to install a replacement pipe. However he was left with flooring and skirting boards damaged 
by being removed.  He didnt think  this needed to have happened because a replacement pipe could  
have been run outside  his house.
Mr M said he and his family had been without heating and hot water for 7 days until his engineer 
rectified the fault. BGI charged him a £60 excess on his policy and threatened  him with debt collectors  
if he didnt pay this. He thought the work  and reinstatement  should  have been covered by his policy. 
So he complained to BGI who said, in summary:
it had acted reasonably in trying to locate the gas leak so it could be mended.  It wouldnt 
normally suggest rerunning  a pipe as a first solution;
its engineer  had said access to the pipe was needed, and Mr M agreed to take up the 
flooring. Under the policy  terms  BGI wasnt responsible for restoring floor coverings;
when this was done, the gas leak couldnt be eliminated. So a replacement  pipe was needed;
the engineer  found the pipe hadnt been installed correctly, which  happened before the policy 
began. Under the policy terms this was classed as a pre-existing/design fault for which BGI 
wasnt responsible,  and which couldnt reasonably have been discovered on BGIs first 
inspection visit; so the engineer correctly told Mr M that he would have to pay for the work to 
be done;
it didnt accept it was responsible for the time Mr M and his family were without heating and 
hot water because its engineer offered to repair the fault the day after he found  the faulty 
pipework;
it offered a goodwill payment of £50 because of delay in providing  a quote, and 
miscommunication with its service manager, and the distress this caused;  and
it agreed the £60 excess should not have been charged as the repair  wasnt completed and 
refunded this.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with BGIs response and complained to us. He said,  in summary, that:
he was unhappy that he had to open his box work  and take up his flooring, but BGI wouldnt 
meet the cost of making this good;
thought if  there was difficulty  in getting access to pipework that BGI should have rerouted  the 
pipework at the outset;
although BGI said the problem was the way the pipework was installed, it had acknowledged 
that it didnt find any leaks in the compression joints; and 
he thought BGI should compensate him for the stress  he and his family  had suffered.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that as there 
was a gas leak,  and given the consequences of not trying to locate this, BGIs engineer hadnt acted  
unreasonably in trying to find the source of the leak.
BGI was entitled to say Mr M needed to provide access to the pipework. Whether he did this himself 
or employed a builder  to do so, she couldnt say that damage  to the box work, skirtings and flooring 
would have been avoided. And under the policy  terms BGI wasnt responsible for making this good.
Ref: DRN51324824Once the pipework  was exposed,  BGI wasnt responsible for fitting a replacement  pipe under the 
policy. She quoted a policy  term which said:
repairs or a replacement of your gas meter, gas pipework or any gas appliance(s) is not included 
under the policy terms.
Although BGI didnt give him a written quote for the work required, it gave him a verbal estimate, but 
Mr M then said he would  employ his own contractor.
BGIs service manager didnt call back Mr M, but the adjudicator thought  the £50 BGI had paid was 
reasonable compensation  for this.
Mr M received two letters from BGI charging him a £60 excess under  his policy, and warning his 
details would be passed on to a debt collection agency if this wasnt paid.  This caused   Mr M upset, 
and he paid the charge  to avoid further action. BGI had acknowledged he shouldnt  have been 
charged this as it didnt complete the repair, and had refunded the charge.
The adjudicator thought BGI should pay Mr M a further £150, in addition  to the £50 it had already paid 
him, as compensation  for the three days Mr M and his family were left without heating and hot water 
before he decided to use his own engineer, and for the upset caused  by chasing  him for the excess it 
wrongly charged him. She also said it should  pay him interest on the £60 from the date he paid it until 
it was refunded.
BGI didnt accept the adjudicators recommendation. It said its initial visit was on 9 August 2018, when 
its engineer said he would need access to the pipework under the flooring.  He returned the next day 
and established the pipework had been fitted  incorrectly. As this was a pre-existing fault he told Mr M 
the repair  would be chargeable, and gave a verbal quote for the remedial work. It said the quote was 
given on 11 August 2018.  However Mr M told the engineer he would instruct  his own engineer to do 
the work.
On the basis of this timeframe, BGI didnt agree  it was responsible for causing significant distress and 
inconvenience. It had apologised for its mistake in relation to the excess charge and had refunded 
this. It had paid Mr M £50 as compensation for the missed call backs, and didnt  believe the 
suggested further compensation  of £150 was justified.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that:
BGIs  engineer told him he had to lift the flooring.  If the engineer  had said BGI would arrange 
for a builder or carpenter to do this Mr M wouldnt have attempted  this and the likelihood of 
damage would have  been less;
the whole length of the pipework wasnt actually exposed, but no leaks were found on the 
pipework and compression joints that were  exposed.  So it didnt seem reasonable for BGI to 
say there was a pre-existing  fault;  and
if the engineer  had told him at the outset  that access to the pipework  couldnt be gained, then 
fitting a new pipe would  have been  covered under the terms  of his policy.
As neither  party agreed with the adjudicators recommendation, this complaint has been passed to me 
to issue  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN51324825BGI has explained that when a gas leak was reported it would always first try to locate the source of 
the repair  and repair it. It wouldnt initially consider rerouting the gas pipe as this isnt a straightforward 
job, and isnt something that can be done by every engineer due to the equipment thats needed.
Under the policy terms and conditions BGI isnt responsible for restoring flooring and woodwork to its 
original condition,  only for filling in holes and leaving  a level surface. So I think BGIs  engineer acted  
reasonably in asking Mr M to open the box work  and lift the flooring to provide access to the pipework.
Mr M could have employed a builder or carpenter to do this so as to minimise the damage caused. 
But he chose to do this himself. I dont think BGIs engineer is at fault for not suggesting  to Mr M that 
he consider employing a builder or carpenter. Once the pipework was exposed, BGIs engineer saw 
that it hadnt  been installed  to a standard that BGI requires before it will accept it for a policy.
We think its reasonable  that an insurer can tell a customer  what risks it will insure under  the policy, 
and what risks wont be covered. BGI explains  in the policy terms that it wont be responsible for pre-
existing faults. The underfloor pipework wasnt of the standard  BGI required because  it wasnt 
supported adequately throughout its length and used compression joints which were  concealed under 
the floorboards.
BGI checked the system when Mr M first took out the policy to identify any faults that would prevent 
the system being accepted for cover. But the faulty pipe was hidden  under the floorboards,  and only 
became apparent when the leak arose and the flooring  was taken up. 
At that stage I think  BGI was entitled to say that the faulty pipe wasnt covered by the policy. It was 
willing to carry out a repair  to the system if Mr M paid separately  for this. However he declined this 
offer and arranged for his own engineer  to carry out the repair.
Mr M disputes that there was any fault with the pipe because BGIs engineer didnt find any leak in the 
part of the pipe and its compression joints that was exposed. However  the whole  length of the pipe 
wasnt exposed. Im satisfied on the evidence  that there was a leak somewhere  along  the length  of 
the pipe. And the nature of the pipe meant that BGI was entitled to say it wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr M says that if BGIs engineer had told him at the outset that access  couldnt  be obtained, installing  
a new pipe would have been covered under the policy terms. The adjudicator said this wasnt the 
case and pointed to the policy term that Ive quoted above. I think the adjudicator  was wrong on this 
point. The term she quoted appears under a section of the policy booklet dealing with service and 
inspection products  and isnt part of Mr Ms insurance  policy.
However the fact that the pipework didnt  meet BGIs required standard  means that BGI had no 
obligation to meet the cost of the repair under the policy terms  whenever the rerouting of the pipe was 
carried out.
I understand that Mr M and his family were  without gas and heating for some time,  and that the whole 
episode caused  them  distress and inconvenience.  However I think  BGI responded reasonably from 
the time it was notified  of the leak on 9 August 2018 until Mr M decided  on 11 August 2018 that he 
wouldnt accept the price BGI had quoted him, and arranged  to have the repair  done by his own 
engineer.
I do think BGI was at fault in three respects, which  caused upset  to Mr M:
Mr M was clearly  confused by the policy terms and in particular why BGI wouldnt carry out 
the repair.  I think BGIs engineer could  have done more to explain the policy terms to Mr M, or 
refer him to someone else who could have done so;
BGIs  service manager failed  to call back Mr M when he should  have; and
BGI wrongly charged Mr M a £60 policy  excess and threatened him with debt collectors.
Ref: DRN51324826BGI has apologised for, and repaid, the £60 policy  excess, and has paid Mr M compensation  of £50 
for the call back failure. I think fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr M is 
that in addition to this BGI should pay Mr M a further £100.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr M or from BGI by 3 October 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to order 
British Gas Insurance Limited  to pay Mr M a further  £100, in addition to what it has already agreed to 
pay him, for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5132482