K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny),  irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr F says the loans were unaffordable  for him and prevented him from meeting his 
essential living expenses.
background
This complaint is about four short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr F between  June and 
December 2015.  Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 28/06/2015 09/07/2015 9 £1,500.00 £332.08
2 10/07/2015 29/07/2015 14    £800.00 £108.65
3 31/07/2015 26/10/2015 14 £1,500.00 £210.02
4 22/12/2015 10/04/2017 14    £300.00   £42.86
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Fs complaint and thought that none of lending should have been 
given because of the cost of the repayment when compared to Mr Fs monthly income.  
Sunny disagreed but did offer redress for loan four and was willing  to write off the amount 
still outstanding  of £105.40.  We put the offer to Mr F, but he didnt accept it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN50739302the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, he didnt think any of the lending  should have been given to 
Mr F. At loan one, the repayments  on the borrowing of £1,500 were a significant  percentage 
of Mr Fs monthly income  and Sunny was aware  of this. And that was before taking 
account of Mr Fs essential  monthly outgoings. So, I agree  with the adjudicator  that it was 
more likely than not that this was an indication that the borrowing was unaffordable  for Mr F.
Sunny has commented  that Mr F chose to repay  his borrowing  early.  And that this would  
reduce the amount of interest Mr F was being charged.  Loan  one was due to be repaid over 
nine months, but Mr F repaid it less than two weeks after it had been  taken. But rather  than 
just saving Mr F interest charges, it could equally have been  an indication that Mr F was 
struggling to manage  his personal finances.  
And I note there was a quick uptake in reborrowing  once borrowing was repaid. Loan two 
was taken the day after loan one was repaid  and loan three was taken two days after loan 
two was repaid.  So, I would  question  why someone  would repay a loan early only to take 
further borrowing  immediately afterwards. 
Loans one to three were all taken within four weeks. Again, a further  suggestion that Mr F 
wasnt managing  his finances effectively  and that his financial circumstances were rather  
chaotic.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do 
I understand there is an outstanding balance  on loan four. If this is the case  and the 
outstanding balance due on Mr Fs loan four has been transferred to a third party,  Sunny 
Ref: DRN50739303should buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following  is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr F which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld  outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made  by Mr F as though they had been repayments  
of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results  in Mr F having made  overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus,  then the surplus should  be paid to Mr F. However,  if there is still 
an outstanding  balance then Sunny should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr F. 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the 
borrowing.
                                                                                                                               
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr F still has an outstanding  balance  due, then Sunny should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr F in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr F fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Fs complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50739304
Ref: DRN5073930