K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about a personal loan Everyday  Lending  Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided  to him. He says that it wasnt responsible to lend to him because of the 
level of unpaid debt that he already had.
background
Everyday Loans  provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 in November  2016.  The loan had 
an APR of 249.5% and had a three-year term. This meant that the total charge for the credit 
was £3,626.32; the total amount to be repaid was £5,6262.32 and the monthly  instalments 
were £234.43. 
When it investigated Mr Ps complaint, Everyday Loans didnt think it had done anything 
wrong or had acted  unfairly when providing  Mr P with his loan. Mr P was dissatisfied with 
this and referred his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators  then looked  at Mr Ps 
complaint. He thought that Everyday  Loans had unfairly provided this loan to Mr P and so 
upheld this complaint.  
Everyday Loans  didnt accept our adjudicators assessment. As Everyday Loans disagreed 
with our adjudicator  the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
the regulatory and legal framework
Everyday Loans  was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
throughout the period  it lent to Mr P. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms 
are required  to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Everyday Loans. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. Its clear there is a 
high degree of alignment between the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT)  Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) first published in March 2010  and the rules  set out in CONC 5. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Ref: DRN50215292Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN50215293(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  industry  practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that 
Mr P would be able to repay in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr P wouldve been  able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday Loans did not act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr P 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN50215294Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Everyday Loans lent to Mr P required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr P could  afford  to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.
The affordability check should have been  borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr P. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr P himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check will more likely  than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Its my understanding that Mr P was asked to provide details  of his monthly income. Ive also 
seen that Everyday Loans carried out a credit  check. The information provided  also indicates 
that Everyday Loans  was told Mr P was living with his parents and paying £100  a month 
board. And it assumed  that Mr P would use 35% of his monthly income to pay for living  
expenses. 
Ref: DRN50215295The income and expenditure assessment provided  suggested Mr P would have a remaining 
monthly disposable income of £820.99  after the payments for this loan were made. Everyday 
Loans says that its credit  checks showed  a number  of payday loans and an overdraft. 
Ive carefully thought  about the checks Everyday Loans says it carried out.
I think that Everyday Loans  ought  fairly  and reasonably to have queried why Mr P needed to 
borrow £2000 at an APR approaching 250%  and also why he owed a significant  amount to 
a number of short-term lenders - and repay it over two years  if he genuinely had more than 
£1000 each month (excluding the payments to this loan)  in disposable income  available to 
him. 
Im mindful that CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality  of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation. Everyday  Loans will have been aware of Mr Ps history of 
payday loans  before he took either of these loans. 
So Everyday Loans ought to have  been  aware that Mr Ps financial situation suggested that 
hed developed a reliance  on expensive  credit and this ought to have played  a part in 
determining whether any further borrowing was sustainable. Yet I cant see that Everyday 
Loans did do this. Instead it proceeded with this application on the basis of estimated living  
expenses and a wholly unreasonable  monthly  disposable income, given the circumstances.  
Im also surprised that Everyday Loans felt the need  to estimate Mr Ps living expenses 
when it appears to have  had his bank statements.
So to sum up, Im concerned  that Everyday Loans checks for Mr P were based on an 
estimate, which any reasonable  assessment  of the information to hand ought to have alerted 
it to the fact that it was at best overoptimistic and at worst wholly inaccurate.  And I think  that 
Everyday Loans  decision to proceed with Mr Ps application on this basis  meant that it didnt  
complete reasonable or proportionate checks for Mr Ps loan.
Would proportionate checks on these loans have indicated to Everyday Loans that Mr P 
would have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Everyday Loans that it was unfair to give this loan to Mr P, given his 
financial circumstances at the time. Mr P has provided us with evidence of his financial 
circumstances at the time he applied for this loan.
Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something  
shows up in the information Mr P has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks Everyday Loans mightve carried out. But in the absence  of anything else from 
Everyday Loans  showing what  steps  it took to verify the information  provided (and how it 
interpreted it), I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Ps financial circumstances were likely  to have been at the time. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Ps provided and Ive also thought  about  
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mr P was in a position to 
sustainably repay  this loan. 
Ref: DRN50215296I think that itd be helpful  for me to start by explaining that Everyday Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr P could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  Of course  the loan 
payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that if a lender  realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  
their repayments without borrowing further.   
I think this is important because the information Ive seen indicates  that Mr P had significant 
debts with a number of existing creditors. Its also clear that that Mr P was gambling 
significant sums of money. And his ability to make his payments was in large part dependent  
on his success as a gambler.
Having carefully considered everything, I think there  was little reasonable prospect of Mr P 
being able to make his payments without  undue difficulty or borrowing further.  And as I think  
that proportionate and reasonable checks would  have shown Everyday Loans all of this, it 
follows that I think proportionate and reasonable checks wouldve alerted it to the fact that  
Mr P wouldnt have  been able to sustainably  make the repayments to these loans.  
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having carefully thought  about everything, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on pages 
three and four of this decision, I think that Everyday Loans  unfairly  and unreasonably 
provided Mr P with his loan. As Mr P ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest  
and charges on loan he shouldnt have  been  given, I think  that he lost out because  of what  
Everyday Loans  did wrong. 
So I think that Everyday  Loans now needs  to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr P.
Having carefully considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for Everyday  Loans to put things  right in the following 
way:
remove all interest and charges added to Mr Ps loan from the outset.  The payments 
Mr P has made should then be applied to the new starting balance   this means  that 
Mr P shouldnt  pay anymore than £2000.00. If Mr P has already repaid more than the 
amount he was lent the extra  should be treated as overpayments  and refunded to 
him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, should there be any, from 
the date they were  paid by Mr P, if they were, to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN50215297remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file as a result  of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans  must  give Mr P a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Id also remind Everyday  Loans of its obligations  to treat Mr P positively and sympathetically 
should an outstanding balance remain after all adjustments have been made, and it be the 
case that hes experiencing financial difficulty.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Everyday  Lending Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5021529