K820x#14complaint
Mrs W and the estate  of Mr W have  complained  about Sainsburys Bank Plcs decision to
approve a loan in 2015.  Mrs W is also unhappy  with the treatment shes received after her
husband died.
background
I issued by provisional decision on this case on 12 December 2019, which is attached  and 
forms part of my final decision. In this I explained I why intended to not uphold  Mrs Ws 
complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information  or comments  theyd 
like me to consider  before I made my final decision.
responses
Sainsburys said it accepted the findings of my provisional decision.
Mrs Ws daughter,  acting  as her representative, made some further comments. She said she 
still didnt feel Sainsburys attempted to help Mrs Ws situation  by continuing to charge 
interest until the default was applied. So, she felt Mrs Ws only option was to accept the 
default which she didnt  want  to do.
She also suggested that Sainsburys should implement a process where discretion could be 
placed on an account when a bereavement  happens.
Because of this, she suggested that Sainsburys should  refund the interest and any late 
payment fees that were charged to the account  before it defaulted  as a gesture of good  will 
before mutually  agreeing an affordable repayment plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont find myself 
changing my previous  conclusions.
I understand that Mrs W is unhappy  that additional interest was applied  when she couldnt 
pay the originally  agreed  monthly payment. Ive seen no evidence that any late payment fees 
were charged. So, she doesnt think Sainsburys attempted to help her situation.
But I think they have.  They  agreed  to a repayment  plan to recognise Mrs Ws situation and 
continued to operate the account as normal, allowing her an opportunity to pay off the loan 
without defaulting  the account  as she requested. So, with the account operating as normal, I 
think they were fair to charge  additional interest  in line with the terms of the loan agreement 
which states We also charge you interest on all other money due to us under this 
agreement. This includes unpaid  interest and expenses. 
Mrs W has also suggested Sainsburys should  look to implement a process  where discretion 
can be applied when  theres been  a bereavement.  But its not the role of this office  to tell 
Sainsburys or any other financial institution what policies they should implement. Instead, 
we ensure theyve  followed  the policies they have  in place correctly and fairly. 
Ref: DRN58812842The terms and conditions  of the loan agreement explains If this agreement  is a joint account 
these conditions apply  to both of you together or either of you on your own.  For example, if 
you owe use money we can claim it back from either  of you. If one of you dies,  your estate 
will become  responsible for repayment of the loan along with the survivor of you.  So, I think 
Sainsburys have followed the terms of their policy fairly on this occasion. That isnt to say I 
dont understand  the stress  Mrs W would have felt needing to maintain a joint loan on her 
own with a reduce  income.
For these reasons, I dont  think  it would  be fair for me to decide that Sainsburys should 
refund the additional interest  that accrued on the account. I understand this has been  a 
difficult situation for Mrs W and this isnt the answer  she wanted. But I dont  think  Sainsburys 
have acted either unfairly or unreasonably,  so I dont  think  they need to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about 
Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ref: DRN58812843Mrs W and the estate  of Mr W have  complained  about Sainsburys Bank Plcs decision to 
approve a loan in 2015.  Mrs W is also unhappy  with the treatment shes received after her 
husband died.
background
Mr W was turned down for a loan with Sainsburys in 2011. Mr and Mrs W were successful in 
applying for a joint loan in 2015 and made the agreed payments up until Mr Ws passing in 
early 2018.
Mrs Ws daughter  was appointed executor of Mr Ws estate. She wrote to Sainsburys to 
make them aware of Mr Ws passing  and asked for the account to be closed due to the 
financial situation Mrs W now found  herself in.
Sainsburys didnt agree to this but agreed  to a repayment plan of £50 a month. This was 
increased twice over the next year, to £150  and then £200  a month due to changes in Mrs 
Ws financial situation. All three  amounts were  less than the monthly payment agreed when 
the loan was approved. Because of this, the loan continued to build  arrears.  In January 
2019, Sainsburys sent a default  notice to Mrs W.
Mrs W has been represented by her daughter when complaining to Sainsburys. She said 
Sainsburys were irresponsible when  approving  the loan as Mr Ws income  information  was 
inaccurate. So, Mrs W shouldnt be liable for the remaining amount. Shes also said 
Sainsburys have pressured Mrs W into paying the outstanding arrears despite  knowing this 
isnt possible.  This has caused Mrs W to worry which has impacted her wellbeing during a 
difficult time.
Sainsburys said they completed all the necessary checks before approving the loan. They 
said Mr W provided his income and expenditure information so they were  reasonable to 
assume it was correct. They also said they acted  fairly when issuing the default  as the 
account had been in arrears for a period  of time and Mrs W was made aware  that a default  
was a possibility.  Mrs W was unhappy with this response,  so she referred her complaint to 
us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld  it. He said he didnt think Sainsburys  
had been irresponsible when approving the loan.  But he thought  theyd acted unfairly when 
issuing a default notice without speaking  to Mrs W or her daughter  first. So, he thought 
Sainsburys should pay Mrs W £200  to recognise the worry this caused. Mrs Ws daughter  
accepted this view on Mrs Ws behalf.
Sainsburys disagreed.  They  said the default  process was automatic and that Mrs W and her 
daughter were aware of the potential default.  So, they thought  it was unreasonable to expect  
them to make a manual  call to explain  the notice was going  to be sent. They also said theyd 
assess the current £200 payment with Mrs W if this was affecting  her financial situation. As 
Sainsburys disagreed,  the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN58812844Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
think the complaint  should be held and Ill explain why.
Affordability of the loan
Ive first considered whether Sainsburys were  reasonable to approve the loan in 2015. Im 
aware Mrs W and her daughter believe Sainsburys didnt do enough to check  the loan was 
affordable and that the income  information was correct.
Ive seen that Mr W had an application  for credit declined in 2011 and Mrs W thinks  this 
shows the application in 2015  shouldnt have been  approved. But Sainsburys havent  been 
able to provide  the information  about  this application due to the length of the time since  it 
was made.  Theyve  said their lending policy changes frequently. This isnt unusual within the 
industry and I dont think it would be fair me to decide that Sainsburys shouldve  considered  
the rejection from four years previously.  So, Ive concentrated on the application in 2015 and 
the information Sainsburys had access to at that time.
Ive seen the application was for a joint consolidation loan of £13,240. In the application, it 
states Mr and Mrs Ws joint monthly  income  was £2,800,  with £2,426.67 of this amount 
coming from Mr W. Sainsburys processed the loan application on this basis.  Ive also seen 
the terms and conditions that were  included alongside the loan agreement. They  show total 
monthly income for the application as £2,800 and say The following information was 
provided by you in support of your application. We have relied on this in agreeing to enter 
into the loan with you.
Both Mr and Mrs W signed  the loan agreement, agreeing to the terms and conditions. By 
doing so, they agreed that the income information was correct.  Because  of this, I think 
Sainsburys were entitled to trust that their income was £2,800 and I wouldnt have expected  
them to question this further. So, even though Ive seen that Mr Ws monthly  income was 
lower in his 2015  P60, I dont think Sainsburys were aware of this so acted reasonably  when 
processing the application on that information.
As part of the application, Sainsburys ran a credit  check which showed both Mr and Mrs W 
were maintaining their existing credit. They  were  also able to consider the way Mr W 
handled the separate credit card account he held with them,  where Ive seen he consistently 
met his minimum monthly payments. When considering  these, I dont think  there  were  any 
obvious reasons  to suggest Sainsburys should  have declined  the application. So, I think 
Sainsburys have acted  fairly when approving the loan as the information  they had available 
suggested it was affordable.
I note Mrs Ws daughter  has also provided details of Mr Ws medical history  to show  Mr W 
suffered from the stress of having  to maintain the loan. But Ive seen  no evidence that 
Sainsburys were made  aware of Mr Ws deteriorating health either at the time of the 
application or during the period of the loan. So as its likely they were unaware of Mr Ws 
deteriorating health, I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly towards him whilst he was 
involved in maintain the repayments.
Financial difficulties
Ref: DRN58812845When a lender becomes aware that a customer is in financial difficulty, Id expect them  to act 
positively and sympathetically to that customers individual situation. So, Ive looked  into 
whether Sainsburys  did so.
Ive seen that after being made aware of Mr Ws passing, Sainsburys passed the loan 
account to their customer priorities team. They then requested an income and expenditure 
form to help them understand the financial situation Mrs W was in and what  shed 
reasonably be able to repay.
Ive listened to the call that Sainsburys had with Mrs Ws daughter on 10 April 2018, after 
the income and expenditure  form had been  received. On this call, they explained that they 
were unable to write off the debt as it was a joint loan held in both names. But, they 
acknowledged Mrs Ws circumstances and a £50 a month payment plan was agreed for the 
period of 12 months. I think this shows Sainsburys acting positively and sympathetically as 
this amount was less than the actual  monthly  payment  of £245.83 they were  owed.
On this call they also explained that, as the amount didnt cover the actual monthly  payment, 
arrears would build.  They explained that due to this, it was likely the account would be 
defaulted and passed to their recovery team within three to six months. Mrs Ws daughter 
asked what this meant and she accepted the impact on Mrs Ws credit  file wouldnt matter as 
she wouldnt  need to apply for any further  credit.
Crucially, Sainsburys also explained  that when the account was passed to the recovery 
team, Mrs W would receive two letters that were legally required to be sent. They did this to 
try and prevent  any worry these letters would cause.
Ive seen that Mrs W continued to pay the agreed reduced amount of £50 before offering  to 
pay a higher amount in November 2018,  where  a new figure of £150  was agreed. 
Throughout this time,  the arrears on the account continued to build as the full monthly 
amount wasnt being paid.  The terms and conditions of the loan agreement Mrs W agreed to 
says We may terminate  your loan agreement and you must pay us the total amount owing 
straight away if you do not pay the monthly payment by the payment day each month.  So, I 
think Sainsburys were fair to default  the account  even  though  a plan had been  put in place.
On 31 January 2019, Sainsburys  sent a default  notice  as they explained  they would do in 
the call held in April 2018. This explained  theyd begun the process  of defaulting  the 
account. Im aware Mrs W was worried by this letter which requested  full payment of the 
arrears. The wording of this letter is what Id usually expect to see in a notice of default so 
while in understand it may seem threatening, I dont  think  it means  Sainsburys did anything 
wrong.
In order to prevent  any further action, Mrs W increased the monthly  payment she was 
making to £200.  She did this without speaking  to Sainsburys and agreeing  this with them.  In 
the call Mrs Ws daughter  had with Sainsburys the previous April, she was told to call 
Sainsburys if there were any concerns. I cant see Mrs W or her daughter did this before 
increasing the monthly amount. But I can appreciate its likely  they acted due to the anxiety 
the letter caused.
Ref: DRN58812846Our investigator felt Sainsburys had acted unfairly  by sending this letter to Mrs W without  
warning her first and suggested  a payment of £200  to recognise the worry it caused. Whilst I 
dont dispute this letter worried Mrs W, shown  by her deciding  to increase the monthly 
payment, unfortunately I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly by sending  this letter. I think  
they made it reasonably clear to Mrs Ws daughter, acting as Mrs Ws representative, that 
letters would be sent when the account  was passed to recoveries if the full amount couldnt 
be paid. I think this was a reasonable warning of what  to expect. At this time,  Mrs W and her 
daughter were aware Mrs W wouldnt be able to meet the agreements monthly payments so 
this process would be followed.
Ive noted that they didnt do this within the time frame they suggested of three  to six months.  
But, I think it was clear  Mrs W wanted to continue with a payment plan to pay the remainder 
of the loan so I dont  think the additional  length  of time Sainsburys took was unfair.
Because of this, I dont think theyve done  anything wrong by sending  the default  notice  
without giving Mrs W or her daughter a verbal warning. I think the verbal  warning was 
provided in April 2018 and it isnt common industry  practice to deliver  the same message 
verbally on two occasions. That isnt to say I dont recognise the worry Mrs W felt when 
receiving the letter  during  what must have been a very difficult  time.
I also think that by defaulting the account, its stopped any further interest  accruing  it which  
leaves Mrs W in a better  position financially. So, I dont think they need to do anything 
further.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined  about, my provisional  decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Ws 
complaint about  Sainsburys  Bank Plc.
Ref: DRN5881284