K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains Well Dunn Limited mis-sold  him a taxi insurance policy. 
background
In 2017 Mr H took out a taxi insurance  policy through  Well Dunn. He had six years no claims 
discount (NCD) from a private motor policy. Well Dunn arranged for him to use it on the taxi 
policy. It told him when that policy ended he would  have seven years taxi NCD. 
But Well Dunn made a mistake. When the taxi policy came  up for renewal Mr H wasnt  able 
to use the six years private  motor NCD again.  The insurer would only allow  the one year 
hed earnt  from the taxi policy. Well Dunn said the insurer only allowed the private motor 
NCD to be used as an introductory offer. 
Mr H says Well Dunn mis-sold him the taxi policy. It accepted  itd given him incorrect  
information. It said it couldnt amend the NCD awarded by the insurer or provide anything to 
suggest he had seven years NCD. But it agreed  to reduce his renewal premium  by £600. 
Mr H didnt accept that. He found a different provider. He says because of whats  happened 
he will have  to pay significantly more for his taxi cover for a number of years. He wants 
Well Dunn to pay him between £2,000 and £5,000 to make up for this. 
Our adjudicator said Mr H hadnt lost out financially as a result of Well Dunns mistake.  But 
she thought itd caused him some distress  and inconvenience. He recommended  Well Dunn 
pay him £50 compensation to recognise that. It agreed to pay that. But Mr H didnt accept 
that. He wants to be awarded  more compensation and 7 years  taxi NCD. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to make 
Well Dunn pay more  than £50 compensation.
Well Dunn accepts it made a mistake. So Ive considered if thats caused Mr H to lose out 
financially. But I dont think it has.
Well Dunn should  have made  it clear  to Mr H hed only earn one year of taxi NCD. But even 
if had I think he probably would have agreed to the cover  anyway.  It was allowing him to use 
the six years private motor NCD with it. Mr H hasnt shown he could have found cheaper  
insurance elsewhere, for example.  I havent seen that he could have used his six years 
private NCD with a different provider. Nor has he shown  he could have earned more than 
one years NCD with a different insurer. 
I cant say Mr H lost out on the cost of the 2017  cover or any future  insurance  because of 
Well Dunns mistake. So Im not going to make Well Dunn pay Mr H anything to cover  the 
cost of any part of his future insurance  premiums. 
As part of its apology Well Dunn offered Mr H a £600 reduction on his renewal. That seems  
reasonable to me. But he didnt accept it. He found cover elsewhere  instead. 
Ref: DRN58399182Mr Hs asked to be awarded  seven years taxi NCD. When looking through the complaint file 
I noticed the insurer had issued him a document stating he had seven  years  NCD. I asked 
Well Dunn about  it. It asked the insurer.  The insurer said it had made  a mistake as well  it 
should have only awarded one years  NCD. But it says if its asked to by another  insurer it 
will validate  seven years  taxi NCD. Ultimately, though, it will be for the other insurer to 
decide if it accepts  the full seven years. But it seems Mr H may have earned seven years 
taxi NCD after all.    
Our investigator recommended Well Dunn pay Mr H £50 to recognise  the unnecessary 
distress itd caused him. It agreed  to do so. Mr H says he had to spend  time finding a new 
provider  as he no longer  trusted  Well Dunn. Considering all thats happened £50 seems a 
reasonable amount to me. So Well Dunn will need to pay that to Mr H. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Well Dunn Limited  will need  to pay Mr H £50 compensation. 
Well Dunn Limited should  do this within 28 days of us telling it hes accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from 
the date of my final decision  to the date it makes  payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5839918