K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a cheque he paid into his Santander UK Plc account didnt clear when it 
shouldve. This left him short  of money and unable to complete  a business transaction  
abroad. 
Mr K would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he suffered. 
background
Mr K paid a cheque into his Santander UK Plc account on 11 December 2018. Before he did 
this, he says he checked with the bank that it would clear in one day. He says that he was 
assured many times  that it would.  He says he explained that he needed  the money cleared 
to buy a car and that he was, again, assured  that the money  would clear  in a day.
Mr K said that on the basis of these assurances, he went to Germany  where he was to buy 
the car. 
In Germany, he found that the cheque  hadnt cleared. 
Mr K called Santander a number  of times  on 13 December 2018 to find out what  had 
happened to the cheque. He couldnt  get an answer  immediately.  But Santander did put 
£500 into his account for his expenses. They explained that this money would be taken back  
once the cheque cleared. He was also credited with a further £100. 
Later on in the evening  of 13 December 2018, Mr K received a call from Santander saying 
that his cheque had now cleared. Mr K said that it was too late as nothing was now open  for 
business. He said that he had a flight out of Germany the following day. 
Mr K raised a complaint with Santander. Santander did accept that Mr K had been given the 
wrong advice about the cheque clearing. For this, they had given him compensation of £100.  
They didnt accept  that they had made  any other error. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with this outcome so he came  to us. 
Our investigator found that Santander had given Mr K the wrong advice regarding  when  the 
cheque would be cleared. But he thought that the £100 compensation given was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr K didnt agree with this decision. He said that he had checked with Santander that the 
cheque would clear  before  he made  arrangements to go to Germany. He says that he 
wouldve used different ways of getting the funds into his bank  account  if he knew that the 
cheque wouldnt clear. 
The complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr K wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that the £100 compensation 
offered by Santander  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I will explain why. 
Ref: DRN50824082I fully accept Mr K saying that he checked  with Santander a number of times that the cheque 
would clear in a day. Santander also accept that Mr K was given the wrong advice. But, 
despite this, I still think  that it was Mr Ks responsibility to make sure that the money  was in 
his account before he went  to Germany to carry out the business  transaction.  I know  that this 
isnt what Mr K wants to hear and I am sorry for this. I cant  hold Santander responsible for 
Mr K going  to Germany without the cheque clearing. As they say in their letter dated 13 
December 2018,  The cheque you have credited to your account could be unpaid for 
numerous reasons  and therefore, you shouldnt have made the trip without having cleared 
funds. I agree that this is the case.  
I have also listened  to the phone conversations  that Mr K had with Santander  on 13 
December 2018.  I think that Santander dealt fairly with Mr K. They were helpful  in 
transferring £500  to his account  to cover his expenses in Germany. 
Also, when the cheque was cleared later that evening,  Santander  called Mr K to let him 
know. Although he said that business was closed for that day, Santander did suggest  that 
perhaps business could be carried out the next day. Mr K gave no reason why this couldnt  
happen. As a result,  I dont  think  that there was anything else that Santander  couldve  done. 
I think that Santander were right to accept that the wrong advice was given to Mr K regarding  
how long it would take for the cheque to clear. But I think that the compensation that they 
have given was enough. I think that they have behaved fairly and reasonably  in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Santander  UK Plc to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5082408