K820x#14complaint
Ms I is unhappy with how Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One)  has used the 
compensation it offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy related to a credit card.
background
Ms I took out a credit card with Capital One in 2005 and also took out PPI alongside it to 
protect her repayments.
Ms I complained to Capital One that shed been  mis-sold  the PPI. Capital  One eventually  
agreed to uphold her complaint the PPI was mis-sold and made an offer of compensation to 
settle the complaint. But Capital One said Ms I still owed a debt on the credit  card that had 
been unpaid. So it was using the compensation to reduce the amount of money that was still 
owed on the card account debt.
Ms I says that she should get paid this PPI compensation directly. Capital One didnt agree 
and Ms I brought  her complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought it was fair for Capital One to use 
the compensation to reduce the debt that hadnt been cleared on the credit  card account. 
Ms I didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has agreed to uphold the complaint and worked out compensation for the mis-
sale. So in this decision I am not looking at how PPI came to be sold to Ms I. But I do need 
to consider whether Capital Ones compensation offer and how it has used the 
compensation is fair.
When a business  has mis-sold PPI, it must  put things right by putting the consumer as far as 
possible in the position they wouldve been  in if they hadnt taken out PPI. So Id expect a 
business to remove  from the credit  card account the charges for PPI, any interest  paid on 
the charges and any further charges caused  by the PPI. 
If, when the costs of the PPI are taken off the credit card balance,  someone paid more than 
they needed to clear  their balance Id expect  a business to pay interest  on the extra  amount 
for the time they are out of pocket  at the rate of 8% a year simple  interest.
Capital One has worked  out that, if Ms I didnt owe anything for the debt on her credit card,  
shed get back  £1,424.84  in compensation. This is made up of £711.07 for the PPI premiums  
that were added to the account and £713.77  in interest caused by those premiums being  on 
the account. 
Ms I defaulted on payments to her credit  card balance in 2010  and whilst  the account  was 
active she never cleared  the balance on the account. So the costs of the PPI in the balance 
Ref: DRN56205632of the account  were  never repaid and she wasnt out of pocket for any of these costs.  So 
there is no compensatory  interest  to include. 
Capital One set out what it was offering in a letter in March 2019 and also said that as Ms I 
still owed a debt on the credit  card account  it was going to use this compensation to set off 
against that debt.  
Ms I hasnt said she feels the compensation amount offered is wrong. And having  looked at 
the calculations  and card data and statements provided, I also think what  Capital One has 
worked out is fair. So, I now need to consider whether  Capital One can fairly use the 
compensation to reduce the debt it says Ms I still owes.
We usually say a business can use a consumers  compensation to reduce their debts if the 
debt is on the account that PPI was sold alongside. This is what is called a closely  
associated debt. Here I can see that the PPI was associated with the same  credit card 
account that went into arrears and on which  the debt exists. So I think Capital One can use 
the compensation to reduce the debt.
I would also add that the PPI premiums were borrowed by Ms I as they were charged  to her 
credit card. And as I have  said she never cleared the balance  of the account. So these 
premiums, and the interest  they caused  whilst  part of the balance,  were never actually paid 
by Ms I. By setting the compensation against the outstanding debt Capital One is in effect 
removing the costs of the PPI from the debt Ms I owed, so that debt is reduced to the 
amount she owed for just her own spending  on the account. And that amount for her 
spending, after removal of the PPI costs,  leaves a debt still owed of £4,029.37.
Ms I says if she had never had the PPI she would never have had the debt on her credit 
card. She indicates she took out the PPI thinking it would cover her payments if she became 
ill and when she tried to claim she was told she didnt qualify so the outstanding amounts on 
the credit  card were  not paid by the insurance.  So although she has complained the PPI was 
mis-sold, and that complaint has been  upheld, she also feels  the insurance  should have paid 
out a claim.
Ms I has been told already that if she wanted  to make a backdated claim against  the policy 
she could take that to the insurer, that is not Capital One. But the outcome of any such  
action is uncertain,  especially when it has been agreed the PPI was mis-sold.
I have tried to find out when Ms I may have tried to make a claim but she has been unable to 
provide any information about this. She can only say that she asked Capital One about  
making a claim and was told she couldnt.  If she had made a claim this would have had to be 
referred to the insurer who provided the policy.
Capital One has provided all its records, including account notes, and there is nothing  to 
indicate when  any enquiry  about a claim was made.  These records  do indicate that in 2010 
Capital One was advised Ms I was in hospital. I note that it was around this time that Ms I 
stopped making  payments and defaulted on the account. Her last payment was made  in 
December 2009.  From May 2010  no further  interest  was charged to the account balance  and 
it seems the account was frozen.
However the PPI on this credit card account  had been cancelled by Ms I in January 2007. A 
copy of a letter from her dated  22 January 2007 has been provided by Capital One and this 
letter requests the PPI is cancelled with immediate effect. The last charge for PPI on the 
Ref: DRN56205633account is shown  on the statements as January 2007. Once the policy  was cancelled then 
clearly it would not cover any claims made. And there is nothing to indicate why Ms I wrote 
to cancel the policy or that she tried to claim at this time in 2007. 
I have looked  closely at the statements for the account and can see that Ms I basically paid 
the required monthly repayment payments on the account until September 2009.  It would  
appear after this she may have got into financial difficulties and the last payment was made 
by her to the account was in December  2009.
Looking at all the facts and history  on the PPI on the account I cannot  see that it was the 
costs of the PPI that caused Ms I to fall into debt.  The PPI did remain  a part of the balance 
and interest on the PPI cost continued  to accumulate until the interest charge was 
suspended in 2010. But the full PPI costs,  including the interest caused, did not form the 
majority of the balance  Ms I owed and defaulted on. 
I have also noted  Ms Is comments about an arrangement she says she made  with Capital 
One not to set off the PPI costs. She says this arrangement was made when she tried to 
make her claim  on the policy.  I have seen  nothing to show that any arrangement  was ever 
made with Ms I about  not setting  off the PPI compensation against the debt on the card. 
There is some correspondence in 2015 about Ms I providing medical records  to have a 
special status  applied to the account.  At this time Ms I had already defaulted on the account 
and it is possible she was still being chased  for payments. If special  status was applied that 
would have meant no further  demands for payment for the debt would have been made. 
It is unclear from the information I have been provided with if that special  status was ever 
applied to the account, although it does seem that Capital One has not chased  Ms I to pay 
the debt on the account  since 2015. Nothing was ever paid to the debt that existed when she 
defaulted on her payments in 2009.  But such special status, if it was applied,  does not affect 
what Capital One is doing now with the compensation. 
Capital One hasnt now chased  or demanded payment of the credit card debt from Ms I. Ms I 
complained she had been sold the PPI and Capital  One has investigated that complaint  and 
upheld it. Following Capital One agreeing that the PPI was mis-sold it worked out 
appropriate compensation for that mis-sale.  And then Capital One has used  the 
compensation due to set against the debt on the credit card. And as I said earlier this is 
effectively removing the PPI costs  from that debt that Ms I never paid. 
As Ms I never paid the costs for the PPI it wouldnt be fair that she is paid the compensation 
directly. And I cannot see from the total debt owed by Ms I that the PPI, which was only 
active until 2007, was the main  cause of the debt amount she owed.
Taking all these factors and the evidence I have  seen into account, I am satisfied that what 
Capital One has done with the compensation in the circumstances of this particular case is 
fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Capital One (Europe) Plcs offer and what it has done 
with the compensation for the PPI mis-sold to Miss I is fair. So Im not upholding this 
complaint and I dont  direct Capital One (Europe)  Plc to do anything further.
Ref: DRN56205634Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620563