K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at screenshots of the online application process Mr H wouldve used. 
From that, I can see there wouldve  been  a section for PPI, which gave an overview of what 
it was for and what it cost.  Then there were two options to choose from: one to buy PPI, and 
one to turn it down.  Both options look equally prominent. According  to the electronic record 
of Mr Hs application, he chose to option to take PPI. So I think that Canada Square  made  
Mr H aware he had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. They did have to give Mr H enough information to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mr H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr H chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. While Mr H said he had 
good sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and offered him more 
comprehensive cover   especially when his work benefits reduced  to just half pay. And Mr H 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case he lost his job. So the policy would have 
been useful for Mr H if something went wrong.  And so I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN50831222my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083122