K820x#14complaint
J, a limited company  which Ill also call the company, has complained that a fixed  rate loan 
sold to it by Lloyds  Bank  PLC in 2006 was unsuitable. In the companys opinion  the loan 
wasnt fully explained  by the bank,  in particular the cost of repaying  the loan early  (the break 
costs).
background
Js complaint has been brought  by a representative.
In November 2006 the company borrowed £1m from the bank for commercial purposes. The 
rate of interest was fixed for the full fifteen  year term of the loan.
In 2007 there were  discussions  between the parties  about possibly restructuring the loan,  to 
achieve more  flexibility and to reduce the monthly repayments. In the end the loan 
restructure didnt go ahead.
J complained about the loan in late 2015  and in 2016. Lloyds accepted it could have  done  
more to explain the potential break costs under the loan. It offered to allow the company to 
exit from the fixed interest rate with effect from 9 August  2016,  and without  paying  any break 
costs. 
J didnt accept the banks offer. It argued that if it had been properly informed about the 
potential break costs, it wouldnt have borrowed at the fixed  rate but at the variable rate 
instead.
Our adjudicator concluded Lloyds had made a fair and reasonable  offer of settlement. He 
thought that, even  if it had been  adequately informed about  the break costs, J would still 
have entered  into a fixed rate loan.  The adjudicator  didnt specify how long he thought  J 
would have fixed the rate for. 
the companys  response  to the adjudicators conclusions
Via its representative J said why it disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusions.
Before the fixed  rate loan was entered into, Lloyds should have disclosed to J the 
banks additional sales charge (also described  as its additional  fixed  rate loan 
margin) as this would  have  impacted  on Js decision as to whether to agree  to the 
fixed rate loan. The charge was hidden in the interest rate and prevented  the 
company from making an informed decision.
Although J had no specific plan to repay early, the company had a need and 
preference for flexibility, as evidenced  in the banks own papers.
The mere fact that, as things turned out, J didnt need or ask over a period  of years to 
repay the loan early,  shouldnt be taken as conclusive proof that J didnt have a need  
or preference for flexibility.
The fact that J didnt proceed with a restructure of the loan in 2007 shouldnt be 
interpreted as showing that the company preferred to continue to pay the fixed  rate, 
as opposed to changing to a variable rate and a more flexible structure. There were 
obvious disadvantages to the banks proposed restructure, even if those 
disadvantages werent highlighted in the banks documents  setting out the proposal.
Ref: DRN50404532The methodology behind Lloyds offer of settlement was wrong, and there  would be 
risks if the ombudsman service appeared to be endorsing the banks erroneous  
approach. 
J continued to argue it would have borrowed at the variable rate from the outset if it 
had been adequately  informed about  the potential  break costs  under the fixed  rate 
loan. But possible alternative  approaches to redress were (a) an interest rate cap for 
five years or (b) a fixed rate loan for a shorter term, between  three  and five years,  
and possibly limited  to 50% of the loan,  with the remainder being subject to the 
variable rate. 
my earlier,  provisional findings
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, I earlier reached certain provisional 
findings, which I summarise below.
My usual approach  to this type of complaint was to decide what the borrower would 
otherwise have done, if the bank hadnt provided  adequate information  about the potential 
break costs  under the fixed rate loan before the borrower entered into it. That was the 
approach Id taken  in this case.
I agreed with the banks  assessment that it could have done more to explain to J the 
potential size of the break  costs. So I had to decide what  if anything  the company would 
have done differently if it had been  better informed about the break costs.
J chose to enter into a fixed  rate loan in 2006  for 15 years without being  required to do so by 
the bank. So fixed rate borrowing must have had an attraction for J, this presumably being  
that Js loan costs would remain constant,  predictable and hopefully  affordable  throughout 
the term of the loan,  at a time when interest rates  were still expected to rise. 
By the time of the restructure discussions of 2007  at the latest,  J must  have  realised that 
there was a connection between break  costs  and flexibility, even if J didnt realise quite  how 
large the break costs might be. For whatever reason(s), J chose not to opt for greater 
flexibility in 2007.
While it wasnt  conclusive evidence, I considered it was legitimate for me to take account of 
whether a borrower like J had in fact sought to repay  early,  when  I approached  the task of 
assessing what need or desire for flexibility in terms of early  repayment the borrower  might  
have had at the outset.
All things  considered, I thought it was reasonable to conclude that J would still have fixed  the 
interest rate if it had known how large  the break costs might be. As far as I could tell, J had 
no specific plan in 2006 to repay the loan early,  nor did I conclude  from the evidence that J 
had such a pronounced wish for flexibility  that it took priority over the advantages  of paying 
fixed interest for an extended  period.  
The question remained how long J would have  chosen to fix for, if it had known how large 
the break costs  might  be under  a 15 year fix. Given my primary findings (in the paragraph 
immediately above), I saw no reason to think that J would have fixed for less than ten years. 
Id recently asked the bank what the fixed rate would have been for a ten year fix. The bank 
had replied that the all-in rate would have been 6.59%, which was slightly higher than the 
fixed rate on the actual  15 year loan.
Ref: DRN50404533It followed that the banks offer of settlement wouldnt  be bettered  by any award of 
compensation that I might make.
Regarding Js point about a possible hidden charge or margin, I didnt think there  was any 
rule of law or regulation  or established  practice  regarding commercial loans in 2006  that 
required the bank,  in terms of the interest payable,  to quote anything other or more  than the 
all-in fixed interest rate payable under the given  loan. I didnt think  it would  be fair or 
reasonable of me to effectively impose  any further  requirements unilaterally and 
retrospectively. 
So, for the reasons Id given, I was minded to conclude that the complaint  didnt  succeed,  as 
Lloyds Bank  PLC had offered to settle it in a way that wouldnt be bettered  by any award  I 
might make.
In response to my provisional findings,  J via its representative confirmed it had no further  
comments to make.  The bank confirmed its offer of settlement was still available  for 
acceptance. 
my final findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings, which  I now confirm as final. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Js complaint doesnt  succeed, as Lloyds 
Bank PLC has offered to settle  it in a way that wouldnt  be bettered  by any award I might 
make. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5040453