K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK plc blocked a transfer  of money  out of their 
account and also complain about how it dealt  with their attempts to resolve the position.
background
Mr M on 15 May 2019 tried to transfer  just over £5,000 to another  account.  He says he was 
sent a One Time  Passcode  (OTP) but the transfer failed despite being  sent a further  three 
OTPs. Mr M says he contacted Santander  and spent some  time waiting to speak to it and 
was told the account had been blocked.  He says he was expecting Santander to contact him 
as promised but didnt receive  that call. Mr M says he then discovered the following day that 
the transfer had been  processed. He says Santander paid him £30 compensation which  he 
doesnt accept  as he was caused  stress  and inconvenience in waiting for a call back.
Santander says fraud  is a problem which is why it places a block  on transactions that raise  
concerns. It has apologised for the inconvenience  caused and is willing  to increase its offer 
of compensation  to £100.
Mr M had already brought  his complaint  to us and doesnt accept the increased 
compensation offer.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that Santander should have done 
more to resolve the problem when Mr M called it. But the investigator thought  that £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was given false information by 
Santander and information that he should  not have been given. He says the compensation 
should be increased to £200  and that Santanders senior managers should address the 
issue about the information he was given.
Mr M says he was caused stress and the position was made worse by the false information 
he was given. He also complains about Santanders  policy on transfer  amounts and believes 
there is a failing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs M will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks  and building  societies. 
And I accept  there are on occasions  where genuine transactions  raise  security concerns as 
in this case. I appreciate in those circumstances  that genuine customers can be caused  
inconvenience. But I dont  think that means  Santander made a mistake here by having fraud 
concerns or by placing an account  block.
Im satisfied that Santander didnt deal appropriately with matters  after the transaction  was 
blocked. I accept  Mr M was given conflicting information and that he made  a number  of calls 
to Santander and waited some time for an expected  call to him. I have no doubt in those 
circumstances Mr M was caused frustration and stress and I appreciate  his concerns about 
the conflicting information he was given. But Im satisfied that Santander has apologised for 
Ref: DRN58334082what took place  and has made  what  I think  is a fair and reasonable total compensation offer 
of £100.
I think that offer fairly reflects the level of Santanders mistake and that whilst Mr M was 
caused stress and inconvenience he has not suffered  any financial loss.
I make  clear to Mr M that we are not the regulator  of Santander. So I cant  fairly order  it to 
require its senior management  to investigate  the issue  about  the level or type of information 
Mr M was given.  I also cant  fairly  require it to change  its business practices or provide 
further information in respect of the issue Mr M has told us about concerning  the size of 
amounts that can be transferred.
Overall I accept Santander didnt deal with this matter as it should  but that its made a fair 
and reasonable offer of compensation. I appreciate  how strongly Mr M feels about  whats  
happened and so I will leave it to him and Mrs M to decide if they wish to accept the offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has made a fair and reasonable total offer of £100 
compensation. Mr and Mrs Ms acceptance  of that offer of a further £70 would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5833408