K822xcomplaint
Ms C is unhappy that Santander UK Plc turned down her application for a consent to let 
(CTL) on her mortgage. She says if shed known she wouldnt be granted the CTL then she 
wouldnt have taken  out a new mortgage  product.
background
Ms C has a mortgage with Santander that had been on the standard  variable rate (SVR) 
since 2012.
On 5 November  2018 she applied for a new preferential interest rate and the paperwork was 
posted out to her.
Ms C says her circumstances then changed dramatically and she contacted a letting agent  
on 7 November to arrange to rent her property out. Ms C says the letting agent told her shed 
need CTL from her mortgage lender.
Ms C signed  the paperwork for the new rate on 13 November and returned it to Santander. 
Ms C says that same day tenants were found  for her property.
Santander received  the paperwork back on 15 November and moved Ms Cs mortgage  to 
the new interest rate that same day. A letter was sent to Ms C on 17 November confirming 
the interest rate change had taken  place.
On 19 November Ms C phoned  Santander to request CTL, and her request was immediately 
turned down on the grounds shed taken  a new mortgage product in the last three months.
Ms C appealed against the decision and provided paperwork to Santander  about  her change 
in circumstances.  On 3 December Santander  reconfirmed its decision that it wouldnt grant  
the CTL.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld, albeit 
she confirmed Santander had offered £100  for the fact Ms C was probably given false hope  
about an appeal  during  the phone conversation on 19 November, and a decision wasnt  
given on 26 November as promised. Ms C didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ms C has set out her account of events in 
considerable detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this 
complaint in the way that I have.  Ours  is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Ms C, but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
Ref: DRN55918152dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at 
and what questions should be asked or answered.
Its unfortunate that Ms Cs circumstances changed so dramatically  just a day or two after 
shed applied for a new mortgage  product after being on SVR for six years.  Its also 
unfortunate that Ms C chose to accept the mortgage  product change after she knew she was 
going to rent her property out without making  a quick call to Santander to ask whether that 
would change things,  especially considering  she says the letting agent  had told her she 
would need to apply for CTL.
Ms C has said there was nothing in the terms and conditions that said she wouldnt  be 
granted CTL, beyond stating Santander  is able to refuse CTL if it has reasonable grounds. 
But it was clear this was a residential  mortgage and that CTL wasnt an automatic right;  it 
had to be applied  for. Its also not for Ms C to decide what is reasonable. Having considered  
everything Im satisfied a consumer taking a new residential mortgage product  shortly before 
asking to rent their property out is something a lender  can reasonably take into account 
when deciding whether or not to grant  permission for the property to be let.
Ms C has said the three month restriction on CTL applications is a hidden  condition that she 
couldnt have  anticipated when she accepted the product. A lender cant anticipate all of the 
possible scenarios  that may occur, and in this case  Ms C didnt  tell Santander that she 
intended to rent the property out until after shed accepted the offer. If she had asked 
Santander then it would  have told her it wouldnt grant CTL if she accepted  the new product. 
Its clear that Ms C has an excellent recollection  of the various calls she had with Santander. 
So Im sure shell remember that when she applied for the new product she was twice asked 
if the property was currently let or if she lived in it, whether she had any plans to move,  and 
whether she could think of any other possible changes. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Ms Cs honesty in saying she was unaware  at the time that she would 
want to rent her property  out, I would have  thought  the fact those questions had been asked 
of her just two days earlier should have put Ms C on notice that she should speak to 
Santander again before  arranging a tenancy for her home and before accepting  the new 
product.
Santander has offered  £100 for the fact Ms C was probably given false hope about an 
appeal during the phone conversation on 19 November, and that a decision wasnt given on 
26 November as promised. Having considered everything Im satisfied thats a fair offer and I 
make no other order or award.
Ref: DRN55918153my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  Santanders offer of £100 compensation 
is fair. I leave it to Ms C to decide if now  on reflection  she wants  to accept that offer.  
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means Ill not 
be engaging  in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 
7 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5591815