K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Capital One (Europe) plc has charged him twice  for two purchases he made 
on his credit card. As a result of these duplicate charges  hes gone over his credit limit and 
incurred charges.
background
In January 2019 Mr C made two transactions on his credit card, one for £80 and one for £60, 
to the same  third party. 
Mr C complained to Capital One as he said that when he checked his online banking,  there 
were two charges  pending, two for £60 and two for £80. He said this reduced his available 
balance so he didnt  have as much to spend.  He also said these duplicate transactions  
caused him to go over his limit, resulting in charges being applied.
Capital One didnt think it had done anything wrong  so Mr C brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt  think Capital  One had caused  duplicate transactions. She compared 
the screenshots sent from Mr Cs mobile  banking  app and his credit card statements.  She 
said the app had shown the transaction as pending and then the transaction  amount  but 
she didnt think that had meant the payment had gone through twice. So she didnt think  
Capital One had caused him to go over his credit limit. 
Mr C disagreed, he said hed had this issue in the past and Capital One had paid him 
compensation for this.
As Mr C has disagreed, its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator, Ive explained why below.
The screenshots provided by Mr C do show  a £60 payment twice. But underneath  one of the 
amounts it says pending. It seems the mobile banking app will show pending  transactions 
and then show that the transaction has gone through,  but this is the same  transaction. It 
wasnt paid twice.
I can understand why Mr C might have  been concerned that the transaction would be paid 
twice, but from the notes  Ive seen of his contact with Capital One, it was able to confirm  
when Mr C queried that only one payment had been made for each of those amounts. 
Having looked  at Mr Cs statements, I can see that on 8 January, he made a payment  for 
£80. On 9 January, he made a payment of £60. These are the only payments for those 
amounts that appear on Mr Cs statements, so Im satisfied these amounts havent  been  
taken twice as a result of a Capital One error.  
Ref: DRN52973282Mr C says the duplicate  pending transactions lowered his credit limit, but I dont  agree that it 
did. Mr Cs statements end on the eighth  day of the month. So his statement ending 8 
January showed  he had a balance of £1,125.74. And his credit limit was £1,200.  So he only 
had around £75 of his limit available to him on 8 January.
On 9 January,  Mr C made three  transactions totalling around £100 (one of which was the 
£60 transaction).  So hed exceeded  his credit  limit on 9 January and an over limit fee was 
applied. So I accept  Mr C went over his limit of £1,200,  but I dont agree this was a result  of 
Capital One reducing his available  balance with pending transactions. 
Ive checked the terms of Mr Cs account,  these say that if the credit  limit is exceeded, an 
over limit fee will apply. The fee listed in the terms is £12, which is what  Mr C was charged. 
So Im satisfied Capital  One was entitled  to apply this fee and its done so in line with its 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr C feels very strongly  about this matter,  but for the reasons given above I 
done think Capital  One needs  to pay any compensation to Mr C or do anything differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5297328