K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont  pay their home insurance claim 
for a gold bracelet lost while on holiday.
background
In June 2018, while on holiday Mr and Mrs P lost a gold bracelet belonging to Mr P. Thy 
thought it had been lost when they were  out walking. Mrs P reported a claim to AXA when 
she got home. She advised initially that shed bought the bracelet  3 or 4 years  previously 
and paid for it by card.  But she then said that shed bought it with cash, but wasnt able to 
produce evidence  of withdrawal of a large  sum of money as they kept cash in a safe in their 
house. She no longer had the receipt and wasnt able to obtain one from the retailer. She 
then told AXA she had a photo of Mr P wearing the bracelet. She supplied  a print of this but 
when questioned she said she didnt have the original digital image so AXA wasnt able to 
review the digital properties.
AXA sent out an investigator to interview Mr and Mrs P. He obtained  a statement from 
Mrs P. She explained that she and her husband  had serious health problems, which meant 
that Mr P wasnt able to provide a statement. She explained that any inconsistencies  in her 
statements to AXA were  because of her medical condition.  The investigator found  the 
circumstances of the loss to be genuine but emphasised  that Mrs P should provide proof of 
ownership to AXA.
AXA wouldnt pay the claim. It said that in view of the inconsistencies in Mrs Ps statements, 
the inability to provide the digital photo and the fact that Mr and Mrs P had made several  
previous claims for loss of jewellery,  it did require strict proof of ownership of the bracelet. 
Mrs P wasnt  able to provide that, as it was a cash purchase and the retailer couldnt  find it in 
its records. She felt that AXA had treated  them like thieves and hadnt  taken  sufficient 
account of their disabilities.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint. He said that AXA was 
entitled to insist on strict proof of purchase, which Mrs P hadnt been  able to provide. 
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA has pointed  out to Mr and Mrs P, under the terms of the policy  it is entitled  to ask for 
evidence from the policyholder to prove  their claim,  including original purchase receipts, 
photographs etc. It maybe that in some cases the insurer  doesnt insist on such strict proof 
as a purchase receipt, as it may decide  that other  evidence is sufficient. But here it has 
decided to ask for strict  proof  as:
There are a number of inconsistencies  in Mrs Ps accounts  of the incident and of her 
purchase of the bracelet.
Mr and Mrs P have  made several  previous claims for loss of jewellery,  which have 
been paid.
Ref: DRN57584282Mrs P wasnt able to provide the digital image of the photo, or say who took it. So 
AXA wasnt able to verify when the photo  was taken.
Mrs P paid cash for the bracelet and hadnt  kept the receipt and wasnt  able to 
produce evidence  of withdrawal of large sum of cash.
I wont go into the inconsistencies here.  I can understand  that Mrs P has medical problems 
which may affect her memory. But there are a number of points at which she might  have 
been able to produce better proof of ownership  of the bracelet but simply was unable to do 
so. I think it was fair, in light of the above  points for AXA to insist on seeing proof  of 
purchase. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P think that was unfair.  But I think that AXA went  to 
some lengths to try and get evidence from Mrs P. Ultimately under the terms of the policy, 
its entitled to refuse to pay the claim if it thinks Mr and Mrs P havent produced sufficient  
proof of their loss.
So I wont  be able to uphold the complaint. If Mrs P is able to produce more  evidence of the 
purchase/ownership of the bracelet, she should  produce that to AXA.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5758428