K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr P and Miss P payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr P and Miss P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available. Its also likely that, over so many years,  memories  about details have 
faded. Ive borne in mind these difficulties  in the evidence when considering  the case. As 
with all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened,  based on what  
evidence there is.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered carefully the comments  of Mr P and 
Miss P. However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why:
I dont have  strong  evidence  to show that Bank of Scotland  failed to follow  the proper 
practice of making Mr P and Miss P aware  the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure 
that they freely chose  to take it. Without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
say that Bank of Scotland acted wrongly  in that way.
Bank of Scotland didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr P and Miss P, as being  particularly 
suited to their individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would have been  for Mr P and Miss P to decide whether it was 
suitable. But even  if it had made  a recommendation, I think  it would probably have been 
an appropriate  one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being  able to pay a mortgage 
can cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to any 
employer sickness  and redundancy  benefits, and possibly  for longer. So it would have 
been potentially  useful. 
 Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the cost of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information about the costs would have  affected  whether 
Mr P and Miss P took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr P and Miss P would have been affected by any of these.
Ref: DRN55040722my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5504072