K820x#14Complaint
Mrs N complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office  Money)  blocked her 
card while she was abroad on holiday. 
Background
Mrs N says she was abroad on holiday between 25 November 2018  and 5 December 2018. 
Mrs N was paid on 30 November 2018 and says she tried to withdraw  the funds in her 
account from that point  onwards but her bank card was blocked by Post Office Money. 
On her return to the UK Mrs N spoke with Post Office Money and it explained her account 
had been blocked as it had concerns  about fraud. Mrs Ns account  was unblocked and she 
complained. Post Office Money responded but didnt agree it had made  a mistake.  Post 
Office Money said the debit card had been  blocked on 3 December 2018 because of a 
suspicious transaction and that it had texted and emailed Mrs N. In addition, the business 
says it tried to call Mrs N on 4 December 2018 as well. 
Mrs N referred  her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Post Office Money  had dealt  with Mrs Ns complaint fairly  and said the 
evidence showed  the block had been put in place on 3 December 2018. Mrs N asked to 
appeal so her complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs N is upset. She was abroad on holiday and has told us she 
wanted to spend her wages, which were paid on 30 November 2018. But I have  to balance 
that against the evidence  Ive seen and Post Office  Moneys obligation to protect customers 
accounts. 
Banks can block an account if there is a suspicion of fraud or concerns over security. In this 
case, Post Office  Money  has provided system  evidence to show  that the transaction  that 
caused the account to be blocked occurred on 3 December 2018. Post Office Money has 
also sent in system evidence to show that no other card transactions were attempted  
between 30 November 2018 (when Mrs N was paid)  and 3 December 2018 (when the 
account was blocked).  Whilst  I note Mrs N says the account was blocked at an earlier point, 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt  show that. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs N but Im satisfied the 
account was blocked by Post Office  Money on 3 December 2018, not before. 
Ive looked at Post Office Moneys  account terms and they allow it to suspend  account 
access if there are concerns over potential fraud or security.  Post Office  Money  has sent us 
details of the transaction that was highlighted by its fraud prevention  systems. Im satisfied 
Post Office  Money had legitimate concerns about the transaction  and its decision to block  
Mrs Ns account was reasonable. 
Post Office  Money sent Mrs N a text message,  email and tried to call her on 
3 December 2018 and 4 December 2018. Mrs N has explained that she wasnt  able to 
receive calls whilst abroad. Whilst that may be the case, I think  Post Office  Money  made 
Ref: DRN54630592reasonable attempts to discuss the transaction with Mrs N. I havent found anything  to show  
Post Office  Money has treated Mrs N unfairly.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs N but I havent  been persuaded to uphold  this complaint. Post 
Office Moneys terms say it can block an account if it suspects fraudulent activity. And Im 
satisfied that it had genuine  concerns on 3 December 2018 when it took that step. I know  
Mrs N says the block was put in place before that date but the evidence Ive seen  doesnt  
support that. Post Office  Money made reasonable attempts to get in touch with Mrs N while 
she was away and Im satisfied its dealt with her complaint fairly. As Post Office Money has 
dealt with Mrs Ns complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463059