K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say TS CAPITAL LIMITED  (trading as Ocean  Capital  Group (Ocean Capital))  
did as follows:
Coerced them, between 2016  and 2018,  to open an inappropriate advisory  Contracts 
for Differences  (CFD) trading account.
Gave them unsuitable trading advice which caused successive losses,  before the last 
trades were closed in November 2018.
Churned their trading  account.
Mr J leads the complaint.
background
Mr J says Ocean  Capitals  account and service were  neither desired nor required and that 
the account was opened  only because he was pressured to do so over around two years  of 
persistent unsolicited sales calls and contacts from its officials. He says he eventually 
surrendered to the pressure  he cites his age at the time (80 years old) as being a potential  
factor in this  and proceeded with the account on a trial basis. There  is also evidence that 
he considered  the account to be potentially useful for short based trades.
In the main,  Mr J submits the following:
Given his and Mrs Js advanced ages and their lower risk profiles, the high risk CFD 
trading account  was inappropriate  for them [and should not have been promoted  to 
them]. £90,000 was invested in the account  and Ocean Capital assured him that its 
clients had not lost money in CFD trading.
All but one of the trades made  losses and the overall performance of the account  
was worse than it would have been  if traded by a lay person. This should not have 
been the case with what should  have been  but was not  sound  professional  and 
suitable advice  from Ocean Capital. 
Ocean Capitals trading recommendations were  numerous, he  soon became 
aware that [the] account with Ocean  was more of a gambling account  than a serious 
investment account  and he  soon  discovered  that [the] account was more of a 
revenue /commission grabbing account  for Ocean than it was a serious investment 
account for [him and Mrs J]. This, including the very short term scalping strategy that 
defined Ocean Capitals approach,  indicated  churning to him. As a CFD account,  
Ocean Capital abused  the availability of more  capital  funds that could be used for 
more trades  and more  commission/churning.
Ocean Capital disputes the complaint. In the main, its position  is as follows:
The account was not inappropriate for Mr and Mrs J. Mr J was assessed as having 
vast experience in trading leveraged products over the preceding 20 years  and there  
is telephone recording  evidence to support this. He wilfully added CFD trading 
capabilities to the third party platform account that was used for trading because  he 
had an interest in trading CFDs. He also had vast overall  investment experience with 
a total of around £4 million in a number  of different investment  accounts.
It did not manage the account, it only recommended investments and the final 
decision to trade  belonged  to Mr and Mrs J. In this context and given that only eight 
investments were agreed in the account over its lifetime of four months,  it rejects  the 
Ref: DRN55718892allegation that it churned the account.  Additional  recommendations  were  made  but 
not to the extent to suggest  churning.  No more than 50% of the accounts equity was 
ever used. Total exposure over the eight investments was around  £185,000 and its 
commission from the investments totalled  £1,388.55   which was on its discounted  
rate and was not excessive.
In terms of trading  outcomes  and also relevant to the allegation of churning  its 
recommendations were  reasonable  and there  is telephone recording evidence  
showing that many of its recommendations were rejected by Mr J. This included 
some recommendations to close positions  in profit, which were not followed.
In terms of the benefits  of the account, there  is telephone evidence in which  Mr J 
expresses the short  based trading facility as being  one such  benefit he sought, in 
addition to the avoidance of stamp duty payments in conventional  stock trading. 
Mr J says one of the main  arguments  for the churning allegation is the numerous  amount of 
recommendations Ocean  Capital  presented to him  had he accepted  them all the losses  
would have been significantly greater; in addition, had he accepted them  all most of the 
accounts equity  would  have been used; those he did not accept were poor, if followed they 
would have increased the accounts losses; he  soon became aware of the [churning]  
strategy and stopped any further trading until a profit was gained ; he accepts that he made 
the final trading  decisions  but they were  based  on Ocean Capitals advice; he had many 
years of trading  experience but they were  not in trading  leveraged products and that was no 
excuse for the manner  in which Ocean Capital misconducted the account. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. 
He considered that fact-find evidence showed Mr and Mrs J had over 10 years 
investment (including high risk and margin trading) experience;  showed they were of 
significant wealth,  with the £90,000 account  investment  being  affordable  for them; 
and showed that they were not normally high risk investors but they wanted to take a 
high risk approach  with the account  and were given warnings about the high risk 
nature of CFD trading.  On this basis, he was not persuaded that the account was 
inappropriate for them.  He also noted opportunities that Mr J had to stop the account 
opening process when a problem  arose  with regards  to the third party platform  
account, but instead he made notable effort to complete the opening  process.
He considered that telephone recording evidence confirmed the trial basis  on which 
the account was opened; and that Mr and Mrs J monitored the account for loss and 
were prepared  to stop trading for this reason (which, he noted,  was what  happened).
He was not persuaded by the churning allegation and considered Ocean Capitals 
recommendations to have been  based on reasonable  ideas.
Mr J disagreed with this outcome. He maintained his key arguments and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Appropriateness
Ref: DRN55718893Appropriateness must be assessed, by a firm, on the basis of information from a client  about 
whether (or not) the client  has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved in the service or product offered by the firm and the type of service  or product. 
Ocean Capitals evidence  of fact finding and appropriateness assessment is as it has 
described. It shows that between Mr and Mrs J they had over 10 years  of investment and 
trading experience, which included CFD trading experience (with confident  knowledge of 
CFDs and their downsides).  There is also evidence  of risk warnings given to them.
Ocean Capitals evidence  appears to be internally  based or generated and Mr J might argue  
that it is unreliable.  However, I would disagree. He appears to have been the lead for the 
account and having listened  to telephone call recording evidence   in which  Mr J sometimes 
spoke relatively freely,  to the relevant adviser(s),  about his experiences in investments  the 
contents of the fact find evidence are broadly supported by some of the experiences he can 
be heard  describing.  Overall and on balance, I consider that the account was appropriate for 
Mr and Mrs J.
Risk
I agree  with the investigators observations about  Mr and Mrs Js attitude  towards  risk and 
about the risk warnings  they were given in the account opening process. I have seen and am 
satisfied with evidence  of the latter. With regards  to the former, the fact finding evidence 
illustrates that they were not generally  high risk takers,  but sometimes  were. Reference  to 
their experience in CFD trading  suggests  they sometimes took high risks and the document  
also confirms that for the purpose of opening the account with Ocean Capital they sought to 
take a high risk approach. It is not unusual for investors to take an approach to risk that is 
different from their norm,  for the sake of a particular purpose.  On balance, I consider this is 
what Mr and Mrs J did for the CFD trading account.
Objective
There is sufficient email  and telephone  call recording evidence presenting expressions, from 
Mr J, which  confirm that he sought benefits  from CFD trading in the form of short  based 
trading and the avoidance of stamp duty. There is also evidence  in which  he sought the 
avoidance of avoidable interest  payments in the CFD trades  and advocated for short term 
trading for this reason.  
In this context, I note particular email  evidence in which Ocean Capital offered Mr J a choice 
between CFD and shares for a particular trade, and his response includes reference  to his 
wish to avoid in share trading. Overall, I am not persuaded that Mr J traded in CFDs  
reluctantly, his trading served the purposes summarised above and he appears to have 
wilfully engaged in them  so as they served those  purposes. I appreciate that an obvious, 
and perhaps ultimate, purpose would have been to make money   and the trades, overall, 
did not. I address  this further below. However I should also note that this service would not 
normally address matters of performance  in isolation.
Coercion 
I do not wish to be dismissive of the strength  of feeling with which  Mr J has stressed his 
displeasure about how he considers he was pressured to open the account. However,  whilst  
firms are regulated to ensure that they sell their services and products fairly, honestly  and 
Ref: DRN55718894appropriately  amongst  other relevant regulated obligations  they are not prohibited  from 
actively selling such products and services.
I appreciate that repeated contact from a firm  selling a service   can be perceived as a 
form of pressure. However, Mr J has described  a succession of contacts from Ocean Capital 
that took place  over around two years. In addition to suggesting Ocean Capitals persistence 
it also suggests that Mr J was not easily  persuaded   or sold to.
I understand the point he has made  about  his age at the time. However, I should consider 
this point subjectively. Available evidence  shows that Mr J was an assured and experienced 
investor. His trading  related emails  and telephone  calls to Ocean Capital depict  this. They  
also depict a relationship that does not appear to have been imbalanced in favour of Ocean  
Capital. The evidence  portrays  Mr J as retaining  control of the relationship, sometimes  taking  
advice but also leading with his own ideas.  Overall, I have not seen evidence that Ocean 
Capital was unduly persistent in selling the account to Mr J  that is, not beyond the level of 
persistence to be broadly  expected from a firm actively  selling its service   and I am not 
persuaded that he was in a vulnerable state  in the course of that sale.
Misrepresentation
Mr J suggests,  or asserts, that Ocean  Capital misrepresented  the number of its clients who 
had lost money in CFD trading.  The suggestion  is that Ocean Capital told him no such 
clients had lost money. Available  evidence does not quite support this.
There is an email between  both parties  in which  Mr J queries information about  Ocean 
Capitals performance  in CFD trading. Ocean Capital responded to him and confirmed that, 
overall, 71% of its accounts had lost money over the preceding 12 months but, with specific 
regard to advisory accounts worth over £10,000  all had made  money. I consider that there 
was sufficient information within this response  to have given Mr J a realistic picture. It cannot 
fairly be said that Ocean  Capital misrepresented  its performance given  its reference  to a 
majority (71%) of all of its accounts losing money. It would not have been reasonable to 
ignore this and to focus, only, on the feedback  for advisory accounts worth over £10,000.
Churning (including unsuitable  trades)
A series of transactions that are each suitable  when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade  are made with a frequency  that is not in the 
best interests of the client.
Ref: DRN55718895The above  is the regulators guidance  on churning. The focus  is on the frequency  with which 
a firm carries out transactions  actual transactions  for its client and on its clients best 
interests. Both elements are important.  The idea is that frequent transactions  for a client  
ought not to be carried  out only or mainly  for the purpose of generating commission for the 
firm, they should  be carried  out in the clients best interests.
An advisory investment  or trading account could arguably have limited scope for churning   
given that the firms role does not go beyond the provision of advice and the account  holder 
retains the final decision on trading/investing. I appreciate  that churning can nevertheless 
sometimes happen in such arrangements,  for example where the account  holder is under 
undue influence from the firm. 
This was not the case for Mr J. As noted above, available  evidence  (emails and telephone 
call recordings) shows that he retained control  of his relationship with Ocean Capital. In 
some correspondence  and telephone call recordings the adviser  even appears to have been 
somewhat servile towards Mr J. Trading activity in the account further illustrates his control. 
By his own admission, he soon began to question the recommendations he received and 
rejected many of them. The balance of evidence suggests he rejected most of the 
recommendations he received from Ocean Capital. I am also mindful that eight actual 
trading transactions took place in the account   out of all the recommendations he received.
I have considered email  and telephone  recording evidence of how,  broadly, the 
recommendations were  reasoned and made to Mr J. Like the investigator, I consider that 
Ocean Capital usually  gave reasonable grounds for its recommendations. I can understand if 
Mr J considers he could have received better  advice  from a better adviser.  That might have 
been so, but that does not establish churning. In the absence of negligent advice or advice 
in bad faith  neither of which I have  found   leading to actual trading transactions, I am not 
persuaded that Ocean Capital churned  the account.  The commission it earned from the eight 
trades is also not particularly indicative of churning.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my 
decision before  30 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5571889