K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the car they acquired with finance from 1st Stop Car Finance 
Ltd (1st Stop).
background
Mr and Mrs C say they acquired the car in August 2018 with a recorded mileage of just over 
14,000. They say they did an MOT check online and it showed  the car had covered  over 
21,000 miles in February 2018. And they say this could make it difficult to sell the car in 
future. So, they say they want to reject the car and end their finance agreement.
1st Stop says Mr and Mrs C were provided with information about the mileage when they 
acquired the car. It says the supplying dealership  explained the car had previously been 
used under a nationally  recognised scheme for drivers with disabilities, which  was clear from 
the service history.  And it says they were also given  photographic evidence  of the odometer 
reading in kilometres  as previously recorded,  then in miles as recorded  on the dealership  
systems.   
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the investigators conclusions.  They  said theres  clear  evidence 
they were mis-sold the car. And they said another dealers told them  its only worth £5,000 
with the mileage discrepancy.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
1st Stop supplied Mr and Mrs Cs car under a finance  agreement,  so it was responsible for 
any misrepresentation made about  the car by the supplying dealership.
I see the previous  owner had the odometer set to kilometres. And I see as a result the MOT 
history shows  that in February  2018 the mileage was noted down wrongly after an MOT  test 
as the kilometre  reading  was inputted  as mileage.
I also see the dealership that supplied the car to Mr and Mrs C changed the odometer  from 
kilometres to miles  before  putting it up for sale. And I see when  Mr and Mrs C acquired it the 
car was showing the correct mileage of just over 14,000.
1st Stops  told us the supplying dealership made  Mr and Mrs C aware  of the cars  history 
when they acquired  it and gave them photos  of the odometer readings taken both before 
and after the change from kilometres to miles.
But I think the most significant matter is that when  Mr and Mrs C acquired  the car it was 
showing the correct  mileage both on the odometer  and on the relevant sale documentation.  
Ref: DRN53272762So, for these reasons  Im satisfied there wasnt any misrepresentation made about the car 
by the supplying dealership for which 1st Stop could be held responsible as the finance 
provider. And this means I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.    
                  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5327276