K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains as a director of a limited  company C that Barclays  Bank Plc didnt redirect 
her merchant services during an account  switch which  led to a delay  in funds being available  
to C.
background 
C decided to switch  its business bank account  from its old bank Bank A to a new bank 
Bank B. Barclays provided  C with its merchant services and so C asked Barclays  to start 
sending its transactions  to its Bank  B account.
But the merchant  transactions  didnt switch over on the date that Cs bank account changed.
Mrs M complained to Barclays saying that she felt she had sent the correct  paperwork to 
Barclays in time for the change of accounts. 
Barclays said that it had sent C two direct  debit mandates  which needed to be signed in 
order to switch the account, but that Mrs M had only returned one of the mandates  out of the 
two. Barclays said they walked Mrs M through exactly  what was needed. It acknowledged 
that it hadnt clearly  explained what was required of Mrs M previously so, paid C £150 
compensation for the inconvenience it caused.
Overall, it took nearly a month before the transactions were being  sent to the correct 
account. This meant that around £4500 had been  sent into Cs old bank account  which  was 
closed, and C no longer had access to it. 
Mrs M asked  Barclays to reclaim these  funds and send them  to Cs Bank B account. 
However, it took several months for the funds  to be reclaimed from Bank A by Barclays  
before being sent to Bank B.
Mrs M remained unhappy with Barclays due to the delay in redirecting the merchant services 
and the delay in returning the funds to Cs new account. Mrs M said that this had led to 
financial pressure on C which then had to borrow money from another business. So, she 
brought Cs complaint to us. 
Our investigator contacted Barclays who offered a further £350  in compensation to C for the 
delays and disruption caused.  Our investigator  felt that C hadnt provided Barclays  with the 
required mandates before the accounts  were switched. But they also felt Barclays  hadnt  
handled the case well as there  were  avoidable  delays but that its offer of compensation was 
fair. 
Mrs M remained unhappy as she said that this complaint solely  related to Barclays  not 
redirecting the funds  to the correct  account.  Mrs M said that, as she sent written instructions 
to Barclays to change  the accounts,  it shouldnt matter whether the direct  debit  mandates 
were received. So, the case has been passed  onto me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55388242Mrs M feels  that, as Barclays had been  notified in writing of the changes she wished to 
make, it shouldnt matter  whether the direct debit mandates were received first. But I dont  
agree, and Ill explain why.
C entered an agreement with Barclays  to provide its merchant  services. Part of the terms 
and conditions of that agreement were  that Unless we agree otherwise with you, you must 
authorise your bank to pay direct  debits for any amounts you owe us under this agreement  
So, C had a responsibility under its agreement with Barclays to authorise the direct debit 
mandates for its new account - so that Barclays would be paid for its services  and so it could 
reclaim any money refunded under chargeback. So, I dont think  its unreasonable for 
Barclays to say the direct debit mandates needed  to be completed  before it would change  
the account. 
I can see from Barclays contact records that Mrs M asked about changing the recipient bank 
account about two weeks before the accounts  were due to change. Barclays said they sent 
two direct debit mandates to C by post two days later. Mrs M has said that she returned 
these mandates  by post, but Barclays said they werent received. I havent seen any 
evidence that Barclays received these  nor has Mrs M been able to show that they were  sent.  
So, I cant say that Barclays  were wrong  not to make the changes having  not received the 
mandates. 
Mrs M chased  Barclays around four days after the bank account switch and she was 
informed that Barclays  hadnt received the mandates. In order  to speed up the process 
Barclays said they would re-send the mandates by email. Barclays  said they received one of 
the mandates back from Mrs M by email three days later. 
Mrs M has provided us with a copy of the fee collect mandate  dated mid-September as well 
as the settlement mandate  dated late September. Mrs M has said that she sent the 
mandates back to Barclays 16 times. However, Mrs M hasnt provided any further evidence 
to show that both mandates were sent before late September. So, Im not persuaded that 
Barclays had received both completed  mandates before late September. The following day 
Barclays successfully changed the recipient bank account to Cs new account. 
Barclays has acknowledged  it didnt  make it clear to Mrs M that both mandates  would be 
needed to redirect  the merchant services.  So, it paid C £150 for the inconvenience  this 
caused. And whilst  I do think that payment reflected the level of inconvenience caused at the 
time, I think Barclays  now needs to recognise  that it also didnt handle other things well.  
For instance, due to the delay in changing  the recipient account, around  £4500 was sent to 
Cs Bank A account,  which  was closed. Barclays told Mrs M that she would have  to 
approach Bank A to retrieve  the funds herself.  But Bank A told Mrs M that Barclays  would 
have to send signed authority to return the funds and this makes  sense,  given the potential 
for chargeback issues. Whilst  Mrs M told Barclays  about this in late September, it took 
Barclays until late November to write to Bank A. Although I can see that there  was some 
communication between  Barclays  and Bank  A during this time, I dont think  its delay was 
reasonable, particularly as Mrs M had already said what  was needed. 
Once the request was received by Bank A it told Mrs M that the funds would  be returned 
within five days.  Mrs M called Barclays two weeks later as the funds had still not arrived.  
Barclays said that Bank A had sent the funds, but they were  returned to Bank A as it didnt  
include the reference Barclays had provided  in its request. I can see why this caused further 
frustration and inconvenience to Mrs M. Barclays had to re-request the funds which led to 
further delays.  But I cant hold Barclays entirely responsible.  As this delay was down to Bank 
Ref: DRN55388243A not including  the reference  number  which  had been requested of them.  However, there 
were avoidable  delays and, on several occasions,  it took for Mrs M to chase Barclays  before 
there was any real progress in her case.
Barclays have offered a further £350 in recognition  of the inconvenience it caused. 
When considering  if this compensation is fair, I must  consider the impact on C as a limited  
company as its C who has brought its complaint to us. I can see that there has been 
inconvenience caused to Cs staff having  to repeatedly contact  Barclays  by email  and 
telephone in order to progress the complaint. C chose to employ a contractor in order to 
assist in resolving the issues with Barclays.  But this was a decision made by C and it didnt 
have to. So, I dont  think its fair for Barclays to pay the contractors fees.  But Barclays do 
need to compensate C for the inconvenience  it caused, and I think  Barclays  offer of a further 
£350 is a fair reflection of the level of inconvenience it caused C.
I understand that Mrs M would like Barclays to compensate C for the money  it has borrowed 
from another business. Having looked at the bank statements C has sent to us, it shows  that 
C borrowed just over £5000 from another business in the period when the transactions  were 
being sent to the wrong account. Had Barclays been  able to recover  the funds and return  
them to C straight away,  then C would have been able to pay back  the other business 
several months earlier. However,  there  doesnt  seem to be a contractual agreement for C to 
pay back the money that it borrowed.  And it doesnt  appear that this delay led to any 
additional costs  to C. So, I cant say that the delay caused a direct financial loss to C which 
requires any further  compensation. For that reason, I wont  be making an award in relation to 
this particular aspect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Barclays Bank PLC to pay C;
£500, of which £150 has already been  paid,  for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M on behalf of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5538824