K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car hes been  financing through  an agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd 
(Lex) was faulty  at the point of supply. Hed like to terminate his contract  and have all of his 
contributions refunded.
background
In March 2018 Mr M took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Lex but says he had problems  with the car. As follows:
the infotainment  system wasnt functioning properly
a door speaker rattled
a door pillar rattled
the four wheel drive wasnt functioning properly
the clutch was slipping and acceleration was poor
The dealership attempted  some repairs but couldnt  identify some  of the faults Mr M had 
reported. In particular they noted  there had been  a few error messages suggesting the car 
hadnt been able to travel in four wheel drive. 
So Lex arranged for an independent inspection. The independent  engineer noted a rattle  
from the front door and a further rattle from the tailgate  but he wasnt able to replicate the 
four wheel drive  problem.
Lex therefore accepted Mr Ms request to terminate  his finance arrangement. They said 
theyd take the car back with nothing further  to pay and they also offered Mr M £200 to 
compensate him for the trouble hed been put to.
But Mr M didnt think  this was enough. He thought that all of the instalments hed paid under 
his agreement should be returned; including his initial deposit. So he referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator sympathised  with Mr M. He agreed that the finance  agreement should be 
terminated but he also thought that some  of the instalments Mr M had paid should be 
returned to him. He recognised that Mr M had some  use of the car and thought  it would be 
reasonable for Lex to retain 70% of any instalments paid. He also explained that in these 
circumstances it was usual for this service to ask for the deposit to be returned. And he 
thought Lexs  offer of £200  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused was 
realistic.
But Lex didnt agree. They thought it was unreasonable to expect them to refund so much of 
what Mr M had already paid them as they said it was clear  hed had use of the car. And they 
went on to dispute  the return of the deposit  as they said it was an initial  rental and not a 
deposit. As such they said this initial rental  should be spread across the agreement.  They 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59907602Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. The law allows us to look at this complaint 
against the finance provider, Lex, even though some actions may have been completed by 
their agents,  the dealership. The relevant law says that the car should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. As I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable if on this basis  I thought  the car was faulty when supplied, Id think  it fair and 
reasonable to ask Lex to put this right. 
Here theres no dispute that the vehicle  is faulty. I agree with the investigator and with Lex 
that its reasonable to allow Mr M to reject  the car and terminate  his contract. The car was 
brand new when Mr M took receipt  of it and there  are clearly some faults that Lex have been 
unable to resolve. I think the presence of multiple rattles and potentially  an unresolved issue 
with the transmission are more than a reasonable person would expect in a new car.
Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask the credit  provider to refund some of 
the instalments  that have been  made  towards the agreement.  The amount of instalments  will 
vary depending on the issues  that have been experienced but here I think  the investigators 
suggestion that Lex retain 70% of the instalments is reasonable.
Wed also usually ask the business to return the deposit but here Lex has explained  that its 
not a deposit but an initial payment thats  spread across the lease period. I dont see the 
difference between  that and a deposit. A deposit  reduces the capital thats financed and 
therefore reduces  the monthly instalments, in the same way as the initial  payment would. So 
I think, in line with this services usual practice,  it should be returned to Mr M as part of the 
settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  Mr Ms complaint and tell Lex AutoLease Ltd to:
end the agreement with no further  sums  to pay except  for mileage and refurbishment 
charges that may be applicable
refund  the full deposit and add 8% simple interest from the time of payment to the 
date of settlement
refund  30% of the monthly instalments that have been  paid by Mr M and add 8% 
simple interest from the time of payment to the time of settlement
collect the vehicle  at no cost to Mr M
pay Mr M £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes suffered
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5990760