K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Lowell Portfolio  I Ltd failed to investigate  when  she told them the debt 
they were pursuing  wasnt hers. Shed like to be compensated  for consequences of the 
impact this had on her credit file. 
background
On 16 September  2014 Lowell wrote to Miss G to explain that they had taken over her debt 
from another business V. They asked that she got in contact to arrange repayment of the 
outstanding amount which was around  £288.  
In December 2014 Miss G got in contact with Lowell through  their website. A payment  plan 
for £50 a month  was set up which was due to start in January 2015. When  the initial  
payment failed Lowell called Miss G and a new direct debit was set up for the same amount 
which started on 1 March 2015.  
£50 was collected via the March direct debit.  The April direct debit was declined by the 
paying bank and Miss G was sent a letter informing her of this. Miss G called Lowell  on 
8 April 2015. The call notes recorded  by Lowell say that Miss G was aware of the arrears on 
her payment  plan.  They also record that Miss G was due to start a new job and would call 
back to pay when she could. 
On 16 April 2015 Miss G again  called Lowell.  The call notes record  that Miss G advised she 
couldnt clear the arrears  as she hadnt been paid. The payment plan was reset  for £50 per 
month which was set up to start on 31 May 2015.  Payments were  successfully made  by 
monthly direct debits until the debt was cleared in September 2015.  
In January 2018 Miss G contacted Lowell to complain.  She said that back in 2015  she had 
told Lowells call handler that the account  linked  to the debt was fraudulent  owing to the 
actions of her ex-partner.  She said the call handler just told her she had to repay the debt 
and set up the repayment plan. 
Lowell looked  into the complaint and in March  2018  issued their final response.  They  
explained that they had no record of Miss G raising concerns of fraud  on the account  and 
that theyd been in touch  with V who likewise  had no record of any concerns being raised. 
But when looking further into things they agreed  that the account was opened  fraudulently. 
So they sent Miss G a cheque refunding her the full amount shed paid. They also arranged 
for any adverse  information in relation to the debt to be removed from Miss Gs credit file. 
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with this response and referred her complaint to our service. One of 
our adjudicators didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld. As she still disagrees, Miss G 
has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. She says the impact  of this on her 
credit file meant borrowing was more  expensive for her around that time and she would like 
to be compensated  for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator and for very similar reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Miss G, so let 
me explain why. 
Ref: DRN50833992I think Lowell  can only be held responsible for the impact of this debt on Miss Gs credit file if 
this was incorrectly recorded as a result  of an act or omission that they are responsible  for. 
Miss G says she told Lowell about  this in 2015  and they failed to take any action. Lowell say 
there is no record to support that they were made aware of the allegation of fraud  until 2018 
at which  point they promptly took the appropriate  action.
In cases like this where  there  are conflicting  accounts; I have to make a judgement  based on 
the balance of probabilities as to what I think is most likely to have  happened.  Lowell have 
explained that due to the passage of time they no longer have call recordings going back to 
2015  I dont think this is in itself unreasonable. 
Ive looked at the call notes recorded at the time by Lowells call handlers. None of these 
include anything about Miss G making them  aware  that she had concerns over fraud. I find 
the evidence of the call notes more  persuasive than Miss Gs testimony.  So I think its more  
likely that Miss G didnt make Lowell aware  of her concerns until 2018. Further  to this when 
these concerns were  highlighted to Lowell in 2018, they responded appropriately. So I have 
no reason to think they wouldnt  have done  the same in 2015  had they been made aware 
at that point. 
Miss G feels  some  of the calls she had with Lowell from 2018 support her account of what 
happened in 2015. I understand why Miss G says this and Ive considered her point. But I 
remain more persuaded by the call notes recorded  at the time.  
Lowell have now refunded Miss G in full and removed all references  to this from her credit 
file. But I cant hold them liable  for the implications of not doing so sooner when Im not 
persuaded they were made  aware  of Miss Gs concerns until 2018. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Miss G to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083399