K821x#15complaint
Mr M (as executor of the estate of Mrs M) complains  about poor service from Virgin Money 
plc (VM) in connection  with closing an account that formed  part of Mrs Ms estate.
background
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 8 January 2020. A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A, and forms part of this final decision.
Mr M responded to say that he didnt fully agree with my provisional findings. He remained 
unhappy that his complaint as an individual hadnt  been considered,  and said my provisional 
decision failed to explain why.
Mr M also considered there  were  other  issues that hadnt been properly addressed in the 
provisional decision.
VM responded to say that it agreed  with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said from the outset that he complained in his personal capacity, as well as an 
executor, when he brought the matter to this service in March  2019. So I can see why he 
might think  we should deal with both complaints within one final decision.
I accept that there is likely to be some  overlap between the matters Mr M complains about 
as an executor and as an individual. But as I said in my provisional decision, the executor 
role carries particular duties and responsibilities. Operating  a bank account  as an executor 
can involve considerations that may not be necessary for an individual acting on their own 
behalf. 
This means  Mr M is complaining in two distinct capacities  as an individual  and as an 
executor. His relationship  with VM is different in those two capacities. Our rules  require  us to 
consider each complaint on its own merits. Even  where  there may be some overlap between  
the content of two complaints, we are required to investigate each one and make separate 
findings accordingly. And any decision  I issued in respect of his relationship with VM as an 
individual may not be enforceable (as I had not followed the rules  that require it to be 
considered as a separate complaint). That wouldnt  help Mr M.
As such,  my findings in this decision  are only in connection with Mr Ms complaint as the 
executor of Mrs Ms estate.
Mr M has listed the points he considers my provisional decision failed to address. It seems to 
me that they are mostly in connection  with specific failings by VM which meant the account  
closure and subsequent complaint werent  properly handled, and wider VM practices that Mr 
M considers  are either discriminatory  or out of line with other businesses.  
Its not in dispute  that there  were  failings by VM in dealing with the closure of Mrs Ms 
account. But the business has agreed  to compensate  the estate for the financial loss 
Ref: DRN53845492caused, and also paid compensation for the poor service it provided.  For the reasons  I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I consider the overall compensation paid by VM is fair 
and reasonable.  
Ive taken account of everything Mr M has said (both  before I issued my provisional decision 
and in response to it). But as I said in my provisional  decision,  Ive identified  the issues  I 
consider are central  to the complaint  and set out my findings on those points  which is in 
line with the informal  dispute resolution  service we provide.  I dont consider its appropriate 
or reasonable for this service to make  more specific findings on the points Mr M has raised.
And as I said in my provisional decision,  there are some points that may be more 
appropriate for VMs regulator to consider. 
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart  from the position set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. If it has not already done so, I direct  Virgin  
Money plc to pay the following to Mr M in his capacity as executor of Mrs Ms estate:
£100.
the difference between interest  that wouldve been earned  on the account balance if 
it had been paid to the account  set out in Mr Ms closure instructions, and interest 
that was earned  between  23 November 2018  and the date the account was closed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M (as executor 
of the estate of Mrs M) to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53845493APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr M (as executor of the estate of Mrs M) complains  about  poor service  from Virgin  Money plc (VM) in 
connection with closing an account that formed part of Mrs Ms estate.
background
Mr M is the executor  of Mrs Ms estate, which includes  an account  held with VM. He received a letter 
from VM on 14 September 2018, outlining  its new requirements for identifying  executors. 
Mr M contacted  VM about  this because he was an existing customer. Mr M says he was told the new 
rules applied to customers who had opened  accounts before  2018. Mr M pointed  out hed opened  a 
new account  in March 2018, but VM said he still had to comply with the identification  requirements. 
Mr M raised  a complaint and VM replied to this on 17 September  2018.  It maintained  that Mr M had to 
provide identification but sent a list of acceptable documents that was different to those included with 
its original letter.
Mr M obtained grant of probate for the estate on 17 September 2018.  He sent an office copy, together 
with instructions for closing the account to VM on 24 October  2018.
VM wrote to Mr M on 1 November  2018  with a further request  for identification. Mr M produced what 
was needed on 23 November 2018, but VM failed  to close the account  in line with his instructions.
Mr M complained to VM again in December 2018, and VM replied  in February  2019.
When our investigator  first reviewed the complaint he didnt recommend it should  be upheld.  At that 
stage, he hadnt seen enough evidence  to persuade  him that Mr M had provided the identification 
documents VM required. And he didnt  consider it was the role of this service to interfere with VMs  
requirements for closing accounts.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions,  and provided a detailed response to the points 
he felt required further consideration. He also wanted a response to VMs further investigation into 
whether it held the documents  hed produced in November 2018.
During the course of the complaint VM accepted  that Mr M had produced the documents  it needed  in 
November 2018. It offered  £100 for its poor service and the missed opportunity to promptly bring  the 
matter to a close.
The investigator considered  VMs  offer was fair. He said this service couldnt award compensation for 
trouble and upset to a deceased customers estate, but he could consider evidence of financial loss if 
the estate could  provide  this.
Mr M remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. He said,  in summary, that:
not all aspects of the complaint had been fully addressed.
he was complaining  in his personal  capacity, as well as executor and he wanted the 
complaint considered in both contexts.
Ref: DRN53845494he didnt consider  financial loss to the estate  and compensation had been properly  
considered.
there was no proper  justification for the introduction of VMs  new identification  requirements 
for executors.
Mr M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Mr M has put considerable time and effort into this complaint,  and has set out in detail  
the points he feels require further  consideration.  I would like to assure  him that Ive reviewed  
everything hes said, even if I dont respond to every point hes made  in this decision.  Ive identified 
the issues  that I consider are central to the complaint, and have set out my findings on those  points 
accordingly.
I should  also say at the outset that I recognise  Mr M considers he made  his complaint in his personal  
capacity as well as executor of Mrs Ms estate. The investigator  has explained  that its not possible for 
this service to issue one decision for a complaint made in both capacities. 
For the purpose of this complaint I will only consider  Mr Ms position as the executor of Mrs Ms 
estate. Mr M is able to make a separate complaint to VM in his personal capacity if he wants  to do so. 
If hes not happy with VMs response he can then refer the matter to this service.
It seems to me that there  are two central issues to the estates complaint:
1.whether or not it was reasonable for VM to require additional identification information  for the 
executor to close Mrs Ms account. If it wasnt,  a related  issue is whether VM should  have 
closed the account  in October 2018.
2.whether the compensation offered by VM is enough, in recognition that it failed to close the 
account when Mr M produced the documents it needed in November 2018.
VMs identification requirements for executors
VM introduced  new identification requirements  for executors in September  2018.  When  Mr M received 
the list of documents VM would accept, he contacted the business because  he was an existing 
customer in his personal capacity and had had an account  since 2013. 
VM told Mr M the new rules  applied to customers whod opened accounts  before 2018. Mr M said 
hed opened another account in his personal  capacity in March 2018.  VM said he would  still need to 
provide the documents,  and Mr M complained at that point.
VM didnt uphold the complaint and said Mr M would  need  to provide the documents. It provided a list 
of acceptable documents, which was different to the list it had sent in September. VM later accepted 
that the second  list shouldnt have been sent,  and that the first list was correct. 
Mr M sent an office copy of the grant of probate to VM on 24 October  2018, together with instructions 
for closure of the account.  VM wrote to him on 1 November 2018 to say that it needed  certified 
confirmation of identification  to close the account.
Mr M objects to VMs identification requirements  for executors for a number of reasons. He says:
Ref: DRN53845495grant of probate  is a formal court appointment of the executor as the person with legal  
authority to administer the estate.
VM doesnt ask for the same identification information to close accounts  for living  customers.
the requirements are a unilateral change to the accounts terms and conditions.
there is no legal obligation for VM to impose the requirements.
Ive noted everything Mr M has said, including the references hes made to legislation and regulatory 
guidance. This service  does  take account of the law and associated guidance,  but they are not our 
only considerations. We also keep in mind  what is considered to be good industry practice, and what 
is fair and reasonable. 
I accept that VM had confirmation of Mr Ms identity in his personal  capacity.  But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for VM to disregard that information for the purpose of Mr Ms role as executor of Mrs 
Ms estate. That role carries particular duties and responsibilities, and so I think  was reasonable for 
the bank to treat Mr M as a separate customer for the purpose of his executor role. 
Mr M points out that grant of probate is the court appointment  of an executor. So I can see why he 
might consider further proof of his identity  isnt necessary. He doesnt accept that identification is 
required to comply  with anti-money laundering legislation, and considers theres  no legal  requirement 
for the bank to ask for proof of identity. Mr M further considers that imposing the requirement is a 
unilateral change to the accounts  terms and conditions. 
Im mindful that in his capacity  as executor, Mr M was closing an account  that had belonged  to Mrs M. 
Her identification would have been verified when  she opened the account. As Ive already said, I dont 
think was unreasonable for VM to disregard  any identification information  it held for Mr M in his 
personal capacity.  And I dont think it was unreasonable  for VM to require identification information  for 
Mr M as an executor  despite his appointment under the grant of probate. 
I say this because anti-money laundering  legislation  does impose considerable  obligations  on banks 
to verify  their customers. There can be penalties if they fail to do so. In common with other 
businesses, VM has to take a risk based approach  to compliance with the relevant legislation and 
have suitable systems in place. But its up to individual businesses to decide on the processes they 
are going to use. This service isnt the regulator and we cant tell a business  what  information  it 
should or shouldnt ask for. 
Grant of probate is confirmation of appointment of an executor, but for the banks purposes it doesnt 
confirm their identity.  So I dont accept that the grant of probate meant VM didnt need to ask for 
confirmation of Mr Ms identity. I consider it was good practice for the bank to confirm  his identity, so 
that it had verification of the executor as the person  giving instructions to close the account. 
I accept that the new anti-money laundering  regulations  may not have been in force when  VM first 
asked Mr M for identification.  But they were imminent, and in the circumstances I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to implement its new requirements when it did.
Mr M suggests the need for identification is a unilateral change to the terms and conditions of the 
account, which he wasnt told about. Having looked  at the relevant terms and conditions,  Im not 
persuaded that notification would be necessary  as the requirements stem from changes VM was 
required to make  to comply  with revised  regulatory  requirements. The terms and conditions  allow for 
that type of change, and there is no reference to notifying customers. 
I accept Mr M may see the way VM has chosen to meet  those regulatory requirements  has caused 
him (in his capacity as executor of the estate) some difficulties. But it is a matter  for VM as to how it 
meets any such new requirements.  And it is difficult for me to say that it is unfair for a business to try 
Ref: DRN53845496and bring  about changes, which are aimed  at preventing  criminal activity  and protecting  customers 
money, a little earlier than strictly necessary. 
Indeed, once  the scope  of any new regulatory  requirements is known it seems sensible for a business 
to implement them as soon as practicable, rather than wait for a mandatory deadline. That seems like 
good practice to me.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable  for VM to ask Mr M for identification. So it follows that I dont think 
VM was at fault when it didnt close the account in October 2018.
Mr M says VM doesnt ask for identification when closing  accounts  for living customers. But as Ive 
already said,  executors are closing accounts that belonged to someone else, and they have specific 
duties and responsibilities  in doing so. So Im not persuaded that VM is at fault because operates  
different rules for different  types of customer. 
Mr M says he considers the professionals VM will accept to certify documents  is restrictive and 
discriminatory. I dont consider its the role of this service  to make findings  on that issue, but if Mr M 
remains unhappy he may want to raise it with the Financial Conduct Authority as VMs regulator.
Compensation for failing to close the account in November 2018
During the course of the complaint it was discovered  that Mr M had provided the documents  VM 
needed in November 2018. So the account shouldve  been closed  at that time. Instead, the account  
wasnt closed until October 2019.
VM offered £100 in recognition of its poor service. Mr M considers it should also pay for the financial 
loss to the estate.  
I think  there may have  been  some confusion about the redress this service can pay to the estates  of 
deceased customers.  In general, were not able to make awards for trouble and upset. But where 
there has been financial loss because of a banks mistake, the estate should be put back into the 
position it wouldve been in if the mistake  hadnt been made.
In this case, the account shouldve  been closed  in line with Mr Ms instructions  in November 2018. So 
VM should  pay the difference  between interest that wouldve been earned on the balance if it had 
been paid to the account  specified in Mr Ms instructions,  and the actual interest that was earned  
between 23 November 2018 and the date it was eventually closed.
VM should  also pay the £100  it has already offered  to Mr M.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In addition  to the £100 it has offered, I 
direct Virgin Money plc to pay the following to Mr M in his capacity  as executor of Mrs Ms estate:
the difference between interest that wouldve been earned on the account  balance  if it had 
been paid to the account  set out in Mr Ms closure instructions, and interest that was earned 
between 23 November 2018  and the date the account was closed.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5384549