K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited  under  his 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr A has a home  emergency  insurance policy with British Gas (BG)  which covers the boiler 
and central heating system, amongst other  things, for a house  which  he owns and rents out.
From September 2017, Mr A had problems with the boiler at the property. BGs engineers 
visited on a number of occasions between then and April 2018  to try to fix the problems.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the service BG provided   and in April 2018 he terminated his 
contract with them. He says there were a number  of cancelled appointments, delays, and 
poor service generally. This meant his tenants were  without heating and hot water for much 
of the winter period.
Mr A says this not only cost him the good  will of his tenants  who threatened to take him to 
court  but also meant he had to pay for hotel  accommodation for them for six nights during 
March and April 2018.
He also says the policy was mis-sold, in that BG didnt provide the promised  and 
contracted - service. And he says he wasnt able to get BG to acknowledge that his tenants 
were vulnerable because  they had young  children and were without basic  facilities.
Mr A complained to BG. They acknowledged elements of poor service, including  
cancellations and delayed appointments. And they offered Mr A £300  to reflect his trouble 
and upset.
BG also said, however,  that the on-going  problems with Mr As boiler at this time were due to 
sludge and scale  in his central heating system. They  said theyd told him about  this in 
September 2017 and advised him that the solution was to have  a power flush  of the system 
carried out. They said the problems after September only arose because  Mr A didnt act on 
this advice.
Theres no dispute that Mr As policy does not cover problems caused by sludge and scale.
Mr A wasnt  happy with BGs response, so he complained to us. He said hed heard nothing 
about the sludge and scale  issue until January  2018. He said at that point, his tenants  told 
him that a BG engineer told them a power flush was required and said BG would be in touch  
with Mr A to arrange it. Mr A says BG didnt in fact contact him about this issue until March  
2018. 
Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint. She thought BG should reimburse 
Mr A for the tenants hotel  stays  hed paid for. And she thought their offer of £300  was 
insufficient to cover  the amount of trouble and upset Mr A had experienced and should be 
increased to £500.
BG didnt  agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN59470392Mr A has also contacted us to say that he disagrees with the proposed outcome. He thinks 
the compensation suggested is still insufficient. He had previously told us hed replaced the 
boiler  which  was ten years old  in April 2018  and may not have had to do so had BG 
told him about the need for a power flush earlier.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made previous complaints to BG  and to us about BG. Its important that Im clear 
at the outset that the any complaints made to us in the past have been resolved.  I cant re-
visit them now  and I cant take them into account in deciding  what  outcome or 
compensation is fair and reasonable in this particular case.  
Mr A has also been advised  that we cant consider his argument  that BG shouldnt be 
allowed to offer these  services to the general  public. Its our role to look at individual  
complaints and  where we see mistakes have  been  made  to consider what the business 
needs to do to put things  right for the individual customer. Mr A is aware that he can raise 
broader issues with the Financial Conduct Authority.
So, Im only looking at the service offered to Mr A by BG between  September  2017 and April 
2018. And I need  to consider what impact any failings on BGs  part in that period have had 
on Mr A.
Theres no doubt in this case that Mr A has received poor service  from BG. Theyve admitted 
as much and agreed to pay him £300. 
The question for me now is about the extent  of that poor service  and whether it caused Mr A 
trouble and inconvenience  throughout the relevant period  and/or caused him to have to 
pay for his tenants  alternative accommodation.  
I also have to bear in mind that we do  within reason - expect  customers to act in such  a 
way as to mitigate  the losses they suffer when  a business has made an error. 
It seems  to me that BG are suggesting their errors  would have caused only minor 
inconvenience to Mr A if hed acted reasonably   and swiftly - after they told him about the 
need of power  flush of the central  heating system. 
Although they admit  to cancellations and delays  albeit at a busy time of year and in a very 
severe winter  theyre  essentially suggesting that Mr As tenants  would have had heating  
and hot water for most  if not all of the colder months  if their advice had been heeded in 
September 2017.
I should say that if I thought BG had offered that advice to Mr A in September  2017, I would 
be likely  to agree with their argument to a great degree. However, on the basis  of the 
evidence and information weve got, I think its very unlikely they did offer that advice at that 
time.
Ref: DRN59470393When BGs engineers  attend a customers property, they fill out a job sheet, which  they then 
pass to the customer.  The examples we have contain  a series of tick boxes  to indicate what  
the broad  problem might be, followed by spaces for engineers to make  any comments. 
Usually, these are filled in with a clear  indication of whats wrong and whats  been done   or 
needs to be done  to put it right.
Mr A has provided us with the job sheets from the visits made by BG engineers to his 
property in the relevant period. The first mention of sludge, scale or the need for a power 
flush is on a job sheet  from March  2018.
BG also have system  notes which show what work  the engineer carried  out on each  visit. 
For the relevant  visit in January 2018,  the system notes show P / flush  REO. I assume this 
to be a reference to a recommendation that a power flush  be carried out. The system notes 
for September 2017s  visits have no reference  at all to a power flush  or any abbreviation or 
code which  might be intended to refer to a power flush.
BG said there were  system notes from 2014 which mentioned sludge and scale   and that 
Mr A should  have taken  action after that visit. But the system notes dont say that Mr A was 
advised  or if so exactly what he was told. And BG visited the property many times after 
that and before September 2017  and theres no evidence that on any of those occasions 
they raised the issue again. 
We know BG first offered to carry out the power flush  for Mr A in March 2017   weve  got 
copies of the quote they sent him by email.  So, Im satisfied its very likely that Mr As version  
of what happened  is accurate.  The power  flush was first mentioned to his tenants in January 
2018  and BG carried out their promise to contact him about this only in March 2018.
At that point, Mr A agreed the quote, but was later informed the procedure couldnt  be 
carried out until early  April 2018.  There was some contact  between Mr A and BG after that, 
when he was trying to get an earlier  appointment.  
BG have  made much of the fact Mr A told them on one occasion not to carry out the power  
flush until theyd resolved the complaint  hed made  to them.  They imply this slowed down 
any resolution  or at least shows Mr A was not concerned to get the earliest possible 
resolution. 
But this happened  in late March, towards the end of the relevant period  and Mr A 
contacted BG the next day to chase the date for the visit (so had clearly changed his mind).  
In any case, theres  no suggestion this affected BGs proposed date in any way.
So, although  I think Mr A might have been more proactive and contacted BG when hed not 
heard from them after his tenants passed on the message  in January, Im satisfied BG are 
responsible for most of the delay in Mr A getting  his boiler  and heating  fixed.
BG knew about the underlying problem  in September 2017. Theres no evidence  they told 
Mr A or his tenants about this until January 2018. And then they took until March 2018 to 
contact Mr A as theyd promised. And I have to say, in that context it is unfair for BG to 
suggest  as they have  that Mr A could have got the repair  carried  out earlier  if hed gone 
to a different  supplier  in March after they gave him the April date for the power flush.
Ref: DRN59470394BG should have  provided advice direct to Mr A (not via his tenants) in September.  And if 
they had done so, the boiler  would have been fixed before  the worst of the winter  weather 
arrived and Mr A would not have had to pay for his tenants to stay in a hotel when the 
weather was particularly severe.
I dont think I can reasonably hold BG responsible for the fact that Mr A chose to replace his 
boiler in April 2018, It clearly hadnt been  fully functioning  in September  2018  and thereafter  
 so any additional damage  to the boiler after September due to the sludge and scale  can 
only have been  marginal.
Bearing all of that in mind, I agree  with our investigator that BG should pay Mr A £380 to 
reimburse him for the costs incurred by his tenants. 
I also agree  that £500  rather than the £300  offered by BG  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. BG were offering £300  for the delays and inconvenience  they accepted 
theyd caused   and they were denying responsibility for the problems persisting through to 
April 2018. I think they are responsible for much  of that delay and I think they should 
therefore pay more  in compensation to Mr A.
I believe BG may have  already paid Mr A the £300 they offered. For the sake of complete  
clarity, if that is that case, Im not suggesting  they pay a further £500. The compensation 
should be £500 in total.
I suspect that when Mr A says the policy was mis-sold, he means BG didnt provide the 
level of service they advertised. I think thats  true  even though the policy  clearly  doesnt set 
out any specific timescales within which repairs will be carried out - but I think Ive dealt with 
that above and suggested what I think is fair compensation for the poor service  BG gave 
Mr A.
I agree  with Mr A that in these circumstances, BG should take customers  vulnerability in to 
account. This might mean they pay for alternative accommodation whilst problems are 
sorted out  or prioritise repairs in some cases.  BG tell us they do ask customers about 
whether theyre  vulnerable and I have  no evidence to suggest  that isnt the case.
And we dont have  any evidence  in this case that BG were unwilling to consider the 
vulnerability of the tenants  or knew they were  vulnerable but didnt take action. In any 
case, I am now suggesting that BG pay for the tenants hotel accommodation  during  the 
relevant period.
Ref: DRN59470395my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited should: 
pay Mr A £380 to cover the costs incurred by his tenants (plus  8% interest simple 
from 3 April 2018  when Mr A first paid his tenants costs  -  to the date this payment 
is made);
pay Mr A £500 compensation in total for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5947039