K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) imposed unfair charges when  he 
returned a car at the end of his finance agreement.
Background
Mr F acquired a car funded by a finance agreement in March 2015 and it came to an end in 
April 2018. The car was collected by an agent acting on behalf  of PSA.  He inspected the car 
and identified several areas of damage  which were  recorded in his report and he also took 
photographs of the car. Mr F didnt agree with the agents conclusions  and made  him aware  
of this.
PSA sent Mr F an invoice  for £432.  This consisted of £232  for damage to the car beyond  fair 
wear and tear and £200 for an incomplete service  history. The car had been  serviced  twice,  
firstly on 2 August  2016 and secondly on 1 August 2017. The manufacturer recommends a 
service is carried  out every 10,000 miles or every 12 months,  whichever comes first. 
Mr F has explained  that when acquiring  the car he entered  into a service  contract  with the 
dealer. However,  the dealer moved  away from the area making it difficult to arrange a 
service. He said records seemed to have been  lost in the transfer and this contributed  to the 
difficulty he encountered in arranging for the car to be serviced. He said the dealer  
expressed no concern  about the gap between services.
Mr F complained to PSA and brought the matter to the attention of his MP. PSA offered to 
reduce the charge for damage  by 25%.  Mr F then brought his complaint  to this service  where  
it was considered by one of our adjudicators. He examined the collection report and 
concluded the damages identified by the agent  went beyond fair wear and tear as defined by 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) guidelines. As such he thought 
it reasonable for PSA to have charged for those  items. He also said that he couldnt 
comment on the business charging structure but he believed the sum was fair.
 Our adjudicator also considered the charge for the incomplete service history. He said that 
he believed  the servicing contract was part of the transaction  brokered by the dealer and the 
provision of servicing by the dealer was an implied contract  term. He concluded that as the 
dealer failed to provide its part of the bargain  due to it moving  premises,  then he believed  the 
implied contract terms were broken.
He explained  that Mr F hadnt been notified of the closure of the dealers premises  and he 
was satisfied Mr F had made  reasonable attempts  to have  the car serviced at the new 
premises. As such he didnt think the imposition  of a charge  of £200 was fair. He concluded 
that taking into the account the 25% reduction previously offered by PSA the charge should  
be reduced to £174.
Mr F accepted this conclusion, albeit  reluctantly.  PSA didnt and asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman. It said that Mr F was aware of the servicing requirement and had 
two services carried out. It didnt think there was any reason why a third couldnt have been  
done.
Ref: DRN57189922My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator has given  a comprehensive  response to this complaint and as I find myself 
in agreement with his conclusions, I wont cover all the details set out in his opinion  letter,  
but I will explain why I share his conclusions.
On the matter of the damage, Mr F entered into a contract  with PSA which said that he 
would keep the vehicle in good repair and that he would  pay costs  for providing  
replacement parts and carrying  out repairs which are needed  to put the vehicle in good  
condition following its return or repossession  or resulting from an accident or deliberate or 
negligent damage to the vehicle. The agreement also sets out in some detail what is 
considered to be damage outside fair wear and tear.
The industry standard for fair wear and tear is set out in the BVRLA guidelines. I have  
reviewed the photographs of the damage  and I agree with our adjudicator that the damage 
for the items  charged  for were beyond  fair and wear  and tear. Therefore, I consider the 
charge was correct.
Turning to the issue of the incomplete service  history,  if one looks  at it based  only on the 
agreement Mr F had with PSA, then he has breached that agreement. However, my role is 
to decide on what  is fair and reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances. I can 
understand that in acquiring  the car Mr F regarded the service contract as part of the overall 
deal. He paid for a servicing contract which would allow him to ensure his car was serviced  
as required.
At that time,  he was unaware the dealer would close its premises nearby and I can accept 
his claim that he wasnt informed when the closure  took place. He has said that 
subsequently he sought to arrange  a service, but that proved to be difficult due to the new 
dealer not having all the relevant records. It seems odd that Mr F would defer having the car 
serviced when he had already paid for it. I consider the most likely explanation is that the 
dealer made it difficult for him to do so which led to the delay and as a result the incomplete 
service history.
Therefore, I consider  it unfair and unreasonable for him to suffer a charge for something he 
paid for and which wasnt delivered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to 
reduce the charge to £174. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5718992