K820x#14complaint
K, a limited  company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc would not open  a 
business account.
background
K says that it was told by NatWest that the reason the account was not opened  was because 
of the country  it intended to trade with. The director was born there and he thinks that he has 
been discriminated against under the Equality Act 2010 on grounds  of race. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-We take into account relevant regulations and practice. But our role is not to decide 
whether someone  has breached the law.
-She had listened  to a call between the director and NatWest  and considered  that 
NatWest had been very clear  that it did not have the appetite to offer an account.  It 
didnt make a difference that K was also going to be trading in a different country too.
-This was a matter  for its commercial discretion and it was considering an application 
to open an account  in the name of a limited company.
K did not agree. The director said that what is fair and reasonable cannot  be more  important  
than the law. This had been  direct  discrimination. The investigator was biased to say that 
NatWest can decide  whether  to open an account.  Proper legal consideration should be given 
here. He had now been able to listen to a recording  of the call. He did not think that it was 
reasonable for NatWest to make  this decision as it did not have an internal policy  it was 
following.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is not a court  and we provide informal dispute resolution.  As our investigator 
says in deciding  what is fair and reasonable  we will take into account relevant legislation  and 
good practice. If K does not accept my decision it is free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
I understand that the director feels a personal affront and discriminated against. I need to 
make clear  I can only look here at what happened to K the complainant that applied for the 
account. It is a limited company and distinct from the director. K does not have protected 
characteristics.
The director  made a subject access request and has received the information he was 
entitled to. NatWest can set and apply an internal policy for its commercial decisions and it 
does not have to provide K with a copy of this or give any further explanation. 
Ive listened to the phone call the director had with NatWest. The person he spoke to made  
clear that the reason why NatWest did not want to open an account was because  K was 
intending to trade in a particular country. I am not persuaded that this person was not fairly  
able to make  a decision about  the application for NatWest. That was made having referred 
to a colleague and taking  into account any relevant policy.
Ref: DRN59471242So I dont  have a basis to uphold this complaint. Whether or not to open  an account is a 
matter for NatWests legitimate commercial discretion.  Although it was less direct in giving its 
reasons in the final response, the phone call makes clear the only basis for its decision. Im 
afraid I will not be asking  it to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5947124