K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd has made unfair settlement offers  
for a storm damage claim he made  on his home insurance  after initially  declining it. He 
says the matter has caused him upset and inconvenience.
background
Mr S informed China  Taiping that strong winds had damaged his roof. The claim was made 
in January 2018, on the day of the incident. He says due to his concern about  the safety of 
his child, he was told to proceed with the cheapest quote  rather  than waiting for an 
assessor to visit him.
China Taiping then appointed loss adjusters, who asked Mr S to provide photos of the roof 
and the damage, and two competitive quotes  reporting on the damage.  Mr S submitted  the 
requested information,  and confirmed the work had now been completed by the contractor  
who had provided  the cheapest quote.  Mr S had obtained three  quotes.
The loss adjusters subsequently wrote to Mr S declining his claim.  It concluded  that, based 
on the photos, the high winds  had simply highlighted an ongoing defect and the roof was 
suffering from wear and tear, which is excluded under his policy.
Mr S wrote back  to the loss adjusters at the end of January 2018, disputing the decision. He 
explained that his roof had been  kept in a good  state of repair, and all three quotes stated 
the damage was caused by a storm. He also made  the point that all three quotes had been  
provided by contractors recommended by the broker that had arranged  the policy,  so he 
considered them to be credible and qualified.
Three weeks later the loss adjusters wrote to Mr S. The letter  confirmed a 50% settlement 
offer was being  made to resolve his complaint. The letter explained  that the loss adjusters 
thought the offer was fair because it would expect  a well maintained roof to withstand the 
reported wind speeds, which it says were between  39mph and 73mph. It maintained  its 
opinion that the high winds had merely  highlighted a defect. The settlement offer was 
confirmed to be £800, less the £350  policy excess  so £450.
About a month  later, towards the end of March,  Mr S complained.  In addition to the points he 
had already made, he said he was told in a telephone discussion prior to the letter that his 
claim had been  wrongly declined;  and he didnt agree the 50% offer was a resolution,  but 
rather an initial proposal. He also said he was told during that discussion that the wind 
speeds were recorded  to be 61mph  which were  sufficient  to be a storm.
Furthermore, Mr S disputed the £800 offer set out in the letter.  He said this didnt account  for 
the VAT he had paid,  and 50% of the total amount was £960  so after his policy excess this 
amounted to £610. Mr S says this is the figure he was offered during the phone call.
The loss adjusters acknowledged  the complaint, and a few weeks  later it wrote to Mr S to 
confirm it would respond within eight weeks  as per the regulators timescales. The loss 
adjusters then made contact with Mr S at the end of May, requesting a further discussion. 
However, Mr S declined to discuss the matter further and requested  a final response,  in 
writing.
Ref: DRN58404682The loss adjusters subsequently sent a final response to Mr S. It explained that its common  
for contractors quoting for insurance claims, to attribute  all roofing issues  to a storm; so 
whilst a contractors comments arent disregarded,  they are also not accepted  without 
question. It also explained that its common to see high pricing on insurance quotes,  
particularly from contractors who regularly  undertake insurance work.
The loss adjusters also said that the photographs provided by Mr S were  sufficient  to make 
an assessment without a physical  inspection  and the weather records were an important  
part of the assessment; and whist there were strong winds recorded,  there was some 
variation in the wind speeds.
The letter went on to explain that, as per the loss adjusters previous discussion with Mr S, 
the costing for the repairs (£1,920)  was considered  to be very high. However, it was 
prepared to offer £1,650 less the policy excess  to bring the claim to a satisfactory 
conclusion.
Mr S remained unhappy  so he brought his complaint to this service where it was considered  
by one of our investigators. She asked China Taiping to confirm  how it had arrived  at £1,650, 
given the repairs  had cost £1,920  and it explained that it had based costings on national  
rates published by the Royal Institute of Chartered  Surveyors.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She explained there are three conditions that need to 
be met before this service would say a claim for storm damage should  succeed  was there  
a storm; is the damage typical of that caused by a storm; and were the storm conditions the 
main cause of the damage. She said there were storm conditions recorded  on the date of 
the incident  and having reviewed the photos,  she concluded the damage  was typical of 
that caused by a storm, and the storm was the main cause of the damage.  So she was 
satisfied that the claim should be accepted.
Our investigator also explained  that she didnt think the £1,650 settlement amount was fair 
given Mr S had obtain different quotes and gone  with the cheapest, as per China Taipings 
instruction when he first made the claim.  She said that it should settle the claim as per the 
amount Mr S had paid for the repairs, less his policy excess, plus 8% simple interest from 
the date Mr S paid the invoice to the date of reimbursement. Furthermore,  she concluded 
that China  Taiping should compensate Mr S £100  for the inconvenience he had been  
caused by the handling  of his claim.
Mr S accepted our investigators conclusions. But China Taiping questioned whether interest 
and compensation  should  be paid. Its loss adjusters made the following points:
Whilst it appreciated the thinking behind the original decision to decline the claim, it 
agreed with the subsequent decision to overturn it.
However, the difficulty with this claim was the pricing of the quotes  which it believes 
were well prepared and overstated.
Mr S did indicate during discussions that he would accept a reduced cash  offer due 
to the pricing concerns; and it wanted to speak to Mr S to ensure the offer would be 
acceptable to him. But because Mr S would no longer discuss the matter over the 
phone, the offer had to be put in writing.  It says had a discussion taken place, the 
matter could have  been resolved.
Ref: DRN58404683The £1,650  offered  would have been  sufficient  for the one of the contractors to do the 
work described in their quotes.
China  Taiping accepted our investigators conclusions  in respect of settling the claim 
at the amount Mr S paid: £1,920, less his policy  excess. But the loss adjusters said 
that due to the peculiarities with the claim it seemed harsh to punish China Taiping 
further, with extra  amounts  of interest and compensation. The loss adjusters say it 
faced some unusually  difficult circumstances, and had this not been the case, the 
claim would not have reached  our service.
Because China  Taiping didnt agree with the addition of interest or the £100 compensation, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following our investigators assessment, China Taiping  has accepted the claim in full. So all 
Im considering here is how the claim was handled   and whether compensation, and 
interest on the claim settlement, should be paid.
I accept what China  Taipings loss adjusters say about not simply accepting the commentary 
on a contractors quote in respect of the cause of damage. But likewise,  its not enough  for 
an insurer to simply decline  a claim without  explaining how its reached its conclusion.  The 
loss adjusters letter declining the claim provided  no insight into why it had concluded  the 
issues were due to wear and tear, or what it considered the roof defects to be. The loss 
adjusters also later overturned its decision to decline  the claim. So overall, Im not 
persuaded the claim was fairly  declined in the first instance.
Mr S was then made an offer of 50% towards  his repairs  in my view the basis  of this offer 
was not at all clear.  The loss adjusters had accepted the claim, but seemed to be arbitrarily 
deducting 50% due to its concerns about wear and tear. However, if the loss adjusters had 
decided that not all of the claimed repairs should  be covered under the policy, it needed  to 
be clear about which  aspects it was declining so Mr S had an opportunity  to challenge the 
position. So Im not persuaded  Mr S was being treated fairly here either   and indeed, the 
offer was increased  significantly after he complained. 
Furthermore, whilst  I understand the point the loss adjusters make about the pricing on the 
quotes received  from Mr S, I also dont consider its second offer to be fair. Theres also no 
explanation in the second offer letter of the rates  used to calculate the amount.
If China Taiping intended to apply specific rates to the repairs,  it should have made that clear  
to Mr S when it told him to go ahead with the cheapest quote  so he could have made an 
informed decision when  selecting a quote.  Alternatively, it could have told him to call back 
with the quotes first to ensure they were  acceptable.  China Taiping essentially  committed 
itself, within  reason, to paying the cheapest quote if the claim was accepted  and I dont 
think Mr S could  have reasonably done more in terms  of how he sourced the contractors, 
and the number of quotes he obtained.
Ref: DRN58404684The loss adjusters say it faced  some unusually difficult circumstances  when dealing  with this 
claim. But Ive not seen  anything unusual or difficult  about  how Mr S presented  his claim or 
how he conducted himself   and the inference  that he is responsible  for the claim reaching 
our service,  is in my view,  unreasonable.
Initially the loss adjusters  declined the claim, and then it only offered a 50% contribution. On 
both occasions  little explanation was provided  in its decision letters. Mr S had already given 
the loss adjusters his repair costs, and the background information in respect  of the quotes.  
So overall, I dont  consider  it was unreasonable for him to no longer be prepared to discuss 
the matter  from his perspective he had nothing further to add and was waiting the loss 
adjusters final written position. 
China Taiping and it loss adjusters had numerous  opportunities  to settle the claim fairly, but 
it didnt do so until our investigator considered the complaint. Theres no doubt  in my mind 
that the claim journey was poor, and Im satisfied  that Mr S should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset  he was caused by the time it took for his repair  costs to be accepted; the 
lack of clarity  behind  the declinature and the later offers; and the pressure he likely felt to 
accept an unfair amount.  As such, Im increasing the compensation award to £200.
In respect of the interest,  I see no reason why Mr S shouldnt  receive  interest on the amount 
hes been out of pocket  by whilst  waiting  for his claim to be fairly settled.
As a final point, neither the compensation  nor the interest is intended as a punishment or 
penalty on China Taiping,  thats not the role of this service. Those awards reflect  the 
experience of Mr S during  the claim,  and him being deprived of the settlement  funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is China  Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd should:
add interest to the cash settlement  at a rate of 8% simple,  calculated from the date 
Mr S paid his contractor, to the date his claim was settled;  and
compensate Mr S £200  for the trouble and upset he was caused  by the handling  of 
his claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5840468