K821x#15complaint
Mr J is complaining that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS)  sold him a hire 
purchase agreement  that he says was unaffordable.
Mr J is represented by his father  and a solicitor firm in this complaint. But for ease  of 
reference I shall refer to any submissions his father and the solicitor have made as being 
made by Mr J.
background
In June 2016 Mr J entered  into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS  to acquire a car. 
The finance  was for around £75,000  to be repaid  over a period of 49 months. His monthly  
repayments were contracted to be around £970.  Mr J says that BMWFS shouldnt have 
allowed him to enter into this agreement.  He says that he suffers from severe bipolar 
disorder. And his monthly income was around £1,200 at the time he took out the agreement 
so clearly couldnt afford it.
Mr J says that his family went to the dealership where he was sold the car saying  that they 
thought it was inappropriate to have  sold the finance  agreement to Mr J and asked to return 
it. But Mr J says he wasnt allowed to do so.
Mr J says that his father eventually took the car away  from him and stored it in his fathers 
garage. He says his father  paid the finance payments, but ultimately couldnt keep up with 
them. And in April 2018 Mr J complained  to BMWFS that it shouldnt have sold the 
agreement. And he raised the following points:
1.He thinks BMWFS had breached its obligations to lend responsibly. He said that, based 
on his financial circumstances, its difficult to see how any reasonable or responsible 
lender would have allowed him to enter into this contract; and
2.He thinks the amount  of deposit  paid seems to have been exaggerated. He says that he 
only paid a deposit of £1,000, but the agreement sets out that he paid £3,853.
BMWFS didnt respond to Mr J, so he asked this service to step in. Our investigator thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. She said that shes reviewed Mr Js bank statements from 
the time and she said that Mr Js outgoings were higher  than his income  and most months 
he was spending  more than what was going into his account. She said that in some months 
he received some additional  income,  but she didnt think this was consistent, and his 
outgoings are always  high. So she didnt think Mr J could  afford  the loan repayments.
The investigator said that BMWFS hadnt provided any information about the affordability 
checks it carried out when  the hire purchase agreement was sold.  But she said that, had it 
done so, she thought  it would have realised that the hire purchase agreement  wasnt 
affordable. She said Mr J was allowed to borrow around £75,000 which  she thought  was a 
very high amount. And she said she would have  expected BMWFS  to carry out a more in 
depth affordability check.
So she thought BMWFS  should now allow Mr J to reject the car and put him back  in the 
position hed be in if it hadnt  lent him the money.  She thought that BMWFS should refund 
the interest that it charged.  She also thought that it should refund  the amount that Mr J paid 
to take out GAP insurance, tyre insurance and cosmetic accident repair. Finally she thought  
Ref: DRN54386132BMWFS should pay Mr J £400  for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused  
him.
BMWFS didnt respond to the investigators opinion, so the complaints  been  passed to me 
to decide.
I wrote  to BMWFS saying  that I intended  to uphold this complaint. I said I didnt think  
BMWFS did adequate finance checks when Mr J applied for the finance and I thought it 
would have been clear to BMWFS that the loan wasnt affordable had it done so. I thought, 
given the amount Mr J was looking  to borrow with monthly repayments of around  £970, I 
didnt think it was sufficient to simply review his credit file. 
I said I would have  expected BMWFS to have done a full affordability assessment and carry 
out an income expenditure assessment. I thought this would have revealed that Mr Js 
monthly income was around £1,200. And I thought his bank statements showed  that, before 
he entered into the finance agreement, he was struggling to keep  up with his monthly  
requirements and had very minimal  disposable income. So I was satisfied that BMWFS 
would have realised  that he wouldnt have been able to keep up with monthly repayments of 
£970.
So I thought  that BMWFS shouldnt have allowed Mr J to enter into this finance  agreement.  
Had it not, I said he wouldnt  have  had to repay anything  under the agreement. I also said 
that Mr Js father has also told us that at the time the car was acquired in June 2016 Mr J 
was exhibiting a bizarre pattern of behaviour, committed numerous  driving  related offences  
(parking and speeding in particular)  incurring financial penalties and covered a large 
distance of miles. I was satisfied the car was taken  off Mr J by his father and put into storage 
in August 2016. I said the latest  mileage on the car was around  8,000 which  I was satisfied 
shows that it wasnt used  since August 2016.
So I thought  BMWFS should put Mr J in the position hed be in if it hadnt allowed him to 
enter into the finance agreement. I thought it was unfair that he was out of pocket as a result 
of BMWFSs mistakes. So I was inclined to say that it should allow Mr J to return  the car. 
But I thought Mr J had had some use of the car. I said that under the terms of the 
agreement, Mr J was allowed to drive up to 10,000  miles per year and it seemed to me that 
hes used it for around 8,000 miles.  So I thought hed effectively had around nine months 
use of the car. But at the same time, I didnt think BMWFS should benefit from this. So I 
didnt think it should charge interest  or charges on the agreement. 
I thought the fairest  way to calculate what BMWFS can charge for fair usage was to divide 
the amount of credit (cash price  of the car minus Mr Js deposit  and balloon payment) by 48 
(the term of the agreement). This would  give a monthly repayment of £620.13 towards the 
capital. So I thought the total BMWFS could retain was £5,581.21 (the equivalent of nine 
months use). I said I understood  that Mr J has paid in excess of this figure to BMWFS. So I 
thought it should refund any overpayments hes made.
I also said that the finance agreement  set out that Mr J had paid a deposit, which I thought  
he should get back. I said Mr J has been deprived  of using the money he overpaid. So I 
thought BMWFS should also add 8% simple interest  per year to any refund (including the 
deposit) from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN54386133Lastly, I thought  it should also cancel the agreement  (if it hadnt already done  so) with 
nothing further  to pay. It should also remove any record of the agreement  including any 
adverse markers   from his credit file.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said that Mr J had been  in contact with BMWFS throughout and he 
never said that he didnt  have  possession of the car. It said that Mr J had told it that hed lost 
his job. It said it cant be held responsible if the consumers  circumstances  change  after he 
took out the finance. 
BMWFS said that it always  follows the regulators guidelines  in setting its underwriting  
criteria. It said that theres no obligation  to complete an income  and expenditure form at the 
point of sale. It said that there were no flags to show affordability issues. BMWFS  
acknowledged that I didnt feel this was sufficient but it said the regulator does. So it queried 
why I was following  a different  approach.
BMWFS said that Mr J hadnt  made  a single  payment towards  the finance, but still has the 
car. It said it sympathised with Mr J's situation  and it was willing  to discuss  the return of the 
car and discuss a possible repayment  plan for any outstanding balance. But it didnt agree 
with my proposed resolution as it didnt think it was fair. It thought it was being  heavily  
penalised when  it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive still decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr J is complaining that BMWFS shouldnt have agreed to offer the finance agreement to 
him as he says it should have known it wasnt affordable to him. BMWFS has said that it did 
the checks that it was required  to carry out. And it says it cant be held responsible if Mr Js 
circumstances change. I dont dispute  that BMWFS cant be held responsible for the fact that 
Mr Js circumstances change. But its still required  to treat a consumer positively and 
sympathetically when  they get into financial difficulties. Its also required to carry out 
proportionate checks to assess whether a finance  agreement is affordable  when Mr J 
applied for it. In this decision, Ive looked at whether BMWFS did enough to assess  whether  
Mr J could afford to keep up with the monthly repayments when it first offered the finance to 
him.
There arent set checks a lender has to carry out prior to deciding whether to lend to a 
consumer or not. But any checks  it does should  be proportionate to each  case, in particular  
taking into account  the size of the loan, the monthly repayments, the customers lending 
history and what the business  already  knows about  the customer.
I think the starting point  in assessing  this complaint has to be looking at the guidelines the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) set out in its rules  the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook 
(CONC). In this the FCA has said that the extent and scope of the creditworthiness 
assessment needs  to be proportionate to the individual circumstances of each case. So I 
think the checks BMWFS would  need  to do would be different for a loan of £2,000  as 
opposed to a loan of £75,000 (as in this case).
Ref: DRN54386134CONC sets out that there's no requirement  to do an income and expenditure form if it's 
obvious in the circumstances of the particular case that the customer is able to make 
repayments. But it also says that if a firm chooses  to not do an income  and expenditure 
assessment "it should keep in mind that the burden  would be on the firm to demonstrate, if 
challenged, that the absence of a material affordability risk was obvious such as to make  the 
process of determination  or estimation of the customer's income disproportionate".
So I think the key thing here is that BMWFS has to show that it was obvious at the time Mr J 
could afford  to repay this loan based on the credit check it did. Mr J's monthly  repayments  
were around  £970, which I think is a very significant  monthly financial commitment.  I think  its 
unlikely that just doing a credit check would have shown it was obvious that Mr J could have 
kept up with this payment. And BMWFS hasn't given me anything to show  it was clear  from 
this that Mr J could afford the repayments.  
So I think it should have  carried  out further checks - and in particular an income and 
expenditure assessment. As I set out before, had it done  this I think  it would have realised 
that Mr J couldn't  have  afforded the monthly  financial commitments.  Ive looked at Mr Js 
financial situation at the time. And I think, had BMWFS done  proportionate checks  to assess  
whether Mr J could keep up with the repayments,  I think it would have realised that he didnt 
have enough disposable income to do so.
I don't dispute  that Mr J hasnt made  any payments towards the loan since May 2018. But 
this coincides with when  BMWFS became aware of the complaint and also received Mr J's 
medical report. It seems  Mr J's father  had been  paying this finance for a significant period of 
time. But he was unable to keep up with these repayments, which is what  instigated  the 
complaint. I think this is because the agreement wasnt sustainable from the outset   and I 
think this all stems from BMWFSs decision to lend to him.
Ive taken into account BMWFSs comments that Mr J was in contact with BMWFS on some 
occasions throughout the finance term. And I can see that it appears Mr J did contact 
BMWFS a few times over the finance term which would have given BMWFS the impression 
that he was still using the car. But I also have to balance this against what  I know  about his 
mental health and the information Mr J and his father have given us. And I think its likely 
that the car was taken off him by his father  and I have found his father persuasive in this 
respect. 
It's also apparent  from BMWFSs internal file notes  that Mr J was continually looking to get 
out of the finance. He's asked for settlement  figures  and voluntary termination  rights on a 
number of occasions. I also note in the file that a warranty review of the car suggests that 
the mileage on the car was 7,774  on 18 August  2016. But the mileage on the car now is only 
around 8,000. I think this supports what Mr J has said that the car has only done  200 miles 
since August 2016. BMWFSs file notes  also confirm that in September  2017 the car had 
been stationary  for months.
However, while I think BMWFS shouldnt have  allowed Mr J to enter  into this finance  
agreement Mr J has had some use of it. But at the same  time, given BMWFS  shouldnt  have 
provided him with the agreement, I dont think it should benefit from doing so. So I dont think  
it should retain any interest payable on the agreement.
Also, I can see that Mr J took out GAP  insurance, tyre insurance and cosmetic  accident 
repair. And I dont think he wouldnt have incurred these costs had BMWFS not provided  him 
with the finance. However, the cost of this was added to the finance agreement  i.e. he 
Ref: DRN54386135didnt pay for them  separately.  And given  Im only requiring BMWFS  pay for the capital  Mr J 
paid on the finance for the time Mr J was using it, I dont think  Mr J is out of pocket as a 
result of this. So I dont think BMWFS needs to refund any of this.
Its also clear  to me that this matter has caused  Mr J a lot of distress  and inconvenience  
especially taking into account  his mental health. It seems to have caused a lot of acrimony in 
his family,  which I think is a direct result  of BMWFSs decision to lend the money  to him. The 
investigator recommended it pay £400  in compensation and I think  thats fair.
So I still think the way I set out what  I thought  was a fair remedy previously is fair. So for the 
reasons Ive set out above I think BMW should do the following  to put things  right:
1.Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr J;
2.Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay - and arrange for details  to be removed 
from Mr Js credit  file;
3.The total amount  that BMWFS can retain  is £5,581.21 (the equivalent  of 9 months use).  I 
understand that Mr J has paid in excess of this figure to BMWFS. So it should refund any 
overpayments he's made*;
4.Refund the deposit Mr J paid. The agreement  sets out that Mr J paid £3,853 towards  the 
deposit. But Mr J has been consistent  in saying  that he only paid £1,000 towards it. So I 
think BMWFS  should  refund £1,000*;
5.Pay Mr J £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
*BMWFS should add 8% simple interest  to these payments from the date they were paid 
until BMWFS  refunds  them. If BMWFS  thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  
to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require BMW Financial Services(GB)  Limited  to compensate  Mr J in line with above.  Mr J is 
represented by a solicitor  firm and BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should pay this 
compensation directly  to this firm for it to distribute.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5438613