K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without  carrying  out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
background
In May 2018  118 118 Money  approved a loan of £2,000 for Mr K, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at approximately £232 per month over a term of 12 months.  When  assessing the 
application, 118 118 Money  asked  Mr K about his financial circumstances and carried  out a 
credit check  before approving the lending.
Mr K made his first repayment as planned in May 2018, but then settled  the loan in full the 
following month. It is not clear why. Mr K has mentioned needing to borrow to cover this 
loan. He says he was borrowing from a range of lenders  around  this time.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and didnt  think it was unreasonable  of 118 118 
Money to have lent to Mr K. He disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K clearly  feels  very strongly about his complaint  and says that 118 118 Money should 
have carried out further checks before approving his loan, rather  than just relying on what he 
told it.
But I need to look at what information 118 118 Money had when considering Mr Ks loan 
application, and what information it should  have gathered, given what it knew about Mr K 
and his circumstances.
118 118 Money asked Mr K about  his income  and expenditure.  He disclosed monthly 
earnings of £1,432 and outgoings of just under £742. Those outgoings  were  broken down 
into various categories, including housing costs, council tax, insurance, food, and amounts 
needed to service other debts. £200  of Mr Ks declared outgoings came  under this final 
category. But as he reported that he was single and living with his parents,  the comparatively 
modest amounts  he declared for other  monthly living costs dont seem implausible. So, 
based on what Mr K told it about his financial  situation, 118 118 Money could have 
concluded that he had a disposable income of nearly £700. Clearly more  than enough to 
service a monthly repayment  of around  £232.
However, in addition to asking  Mr K about his financial circumstances, 118 118 Money 
carried out a credit check, which showed  a slightly different  picture to that disclosed by Mr K. 
From the credit  check, I can see that Mr K had two active credit card accounts. I can also 
see there was a loan which he was due to repay £250 towards and there was also an open 
loan which  did not appear to have  a forthcoming repayment. The credit check  shows  that 
this loan was started  in March 2018  and the current balance was the same as the starting 
balance. I also note that the check didnt  show that Mr K was behind  on his repayment  of this 
loan. This documented regular monthly  debt burden was made up of one unsecured  loan 
and two credit cards,  both with balances comfortably  within  the modest agreed credit limits. 
Ref: DRN58283042It also showed that Mr K had clearly been in some difficulties in 2013 and 2014 when several 
defaults were recorded.
I accept that the information 118 118 Money had, in the form of Mr Ks disclosures and the 
credit check  it completed, might not have  actually presented a full picture of Mr Ks 
circumstances. But 118 118 Money wasnt advancing a particularly large  sum of money;  the 
term of the loan was towards the shorter end of the spectrum; and it was at the very start of 
a lending relationship with Mr K. And in these circumstances,  it was entitled to trust and rely 
on the information he gave it. Mr K disagrees, saying that he could have told 118 118 Money 
anything regards  [his] income [his] expenditure, and it should have verified what  he 
told them.  But I dont think that would be proportionate, and what  the regulations require is 
for lenders to carry  out proportionate checks.  I have seen no evidence to suggest  that 118 
118 Money should  have  automatically disbelieved what  Mr K was telling it, or that it knew  
something additional via the credit check which should have alerted it to undisclosed issues. 
118 118 Money of course had to take into account  all the information it did have. And 
although the credit check showed a higher level of indebtedness than Mr K had disclosed, 
that was in fact only slight. Mr K has said that he had multiple payday loans at the time, but 
that isnt what is shown on the credit  check. As set out above, only two unsecured loans 
appear to have been open at that time,  and the next payment he was due to make was for 
£250. Taking into account the active accounts showing on Mr Ks credit check, and the 
higher debt burden that showed over what he had declared, the evidence  still suggested that 
Mr K had a disposable income of around £600.  Again,  enough to service the monthly  
repayment under consideration.
The repayments he would have made  on his two credit card balances werent, of course, set 
in stone. So Ive gone on to think carefully  about this and whether it might make  a difference. 
I can see Mr K had been making  healthy repayments and reducing already small balances  
further in the months preceding his application  to 118 118 Money. Had he, in fact, chosen to 
repay the full balance  on both cards, that would have amounted  to £251. If he had decided  
to do that, he would have needed  around £500 to service his debts in the approaching 
month, taking into account  the unsecured loan requiring a £250 repayment   £300 more  
than he declared  to 118 118 Money.  But even under those circumstances, he would have 
been left with an estimated disposable  income of about £400, from which  to make his 
monthly repayment to 118 118 Money of £232.  (He would  also,  of course, have then had no 
credit card debt if hed paid off his balances in full.) So even  taken at its highest, most 
expensive, level, the information in the credit check doesnt show that Mr K lacked the 
disposable income to take on this debt.
Ive also taken into account the evident  difficulties that Mr K had been having in 2013 and 
2014. But by the time he applied for this loan, those defaults were sufficiently historic to 
mean that they wouldnt automatically lead to a need either to decline the application or ask 
for further  information.  In fact, the check showed  that Mr K had successfully serviced  and 
settled a range of borrowing since  those  difficulties occurred.
Mr K says that he was unable to make  the regular paymentsand...had to take another  
loan out to cover this. But that isnt what the documentary evidence suggests to me and 
based on what 118 118 Money saw at the time it agreed to lend, there was nothing suggest  
that Mr K would struggle to repay the loan.  As explained at the start of this decision, Mr K 
made the first monthly repayment as expected and then settled this loan in the second  
month. There is no evidence that he was struggling, for example, such as requesting a 
Ref: DRN58283043payment plan or failing  to make monthly  payments. I dont know  why he chose to settle the 
loan so quickly, but it wouldnt appear to be because he was unable to make payments.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that 118 118 Money  ought to have carried  out more  in-depth 
checks than it did. And the information  it had showed that this borrowing ought to have  been  
sustainable for Mr K.
my final decision
Having considered all the evidence, I dont  think that Madison CF UK Limited did anything  
wrong, so I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5828304