K820x#14complaint
Ms F says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms F bought the policy at a meeting  in 2006. She was employed at the time as a practice 
manager and had been there ten years.  Shes told us she was entitled to at least 12 months  
full sick pay and at least three months full pay for redundancy. She has also told us of 
missing work with health issues  in the year of the sale and eight years before the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for Ms F for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim RBS says the policy offered to pay £580 a 
month to help Ms F with mortgage related  costs  and cost £31.61 a month at the time. 
RBS has told us it has no evidence of Ms F having  a mortgage with it at the time of the sale.
Ms Fs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Ms Fs representative says:
RBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms F wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Ms Fs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  RBS should have told Ms F about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means RBS should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms F and the impact  they would  
have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Ms F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Ms F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN58573722my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Fs complaint.
The mortgage itself was not with RBS. That means  the unfair relationship  provisions set out 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable  to 
this complaint. Id mention also that if Ms Fs mortgage started at the time of this sale,  it was 
likely an FCA regulated  mortgage to which those provisions would not apply in any case.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
RBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN58573723Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so RBS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Ms Fs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If RBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether RBS gave Ms F sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms F, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Ms F suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms F and RBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms F know  she had a choice?
RBS had to make it clear  the PPI was optional. Ms F hasnt said anything  to make me think  
she was pressured  into the PPI - shes said it was just included  as part of the package with 
her mortgage. But Ive seen nothing to suggest  Ms F had a mortgage  with RBS. So I dont 
Ref: DRN58573724think RBS included the PPI as part of Ms Fs mortgage package.  Also, as Ms Fs mortgage 
was held with a separate provider, I think it likely she was aware the PPI was something 
separate from her mortgage. Taking  everything into account, I think  its more  likely Ms F 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without undue pressure.
did RBS provide advice?
RBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Taking into account also what  Ms F has 
said, Im persuaded  RBS didnt provide advice. This means RBS didnt have to check  if the 
PPI was suitable for Ms F. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable Ms F to make an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms F was given  a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms F would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much it might cost. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  RBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms F agreed  to take the policy. So I dont  think RBS gave Ms F sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  
to take the policy,  including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Ms Fs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Ms F about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Fs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Ms F has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
Ref: DRN58573725industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
RBS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did RBSs shortcomings have on Ms F? To what extent did she suffer  loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found RBS didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Ms F. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had RBS done  things properly.
Ms F says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms F had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms F chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude  
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Ms F thought she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms F has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Ms F knew she would have to pay something for 
the policy, I dont  have anything to show RBS told her the exact premium at the point Ms F 
applied. Having said that, it seems unlikely Ms F wouldve  taken the policy without  an idea of 
the approximately cost. My view on this is reinforced  given that it appears Ms F took the PPI 
out separately from taking  her mortgage,  so its very unlikely the cost was mixed  in with or 
combined with other costs  associated with the mortgage. Also, when she was informed of 
the cost or started to pay it, she mightve raised that with RBS at that time or reconsidered  
her decision  if this had been significantly different to what she expected when she decided  to 
take the policy. Overall,  Im not persuaded Ms F wouldve found the cost unacceptable if she 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Ive nothing to show RBS made clear what Ms F would get for a successful 
claim. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms F had expectations about  the monthly benefit the 
policy would pay that were significantly different to what the policy  actually did pay. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms F thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought, were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Ms F wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, for a disability claim, Ms F be unable  to do her own job or a similar 
job she was able or may reasonably have  become qualified  to do, based on her 
education, training  and ability; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
Ref: DRN58573726I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Ms F pause for thought   and may well have  caused  her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms F from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Ms Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms F was in permanent  employment, for 
example, and, although she had health  issues, the policy didnt exclude claims arising from 
pre-existing health issues. So, I think Ms F still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms F would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms F had known she could only claim for disability if she were unable  to do her own job, or 
a similar  job she was able or may reasonably have become  qualified  to do, based on her 
education, training  and ability,  this might have played into her thinking about  what to do. And 
I accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if she were  unable to carry on her own job, the chances 
she would  be able to take up a similar  job would also, in all probability, be limited.
RBS may not have  told Ms F that any claim she made would be limited to 12 months. This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for. But her redundancy pay 
was less than 12 months  pay and the policy sickness benefit was payable on top of Ms Fs 
work sick pay. In those  circumstances, I consider it likely Ms F wouldve still thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly payments  to help with her mortgage costs would be of benefit and 
help her manage if she were unable  to work  in the circumstances the policy covered. The 
policy allowed multiple claims  to be made,  could  help reduce Ms Fs outgoings at a difficult  
and uncertain time if she were unemployed or too sick to work  and, by helping with mortgage 
costs, the benefit  would make it less likely her home would be placed at risk in that situation.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Ms F wouldve still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely she thought  
she was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help her manage  the consequences  if she 
were made redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Ms F wouldve taken the policy in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Ms Fs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN58573727the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms F would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Ms F believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms F in the position  she wouldve been in if she had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  she would not have taken  the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still taken 
the policy had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude RBS should pay Ms F compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Ms F thinks RBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described  
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of RBSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why RBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  RBS gave Ms F, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2006 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Fs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find RBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms F and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find RBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms F in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Im grateful  to Ms F for her courtesy throughout our consideration  of this matter.
Ref: DRN58573728my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5857372