K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited declined his request to 
enter into a further  financial  agreement to refinance  a final payment on a car. The final 
payment was charged to him and because he couldnt pay it he had to hand back the car. 
There were delays in collecting the car which affected Mr Ds credit  file.
background
In June 2014 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement with 
VWFS. The price of the car was £29,225.  A deposit of £5500  was paid leaving 323,795 to be 
paid over 47 months with a final payment  of £15,308.30.
Towards the end of the agreement Mr D asked  VWFS if he could refinance  the final 
payment. VWFS  declined.  It said the agreement was in arrears and that these would have to 
be cleared before a refinance  application could be submitted.
Mr D paid the arrears and contacted VWFS again to request a refinance.  Shortly afterwards 
VWFS advised Mr D that his application  had been declined. It said the contract date had 
passed and the final payment was due because the car hadnt been  handed  back. VWFS 
offered Mr D the option of part exchanging  the car, handing it back or seeking finance  
elsewhere.
Mr D told VWFS he wanted  to hand  the car back. The hand back was completed 
approximately 6 weeks later.
Mr D remained  unhappy that VWFS hadnt agreed  to a refinance and complained to this 
service. He was also unhappy  that the car hadnt  been collected when it should have been 
and that the outstanding final payment had remained on his credit file which  had affected his 
ability to arrange  finance to purchase another car.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said it was up to VWFS whether it 
offered a further  finance agreement or not and that because the agreement had come to an 
end and the car hadnt been returned,  VWFS hadnt  acted unfairly by asking Mr D for the 
final payment. In relation to the delays in collecting the car, the investigator said it shouldnt 
have taken so long for the car to be collected  or for Mr Ds credit  file to be amended.  She 
recommended that VWFS  paid compensation of £150 for the inconvenience caused to Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed contacted VWFS to try and return the car but it wouldnt 
allow him to do so and had passed him from one department to another. He also said hed 
had to take out credit for his new car at a higher interest rate due to the adverse entry on his 
credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the final payment was due to be paid at the end of the agreement  in June 
2018. I appreciate  that Mr D contacted  VWFS  approximately 2 weeks  before the agreement 
was due to end and asked to refinance the final payment. I can see that at this time there 
were arrears  on the account, so I dont think it was unreasonable for VWFS to ask for the 
account to be brought  up to date before a further  finance application could  be submitted. I 
Ref: DRN59866462can see that Mr D paid the arrears the day before the agreement  ended and made his 
refinance application straightaway.
Irrespective of the outcome of the refinance  application, I dont think  there  wouldve been  
enough time to process the application  before the agreement ended.  I appreciate that Mr D 
was disappointed that his refinance application was declined.  Ultimately this was a decision 
by the underwriters and not by VWFS. Its not something which  VWFS has any influence  
over. As Ive already said, the agreement had ended before the outcome of the refinance 
application was known, so I dont think VWFs made an error or acted unfairly by asking Mr D 
to pay the final payment.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im unable to uphold the part of Mr Ds complaint which relates to 
the refinance application.
In relation to the delays in collecting the car, Mr D has said that he contacted  VWFS and 
asked to return the car as soon as he was made  aware that his refinance application had 
been declined.  Ive taken what Mr D has said into account but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that he advised VWFS that he wanted to hand the car back before the date which  
VWFS says it spoke to him about this, which was 14 August 2018. 
I can see that a third party was meant to collect the car on 30 August 2018 but this didnt 
happen. Mr D has said that he suffered financial  consequences as a result of the failure to 
collect the car. Hes said he had to continue to pay insurance on the car for an extra month 
until it was finally collected,  and that when  he came to arrange  finance on a new car he had 
to pay a higher  rate of interest due to the fact that the outstanding final payment owed to 
VWFS was showing  as a default on his credit file.
I havent been provided with details of Mr Ds additional insurance costs. Nor have  I seen 
any evidence that he had to pay a higher rate of interest on his new finance  agreement.  That 
said, I accept in principle  that Mr D was adversely impacted by the delay in collecting the 
car. The car was collected by a third party acting on behalf of VWFS, so ultimately  this is 
VWFSs responsibility.
VWFS has said that it chased up the third party on 10 September 2018  and that it was a 
busy time of year. But I dont think a further  delay of 2 weeks is acceptable. Mr D was 
inconvenienced by waiting at home for a collection which didnt happen, and he was 
adversely impacted by the delays  in collecting the car after that.
VWFS has said that the outstanding final payment was removed from Mr Ds credit file in 
mid October  2018.  If the car had been collected  when it should  have been at the end of 
August 2018,  Mr D would  have been less severely impacted.
Taking everything into account,  I think VWFS should  compensate Mr D for the 
inconvenience caused to him by the late collection of the car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited must  pay compensation of £150 to Mr D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Ref: DRN59866463Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986646