K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Barry  Grainger Ltd trading  as BG Insurance  didnt renew his motor  
insurance policy, meaning that he was driving  uninsured when he had an accident.
background 
Mr K insured  his vehicle  through  BG  a broker which provided Mr K with a policy 
underwritten by another company as insurer. Mr K took his policy out in 2016 and renewed it 
in 2017.
In June 2018, the policy expired. A few days later, Mr K was involved in an accident and 
gave BGs  details to the other  party. The other partys insurer  contacted Mr K to explain that 
he wasnt insured   which Mr K says was the first time he realised that.
Mr K complained. He said hed expected  the policy to renew automatically and hed 
assumed he was insured. He said he hadnt  received anything from BG to tell him that the 
policy wouldnt renew or would expire. He hadnt  been told he was uninsured and it wasnt 
fair that he wasnt covered for the accident.
BG said that the policy didnt renew  automatically,  and never had. The previous year,  it had 
written to Mr K inviting him to renew,  and he had rung it to do so. It said that in 2018  it had 
changed its approach and now used  email rather than post. It said the insurer had decided it 
no longer wanted  to insure Mr K, and it couldnt find him an alternative policy,  so it couldnt 
insure him after the policy expired.  It said it had sent him an email to alert him to a 
notification to that effect in its online portal.
Mr K searched his records and found the email.  Hes shown it to us. The sender  is not given 
as BG; the emails sent in the name of an individual staff member. Nothing in the subject  line 
or body  of the email suggests its from BG or mentioned insurance. It appears as an email 
from a random person  Mr K didnt know inviting him to click a link to access an online portal 
 without any indication  of what its about  or that its from a reputable  company Mr K does 
business with.
Mr K accepted hed received the email. But hed assumed it was spam  and hadnt opened it. 
So he didnt know the policy wouldnt  be renewed.  BG had always  written to him in the past. 
He couldnt be expected  to know the importance  of the email.
BG accepted the email could have  been clearer. It said it had redesigned its emails so they 
would be clear they were  from BG and werent  just sent in the name of the individual staff 
member who processed it. But it said that Mr Ks policy didnt auto-renew, it never had, and 
ultimately it was his responsibility  to make sure he was insured.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was fair to expect BG to indemnify Mr K for the costs  of the 
accident. But following  his involvement  BG offered Mr K £100  compensation for not sending 
him the letter that his policy couldnt  be renewed in an email that clear it was from BG. Mr K 
didnt accept that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52087652Mr Ks said that his policy should have auto-renewed and he had expected  it would as it had 
in previous years. But, in fact, it hadnt   hed only had it two years,  so there had only been 
one previous renewal. In 2017,  BG wrote   by post  to Mr K telling him that his policy would 
expire and inviting him to get in touch if he wanted to renew. It said the policy would lapse  if 
he didnt. Mr K did contact BG, and agreed a new one year policy to June 2018.
Nothing in the policy documents Mr K was sent for the new policy  in 2017 suggested it would 
renew automatically in 2018. The policy had never  done  that before. The documents   and 
Mr Ks conversation with BG in 2017   were clear  that this was a one year policy  which 
would end in June 2018. Im satisfied that BG didnt give Mr K the impression, or create the 
expectation, that it would renew itself automatically  without  him having to apply for a new 
policy. In other words, BG made  clear  that Mr K was only insured until June 2018. 
I agree  that, ultimately, its Mr Ks responsibility  to make sure that he was insured before he 
drove. He knew  or ought to have  done  that his policy would expire on 20 June  2018  and 
wouldnt automatically renew, so should  have made sure either  that hed asked BG to renew 
it (like the previous  year)  or found  alternative cover.
That said,  I do think BGs communication  was poor. The email  it sent gives no impression 
that its anything  to do with insurance,  or from BG. It looks like a random spam email  with a 
link that no responsible email user would click on. I quite understand why Mr K didnt click on 
it, and so didnt  see the letter informing him that his policy wouldnt be renewed. Im pleased  
that BG has said it has improved the format of its emails which were clearly  in the format 
sent to Mr K  not fit for purpose.
But before I can require BG to indemnify Mr K for the accident   to treat him as if he were 
insured and pay his costs   I need to be satisfied that it was BGs failure that led to him 
being uninsured. And, while the email  was undoubtedly inadequate,  I dont think I can 
conclude that. If the policy  was one that auto-renewed, and BG had changed that and only 
used this email to tell Mr K, my conclusions might  be different. But this policy had never  
auto-renewed. BG had never led Mr K to believe it would.  It had clearly  told him when the 
policy would end. While the email would have reminded  Mr K to act on the policy term 
ending, he already did  or should   know that. It wasnt BGs  failure  to send this letter in a 
format that Mr K would  know  to read that led to Mr K driving while  uninsured. So I dont think 
it would  be fair to require  BG to indemnify him in these circumstances. BG has offered  £100 
compensation for not sending him the email in an appropriate format,  and I think thats a fair 
offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Barry Grainger Ltd has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of £100 compensation, which it should now pay to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208765