K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that The Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds) refused to pay his unemployment  claim.  
Any reference to Lloyds in this decision includes its agents.
background
Mr G was working at a particular location,  S, when  the contract his employer had to provide 
services at S came  to an end. This happened  on 22 July 2018. Mr G was on annual leave at 
the time so he feels he became unemployed on 5 August 2018 as this is the point  he says 
his employer couldnt find any suitable alternative employment for him.
Mr G was offered different jobs by his employer but he says they werent  suitable  for him.
Mr G made  an unemployment claim under an accident, sickness  and unemployment policy  
he had with Lloyds.  But this was declined by Lloyds. It says his departure  from employment 
was voluntary. And the policy only covers him for involuntary unemployment which  is 
defined as any unemployment forced  upon an individual by a third party and not a route  they 
have taken themselves .
Lloyds also explained  that Mr G needs to prove  his claim  and supply all the necessary 
evidence to do this. And it referred to the terms of the policy which  say, 
You must supply and pay for all information or evidence we ask for to support your 
initial claim and throughout your claim.
Mr G complained to Lloyds about  its decision. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint - it said 
the decision to decline his claim was made reasonably. But it also agreed  itd consider any 
further evidence  that Mr G had.
In later correspondence, Lloyds told Mr G that itd subsequently been  ascertained  that a 
settlement agreement was drawn  up in order to bring his employment  to an end. And it felt 
this had reinforced its decision to decline the claim.  
Mr G was unhappy with this so he came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt think Lloyds had declined his claim 
unreasonably. This is because she didnt agree that Mr Gs situation satisfied the policy 
definition of involuntarily unemployment. She explained:
-It was reasonable  for Mr Gs employer to make  a number of offers to Mr G for work in 
other locations. And it was Mr Gs choice to decline this work.  
-She couldnt agree that the employment ended  involuntarily as Mr G wasnt  forced to 
become unemployed in light of these  offers  of work in other  locations.  
-She felt that its more  likely that Mr Gs employment was terminated  voluntarily. And 
this isnt covered  by the terms of his policy.
-Mr Gs employer had issued a number of letters about how Mr Gs employment came 
to an end which were  contradictory.
-Lloyds referred to a settlement agreement and contradictory statements from Mr Gs 
employer as significant factors in its decision.  
-Mr G refused to send a copy of the settlement agreement to our service.
Ref: DRN53970752Mr G told our investigator that he was receiving  Jobseekers Allowance  and so his claim in 
this matter should be paid. Our investigator didnt  see things the same  she explained this 
isnt evidence that he became unemployed involuntarily. In order to make a successful claim 
under his policy with Lloyds,  Mr G would need to meet both:
-the criteria of receiving Jobseekers  Allowance;  and
-the definition  of involuntary unemployment .
Mr G disagrees.  He says the investigator  has sided with Lloyds and he didnt have  any 
choice to continue  his employment   he says it was forced unemployment  by not finding me 
a suitable alternative  employment. And he says the letter dated 19 December supports this 
and supersedes all previous  letters  from his former  employer which  should  be ignored.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached  the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter.
Firstly, I think its important to set out the various statements made by Mr Gs previous 
employer about  the end of his employment with it. 
In late September  2018, Mr Gs employer sent an email saying, 
We are still offering [Mr G] work. However he is refusing so technically he is still 
employed by ourselves. 
In early November 2018, Mr Gs employer sent him a letter  which set out the offers  of 
employment it had made  and says,
As the company feels it has made all reasonable attempts to offer you alternative 
employment all of which you have  rejected  or refused it has now been deemed  that 
you have technically placed  yourself  unemployable  or willing  to accept any 
alternative employment we therefore deem  this as your resignation from the 
company.
You will be paid any outstanding monies,  on the next pay run, and your last day of 
service will be recorded as 2nd November 2018.
In late November 2018, Mr Gs employer sent him a letter  saying,
Ref: DRN53970753Further to your request to have your employment terminated and back  dated to the 
6th August  2018. Given you have not worked  since the 5th of August 2018 and as a 
gesture of good  will we are prepared to do this "without prejudice".
In December 2018, Mr Gs employer wrote to him saying,
We have decided to terminate your employment because  we could not find you a 
suitable alternative employment since 05/08/2018. Your last date of employment will 
be registered as 5 August 2018 and according to our records  no outstanding pay or 
accrued annual leave is owed.
These statements  about how Mr Gs employment  came to an end are contradictory. I 
appreciate that Mr G wants all statements made  by his former employer before December to 
be ignored. But I dont  think  that our service should  reasonably or fairly ignore the earlier 
correspondence from his employer when considering this matter.  
Further, after the initial complaint had been  raised  with it, Lloyds became aware  of the 
existence of a settlement agreement. I understand Mr G says he cant disclose anything that 
breaches confidentiality. Even so, I still think its reasonable  for Mr G to provide information 
about his employment ending  including a copy of the settlement agreement  - so that 
Lloyds can assess his claim. It was  and is  Mr Gs responsibility to prove  that his 
unemployment met the terms  of the policy. 
Having taken all of this into account,  I think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to decline Mr Gs 
claim.
I know Mr G will be disappointed  with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Lloyds  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5397075