K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has offered him for mis-
selling payment protection insurance  (PPI) on a credit card.  
background 
Mr M bought  the PPI in 1997, at the same  time as he applied  for an RBS Advanta  card. 
Mr M thought the policy was mis-sold.
RBS investigated  the complaint and agreed that it had been mis-sold. It offered to put Mr M 
in the position hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy.
But because of the time that had passed, it didnt know how Mr M had used the card  so it 
used assumptions to work out what it had to pay him. It worked out it needed to pay 
£1,268.72.
Mr M thinks he should get more.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and thought  that the offer 
RBS made  to Mr M was fair. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has already  upheld Mr Ms complaint, I wont  look at how it sold the PPI policy  to 
him. Ive just looked at whether the offer RBS has made is fair.
Mr M took the first card and policy in 1997. He thinks he closed the card account  and 
cancelled the PPI policy in 2001.  RBS has accepted that there were no transactions  on the 
card after 2001  and that it had a zero balance from that date, although it has said the card 
remained open until 2003. 
The PPI was added to a credit card.  So ordinarily  Id expect RBS to pay back  the difference 
between what Mr M owed  and what he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI on the 
account. In Mr Ms case, though, RBS doesnt have any statements. This isnt surprising 
given how long ago the card closed,  so I dont think this is unreasonable. 
To work out what it needs  to pay Mr M, RBS has assumed Mr M had borrowed  his entire 
credit limit by the day the card ended, and that the balance Mr M owed increased steadily to 
this amount from the date the card opened.
RBS has then refunded  the PPI it would have  charged on these balances. Its worked this 
out to be £459.38. It has added  £145.16, representing the interest  it would have charged on 
those premiums at the card rate. And as RBS assumes Mr M repaid the card in full in 2001, 
it has also added simple  interest (the rate is 8% a year) from the date the card closed until 
Mr M gets the money  back,  to compensate  Mr M for the time hes been  out of pocket. After 
tax, RBS said this simple interest  was £664.18.
Ref: DRN57749292Mr M thinks he should get more. Instead of increasing gradually, Mr M assumes he always 
had a balance  close to his credit limit. He says he used the card for business  expenses,  and 
so would have  kept a high balance. So he thinks he should get back  more  in premiums and 
interest. Mr M feels  strongly he should get more  because  of the way RBS has handled his 
complaint. And he doesnt believe that RBS hasnt kept the statements for his account.
So Ive thought about what  Mr M has said alongside  the other information I have about the 
card.
Mr M has said that he thinks RBS is lying about  not having statements.  I understand he 
feels strongly about this, but I dont think RBS is lying. I think  it probably  removed  the 
statements from its system when it thought they would no longer be needed, which I think is 
reasonable given the amount of time that has passed.
RBS has provided copies of the credit card applications for this and a later card.  This 
suggests in 1998 the credit limit for this card was £2,500.
Later statements, from 2003, show a credit  limit of £4,200. But by this time it looks like Mr M 
was no longer using the card: the information Ive seen suggests  Mr M didnt use the card  
and so wasnt charged for PPI  from at least  May 2001 onwards. So I dont think  its 
unreasonable for RBS to use £2,500 in its calculation.
I note what Mr M says about his spending  habits. He has told us he travelled a lot and used 
his credit cards extensively  while he was away. So hes assumed his balances were  at their 
limits all the time. Equally, the application  forms RBS has sent me shows that Mr M had a 
zero balance at the time he applied for a later card in 1998  and the application form for this 
1997 card records he had two other credit cards, but owed less than his credit limit. So the 
other information Ive seen doesnt  support Mr Ms view that he always  used his cards  at 
their maximum level.
RBS assumes the balance increased  steadily from zero to the full limit over the whole period 
he had the card. It says its unlikely Mr M used his credit limits fully from start to finish. In the 
absence of more  accurate  information  about how Mr M used the card, I dont think  this 
assumption is unreasonable.  The offer includes an amount  to represent the premiums, the 
interest charged on those  premiums and simple interest to compensate Mr M for the time 
hes been out of pocket.
Ive also looked  at Mr Ms calculations. Mr M has worked out for himself what  RBS should 
pay him, based on a £2,500, £4,200 and £5,000 credit limit. The method Mr M has used isnt 
the approach  Id expect a business to use  and as Ive explained I dont think  its most likely  
Mr M always borrowed all his credit limit. 
In all circumstances, I think what RBS has offered is fair.
Finally, I note Mr M is very unhappy  with the service hes received from RBS. He feels his 
integrity has been questioned, and he feels hes been lied to. I see it did take RBS a while  to 
sort things  out  and at first RBS didnt think it had sold PPI to Mr M. But given that Mr M 
was complaining about a card that closed nearly  18 years ago, I can also understand why 
RBS had limited information with which  to investigate  the complaint. 
Ref: DRN57749293I note that RBS has separately  offered  Mr M £100  for the trouble and upset it caused  and 
Mr M initially accepted this amount. I should  explain that if I award compensation for the 
trouble and upset  a business has caused  this is not to punish the business  it would reflect 
the impact the businesss actions have had on Mr M. Looking  at everything thats happened,  
I dont think what RBS has done justifies a further  award.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc has offered fair 
compensation for Mr Ms complaint about mis-selling PPI. If it hasnt done so already, it 
should now bring the calculation up to date and pay him the compensation.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.  
Edward Hardman
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5774929