K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that when  he deposited  some money into an Immediate Deposit  Machine  
belonging to Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) £500  went  missing. Mr E says the bank 
hasnt credited this into his account.  And hes also unhappy that it didnt contact  him about 
the whereabouts of this money when it said it would.
background
Mr E went  into a Halifax branch on 26 April 2018 to make a deposit  of £900 into his bank 
account. He used one of its immediate  deposit machines (IDM) to do this. But he said while 
the IDM rejected  £400  it accepted £500. Mr E said a member  of branch staff came to assist  
him. Mr E tried to pay the £400 into the IDM again  but it showed  him an out of service 
notice and returned his £400.  The member of staff opened the IDM in Mr Es presence.  But 
the £500 couldnt be found. And the money hadnt  credited to Mr Es account. So, Mr E said 
hes lost £500.  
Mr E said the member of staff told him they would count the money in the machine the 
following day to see if the IDM balanced correctly.  And he said he was told theyd contact 
him to let him know  the result. Mr E then deposited  the remaining £400 the IDM had rejected 
over the counter into his account.
By 28 April 2018 Mr E said he still hadnt heard  from the branch about the whereabouts of 
the money he had tried to deposit. So, he telephoned Halifax to raise a complaint about what 
had happened. In his complaint,  Mr E said Halifax had taken his money and he said he was 
unhappy that the branch  manager hadnt called him back to discuss  what had happened. 
After Halifax investigated  it didnt uphold his complaint.  It said the information it received 
showed all three  IDMs  that were in the branch Mr E used on 26 April 2018 balanced. And it 
said it found no errors or discrepancies.  So it declined to reimburse  Mr E the £500 he said 
the IDM lost. But it did accept there had been  a delay in the branch responding to Mr E so it 
offered him £50 compensation to reflect this. 
Mr E declined this offer.  And, being dissatisfied  with Halifaxs response  to his complaint, he 
referred it to our service.  Our investigator empathised with him but didnt recommend that Mr 
Es complaint should be upheld. They told Mr E that they didnt think Halifax  had done 
anything wrong. And they didnt think it needed  to give Mr E the £500 he said he had lost 
because of the evidence Halifax had presented to show that the IDMs had balanced on the 
date Mr E had used one in branch.  But Mr E disagreed and asked for the matter  to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN57971372Mr E is unhappy that the CCTV hasnt been retained  by the branch. And I can appreciate  his 
frustration in view of the fact that the raised his concerns  about  the whereabouts of his 
missing funds with staff immediately. Its disappointing that this footage is no longer 
available. But I cant say with any certainty  that this will have given any greater  
understanding about what happened  or wouldve definitely shown the exact  amount  Mr E 
was trying to pay into the machine. I cannot consider evidence  that isnt available. And I 
cant speculate on what it may or may not have shown for that reason. I have to base my 
decision on the available evidence. 
I can appreciate Mr E is frustrated because  he believes he paid in a total of £900 and feels  
hes lost out on £500. But I havent seen any evidence to show £900 was the amount 
actually paid in. 
Halifax it said it was regularly presented with claims from customers  that money had been 
lost in the IDMs it has in branch. But it explained  that the majority of those  claims were  
resolved when staff opened the IDM with the customer present. Halifax  told us that in those 
situations the money had been rejected into the divert  box, which would then be returned to 
the customer. Halifax said that it was far less common for the money  to be sent to the main 
compartment. But in those scenarios the money  was found and returned when the IDM was 
balanced the next day.
Here, Halifax  said that a member of staff opened  the IDM Mr E had tried to use in front of 
him. And it said there  wasnt any loose money  stuck in it. Halifax  also said when the member 
of staff checked the retract box there  was no money found there too. 
Halifax told our service  that no faults  were recorded  against any of the IDMs in the branch 
Mr E attended on 26 April 2018. And Ive seen evidence that Halifax checked the three  
IDMs in its branch the following day, which balanced correctly. Its provided  our service with 
the journal rolls of transactions from each IDM from the date in question. These  are records  
that show the IDM activity  on the date Mr E used it. They detail  the cash and denominations 
paid into the IDM. I can see that they were checked the following day by Halifax.  And, based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the amounts balanced with no discrepancies.  
The records  Halifax produced confirm there  wasnt any additional money unaccounted  for 
that had been deposited in the machine or not assigned to a customers  account.  I think,  its 
more likely than not, that if Mr E had paid in £900 there would an unaccounted  surplus  at the 
end of the day. And I wouldnt expect the IDM to balance  in that scenario.
I appreciate that Mr E says he deposited £900 into the IDM he tried to use. But, having taken 
into account all the information Ive already outlined theres insufficient evidence for me to 
reach this conclusion. Im sorry  to disappoint  Mr E, but think Halifax  did enough  to make sure 
there was no mistake with the amount of money being credited  to his account.  So, I cant  
fairly order it to pay him £500.
Ill turn to the second part of Mr Es complaint which  is about  Halifax not contacting  him as it 
said it would. Halifax says it tried to contact Mr E on 27 April 2018 but it couldnt reach him 
as he didnt answer the phone. Halifax has accepted that there was a delay in the branch 
contacting Mr Es to discuss  his concerns.  And it has acknowledged that Mr Es complaint 
wasnt logged as promptly as it shouldve been.
Halifax has offered £50 to compensate Mr E for this past of his complaint. Its clear he 
doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience  and experience.  But I think the 
Ref: DRN57971373overall compensation offered by Halifax in relation to this part of Mr Es complaint is fair in 
the circumstances. Its in line with awards  of compensation that our service would 
recommend in similar scenarios. So I wont be ordering it to pay any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5797137