K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Grattan Plc (trading as Witt International) declined her application  for a 
catalogue account. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 31 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt intend to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. I 
invited both parties to send me any additional comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  We havent received anything from either party.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has responded to my 
provisional decision and I have no new information  to consider, I see no reason to change  
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision dated 31 March 2020. I still dont think 
Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld,  for the same reasons. As a result,  Im not telling 
Witt International to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50480502Copy of Provisional Decision  dated  31 March 2020
Complaint
Mrs M complains that Grattan  Plc (trading  as Witt International) declined her application for a 
catalogue account. 
Background
Mrs M applied  for a catalogue shopping account with Witt International but her application was 
declined. Witt International says the application was declined after it completed a credit  search and 
wasnt able to verify Mrs Ms address.  
Mrs M asked our service  to look at her complaint  as she felt Witt Internationals decision was unfair. 
An adjudicator looked at Mrs Ms case and upheld it. He said Witt International had failed to properly 
explain why Mrs Ms application had been declined.  The adjudicator thought Witt International had 
made a mistake when it decided to decline Mrs Ms application and asked it to pay her £100. Witt 
International didnt agree  and asked  to appeal  so Mrs Ms complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As Ive said above, Ive reached  a different decision to the adjudicator. Im very sorry to disappoint 
Mrs M but I havent  been persuaded to uphold  her complaint. Im satisfied 
Witt International  acted  fairly when it declined  her application. 
Witt International  completed a credit search via a well known credit reference agency. The credit 
search information it obtained meant it wasnt possible to verify Mrs Ms address history,  in line with 
the information she gave  in her application. Witt International says it declines applications when  the 
address history provided in the application isnt verified. 
Lenders use information from applicants  credit files to check  how theyve  handled other borrowing. 
But they also verify details about identity and address using information  on a consumers  credit 
history. In this case,  the information Witt International found  meant it wasnt possible to verify Mrs Ms 
address history. 
I appreciate Mrs M may have recently moved home and that her application  was entirely genuine.  But 
as Witt International wasnt able to verify the address information Mrs M provided, it was entitled to 
take the decision to decline her application.  
Mrs M has told us she has good credit  and that shes been able to obtain borrowing  from other 
businesses. But each business is responsible for carrying out checks to ensure  its able to lend, in line 
with its own criteria. I cant say that Witt International has made  an error because  its declined an 
application when another business has agreed to proceed. 
Im satisfied Witt International  was able to rely on the credit  file information it obtained  when 
considering Mrs Ms application. And Im satisfied that Witt International  can make the commercial  
decision to decline an application when it cant verify the information provided, including  the address  
history. The information Ive seen shows that Witt International wasnt able to verify Mrs Ms address 
which is why the application  was declined. 
Whilst I understand my decision will seem  harsh to Mrs M, I havent seen anything to show Witt 
International made a mistake or treated her unfairly when  it declined the application. As a result, I 
dont intend to tell it to pay compensation or take any other  action. 
Ref: DRN50480503My provisional decision
Unless I receive something that changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mrs M and Witt International have until 1 May 2020   to send me any additional  information or 
comments they would like me to consider  before I make my final decision.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5048050