K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) mis-sold  her a mobile 
phone insurance  policy.
background
In March 2017 Miss L bought a phone and airtime contract in store  with a retailer . In 
March 2019 she upgraded her phone. Miss L noticed that the first bill following her upgrade 
was higher than expected, so called  her mobile  phone provider to query this. It explained 
she was paying  for mobile phone insurance  that covered damage and breakdown  and had 
been since March  2017. It agreed  to cancel the policy immediately and refund the premiums 
from the date of upgrade. 
Miss L wasnt  happy that only her premiums from the date of upgrade  were  refunded.  She 
says she never agreed to take the insurance and had existing cover through  her packaged  
bank account , that she paid a discounted  monthly fee for as a member of staff.  Miss L feels  
she should be refunded the premiums shes been paying since March 2017. 
Assurant disagrees the policy was mis-sold and so did not uphold  her complaint. Its been  
unable to provide  a copy of the contract  showing Miss L consented to the insurance. But, 
says evidence suggests Miss L knew  the insurance  policy was in place. It says it sent Miss L 
a text message  confirming the insurance  was active and sent the terms and conditions to her 
in the post. It also says her itemised online  bills showed a separate cost for the insurance.  
An investigator looked into things and felt that Miss Ls complaint should be upheld  and her 
premiums refunded back to the start of the policy. She said the policy was mis-sold because  
its most  likely Miss L would have refused to take a standalone insurance policy,  on the basis 
that she already  had existing cover. Assurant did not agree with our investigators findings. 
Because an agreement has not been reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive, as some  of it is here, I reach  my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that 
is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
Miss L says that she did not consent  to purchasing  this policy.  Neither party  has been able to 
provide a signed copy of the mobile phone contract. Therefore  Ive been unable  to confirm 
whether Miss L agreed to have insurance in place  for her new phone. In the absence of 
conclusive point of sale documentation, Ive considered what I think most likely happened  
based on the circumstances of this case. Having done so, I think Miss L probably didnt 
agree to the cover. Ill explain why.
Miss Ls monthly packaged  bank account fee was less than the cost of this insurance policy. 
Her packaged account came with mobile  phone insurance, as well as other banking and 
insurance benefits. And, her policy covered the loss of her handset as well as damage  and 
breakdown. So, I think it is unlikely Miss L would pay for a separate standalone policy that 
offered less comprehensive cover  even if there was a difference in the exclusions and 
excess amounts, as Assurant has suggested.
Ref: DRN57895282Assurant says there is enough  evidence to suggest Miss L should have been aware the 
insurance was in place. Miss L says she did not receive the text message confirming the 
insurance, because  she did not take her handset home straight away. She also said she did 
not read the terms  and conditions sent to her because she felt everything in relation to the 
mobile phone contract  had been discussed in store, and not subject to change. 
Miss L has provided her bank statements which show that the payment taken for the 
insurance was wrapped up in the payment for the airtime contract. So, its not clear from this 
that it included  a payment for insurance cover. I can see why this would not have alerted her 
to the fact she was also paying for an insurance policy.
Miss Ls monthly bills were clearer. They set out the phone charges and also the insurance 
charge as: Tier 1: Accidental Damage £7.00. Miss L said that she opted for online bills. 
But, because she had no reason to question  her direct debits, she did not log in to use her 
online account. Assurant  has been unable to confirm her online account  login history.
In summary,  Assurant cant show that Miss L opted  to have this insurance in place. And, I 
find her testimony and supporting information  persuasive in the circumstances. Her 
explanations for not receiving the text message or reading terms and conditions  are 
plausible and it was reasonable  for her not to realise she was being charged.  Following  her 
upgrade she did query  the higher direct debit charge.  And, when she was told about  the 
insurance, she questioned how long this had been active, immediately  cancelled  the 
insurance and raised a complaint about  a mis-sale. Miss Ls actions and testimony are 
consistent and so I am persuaded  by what she has said.
Based on everything  Ive seen, on balance, I agree this insurance  policy  was mis-sold and 
so uphold Miss Ls complaint. As I am of the opinion that she didnt agree to cover, 
premiums shouldnt have  been taken, so these be need to be refunded  plus an annual  rate 
of 8% simple interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  
Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
1.refund  all premiums;
2.add interest, at an annual rate of 8% simple, to the amount payable under (1) above 
 calculated from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
*HMRC requires  Assurant General Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. If 
Miss L asks for a certificate showing how much  tax has been taken off this should  be 
provided. 
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5789528