complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), 
policy. Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should  
accept responsibility  for the sale.  For simplicity Ive referred to FICL throughout my 
decision.
background
Mrs S took out a store credit account together with PPI in 2003. The purchase took place in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  As Mrs S disagreed 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs S case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
I think that Mrs S knew that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  her signed  store card application form. This has a section in it dealing  with 
PPI which  says only to sign the section if the applicant wants PPI. I can see that Mrs S has 
signed to request PPI. Because of the time that has passed I can understand why Mrs S no 
longer remembers this.
I cant be sure whether  FICL recommend Mrs S to take out the PPI or whether it left it up to 
her to make the decision. But, if it did make a recommendation,  FICL  had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs S. In any event, based on what  I know  
about Mrs S circumstances at the time and what I think  were  the likely  terms of the policy, I 
find that it was suitable because:
    Mrs S was eligible  for the PPI;
Mrs S wasnt affected by any of the policys  main  limitations  and restrictions  such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
K820x#14
Ref: DRN5405271K820x#14Mrs S says that she cant remember whether she was entitled to sick pay or a 
redundancy package from her employer. She has however told us that she had no other 
savings or insurance to help her meet her monthly store card repayments  had she not 
been working. But following a successful claim the PPI would have paid 15% of her 
store credit  account balance a month had she been unable to work because of accident 
or sickness or involuntary unemployment. These payments would have  been  in addition  
to anything she got from her employment.  So I think that the insurance could have been 
of use to Mrs S;
The premiums were  One Pound a month for each  £100 outstanding on her 
account and I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mrs S couldnt afford this. In 
any event, had she later felt that she no longer  wanted the PPI or that it was 
unaffordable for her, Mrs S could have  cancelled it at any time without further cost, 
as it was paid for monthly.
Its possible that FICL didnt tell Mrs S everything  she needed to know about  the PPI so that 
she could make an informed  decision  whether she wanted it or not. But from what  Ive 
concluded above I dont  think that Mrs S would have  made a different decision and decided  
not to take the PPI had she been given clearer information. So I find that she hasnt  lost out 
because of anything  that FICL may have done wrong during the sale.  Accordingly theres 
nothing that I require  FICL to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5405271