K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Unum Ltds decision to terminate his claim for benefit under his 
employers group income protection insurance  policy.
background
Mr S was employed by a particular company which Ill call Z and was a member of its 
group income protection insurance policy which was held with Unum.  The policy, after a 
waiting period of 26 weeks,  would pay a regular benefit if Mr S was unable  to perform  his 
occupation due to illness or injury.
In the summer  of 2017, Ms S suffered a flare-up  of his Crohns disease which  he had been 
diagnosed with many  years earlier. In September 2017, Mr Ss GP signed him off work 
because of this. His GP continued to certify him as unfit to work because  of Crohns disease 
and also, from December  2017, because of depression.
Z, on behalf  of Mr S, made a claim under the policy. In May 2018, Unum accepted the claim 
with effect from the end of the waiting  period  in March  2018. However, it considered  that 
Mr S was now capable of attempting a phased  return to work. It therefore said it would pay 
benefit up to 20 June 2018 by which time it expected Mr S would have returned to work and 
so the claim would be terminated at that point.  
Mr S didnt return to work and his GP continued to certify him as unfit to do so. Z asked 
Unum to review its decision.  In August 2018, having  obtained updated medical records and 
arranged for one of its in-house nurses to speak to Mr S, Unum  maintained  its decision to 
terminate the claim.
Mr S complained to Unum about  its decision.  It issued  its final response in November 2018. 
It said that by May 2018 he was displaying no symptoms of depression  and had been 
discharged by the mental health  team to be back under the care of his GP. It said that his 
GP had indicated in late April 2018 that Mr S should  shortly be ready to discuss  return to 
work arrangements with Z. It said Mr S had apparently been unwilling to enter into those 
discussions. It believed  that Mr Ss GP had continued to sign him off work  because Mr S had 
said that he feared he would  become  depressed if he had to go back to work but it said that 
this wasnt evidence of a current functional limitation.
Mr S was unhappy at Unums decision. He referred his complaint to us. He said that at the 
time the claim was terminated, he was still suffering from depression (albeit not as severe as 
before) and also from fatigue. He said these symptoms, along with ongoing symptoms 
related to his Crohns, had meant he hadnt been able to return  to the workplace since  then.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  it 
had been reasonable  for Unum to terminate the claim  when it did.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion. He provided further medical records and 
pointed out that his GP had signed  him as unfit to work in June 2018 because his condition 
had deteriorated.  He said in addition to depression  and anxiety, he was unable to work due 
to extreme fatigue,  pain from his Crohns (including  from his medication) and pain in his 
lower back. He said it was this combination  of factors which had prevented  him from 
returning to work in June 2018  and which  still prevented  him from working  now.
Ref: DRN55488922In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy will pay benefit if the insured person is unable to perform  the material  and 
substantial duties of his occupation. Mr S worked  from home and his role was essentially 
sedentary. The issue for me to determine  is whether it was reasonable for Unum to say that 
Mr S was no longer  medically prevented from performing that role at the time it terminated 
his benefit payments in June 2018.
The reasons  given on the GPs sickness certificate for Mr Ss absence  from work at the time 
Unum terminated the claim  were  depression  and Crohns. It is therefore these conditions 
which Ill concentrate  on in this decision.  
Shortly after becoming absent from work, Mr S began reporting symptoms  of tiredness and 
low mood.  In October 2017, his GP therefore referred him for counselling. An assessment by 
the counselling service in November 2017  found  he was displaying  symptoms of severe  
depression. It recommended he underwent  a course  of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
In February 2018,  Mr S reported  a worsening of his depression and suicidal ideation.  His GP 
referred him urgently to a psychiatrist.
In March 2018, Mr S stopped taking a particular drug for his Crohns because he felt this was 
affecting his moods  and making him feel suicidal.
In April 2018, Mr S had completed  his CBT course. The counselling service reported  that 
Mr S had improved and was now suffering from only mild symptoms of depression  and 
anxiety. It discharged him back into the care of his GP. His GP reported to Unum:  I would  
anticipate that a meeting could be arranged to consider a phased  return  to work in the near 
future.
In May 2018, Mr Ss psychiatrist  reported  that Mr S had improved, he had no symptoms of 
biological depression and his mood was euthymic. He also discharged Mr S back  into the 
care of his GP.
I recognise that Mr S was still on anti-depressant medication and that he intended to 
undergo further  counselling. However, the evidence doesnt suggest  that his depressive 
symptoms at this time were such that they necessarily prevented him from returning  to work.
With regard to his Crohns symptoms,  I can see that his consultant  reported  in January 2018 
that Mr S had had an excellent response  to his treatment regime. In March 2018, as noted 
above, Mr S stopped  taking a particular drug because of its side-effects. However, I cant 
see any evidence that his Crohns  symptoms  should have prevented  him from working.
Based on the above evidence, I think it was reasonable for Unum to say in May 2018 that 
Mr S should  have achieved a full return to work by 20 June 2018. 
Ref: DRN55488923Mr S didnt return to work and appealed  against Unums decision.  Unum therefore obtained 
updated medical information.
This showed that Mr S visited his GP in early June  2018 complaining of poor concentration, 
tiredness and feeling low. He also mentioned symptoms of tiredness and felling low at 
around the same time to other health professionals who were dealing  with his Crohns. His 
GP referred  him to a sleep clinic  for investigation into sleep apnoea and continued to certify 
him as unfit to work  because  of depression and Crohns.
Later in June 2018, Mr S had an appointment in the gastroenterology clinic where he 
reported that he had bowel movements  four times  a day and episodes of urgency.
In late July 2018, while still waiting to undergo the sleep  study,  Mr S again visited his GP. 
The GPs note says the following:
Has been trying to address  how he might  be if this is the best he ever gets. Is managing to 
do odd jobs but if physical jobs he can only manage about 3 hours  has not really  heard 
anything about  going back to work. Is a bit worried  financially if he has a failed return  to work  
otherwise he will lose all his rights to financial support. He will enquire  if he can go back  on 
an unpaid basis. He really  needs  to consider if he needs a career change.
Unum arranged for its in-house nurse  to speak to Mr S. He told her that he was suffering 
from fatigue though he also said he was able to walk the dog each day for about an hour,  do 
a little housework and perhaps visit his parents.
I understand that Mr S was later diagnosed  with sleep  apnoea  and has since undergone 
treatment for this.
I recognise that at the time Unum terminated the claim, Mr S was feeling low. However,  I 
dont find the evidence persuasive that he was suffering  from symptoms  of depression which  
were so disabling that they prevented him from performing  the material  and substantial 
duties of his sedentary role. Neither do I find there  is strong evidence to indicate  that he was 
prevented from working by his Crohns symptoms.  It seems that the chief reason Mr S didnt 
feel able to return to work  was because of tiredness (albeit that this may or may not have 
been related to his Crohns medication).
However, while Mr S was later diagnosed with sleep  apnoea, I dont find the evidence  
persuasive that his functional  limitation  due to tiredness and lethargy was such  that he 
couldnt attempt  a return to work, particularly bearing in mind the sedentary  nature of his job. 
The GP note in late July 2018 suggests  that Mr S could have attempted  a gradual  return  to 
work but was afraid to do so in case this should fail and he ended up with no entitlement  to 
benefit. But without  attempting a return to work, Mr S couldnt  know it would fail. And by not 
attempting this when  he seemed capable  of it, Mr S unfortunately undermined his case  
against Unum. 
Mr S has provided a great  deal of information relating to the investigations he has undergone 
since then, right up until October 2019.  However,  this is eighteen months  after Unum 
terminated his claim  and therefore I dont think these more recent medical reports  are 
necessarily useful in determining Mr Ss capability for work at the relevant time.
Overall, I consider it was reasonable for Unum to terminate  Mr Ss claim when it did.
Ref: DRN55488924my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5548892