K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that the car she acquired on a hire purchase  agreement financed by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. She wants  to reject the car.
background
Miss R took out a hire purchase agreement for a car in July 2017. She broke down several  
times between September 2017  and January  2018.  Each time it seems  it was down to the 
same issue   a problem with the fuel pump.
In mid-January 2018 the car was returned to the dealership. The dealership agreed to 
replace the fuel pump as a gesture of goodwill.  Once this was done, the dealership  returned  
the car to Miss R and she continued  to use it.
Around two months  later,  she broke down again.  She complained to Blue Motor. Blue Motor 
asked Miss R to get an independent report  which she did from a local garage. The report 
suggested that the car had an issue with the fuel pump caused by a faulty  component. 
Miss R provided this to Blue Motor and asked to reject the car.
Blue Motor  arranged for its own independent inspection to be carried out. This report  initially 
concluded that it was likely there  was a pre-existing issue with the fuel pump  at the point of 
sale  but the inspector asked for additional  information such as the breakdown reports. 
Once this was provided the inspector concluded  that the fault wasnt pre-existing but that it 
was likely to be the result of a faulty component used during  the repair carried out in 
January 2018.  It said the car should be returned to the garage that replaced the fuel pump 
for further  examination.
Blue Motor  then issued  its final response  letter which said it wasnt  liable for the repair  
because it was down  to lack of maintenance.  It said that the car was being  run on low fuel 
and thats what  was causing the fuel pump to seize up. It said that the dealership arranged 
for the repair as a gesture  of goodwill. Because of this it didnt accept Miss Rs request  to 
reject the car. It suggested that Miss R contact the garage that completed the repair and ask 
it to rectify the issue. 
Miss R remained  unhappy  and brought her complaint  to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. In summary,  he thought Blue Motor  should allow Miss R 
to reject the car. This was because he thought the fault was either  present at the point of 
sale or had been  caused  by repairs completed by the garage  appointed by the dealership  
(and requested by Blue Motor).
Miss R accepted this. Blue Motor didnt. It said that the repairs  had been completed  as a 
gesture of goodwill  not because it accepted there  was a fault. It thought  it should  be given 
the chance to put right the repairs.
Blue Motor  has since agreed  to cover the cost of repairing the car again,  on the basis  of a 
faulty component,  because it says this is outside  the control of it and Miss R.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.I  issued a 
provisional decision saying that I didnt think Blue Motor needed to do anything more.  My 
provisional decision said:
Ref: DRN53128752Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  implies a term into the hire purchase 
agreement that the car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier  and finance  
provider, Blue Motor is responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the 
agreement.
Theres no dispute that there was a fault with the car, but the issue  is whether  it was 
present at the time of sale, and whether that fault makes the car of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the 
relevant circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. The car was 
about seven years old when it was supplied  to Miss R in July 2017, and had travelled 
a little over 70,000 miles. The price was just over £3,000.
Miss R had driven the car around 500 miles when it broke down the first time in 
September 2017. She then had some further problems with it in the following weeks. 
The recovery service and the dealership were unable to find faults initially, but it was 
later established  by the recovery service that there was a problem with the fuel 
pump, so it undertook  a temporary  fix. It said in its report to Miss R to Please ensure 
symptoms/suggested faults are confirmed by your chosen repairer before any 
suggested work is started.  It doesnt appear any permanent repairs were organised 
by Miss R.
Miss R used the car for another  two months  covering  around  1,300 miles before the 
car broke down again in December 2017.  The car was returned to the dealership 
which put fuel in the car  and the car started. But around a month later the car broke 
down again. It was at this point that the dealership agreed to replace the fuel pump  
which was hopefully going to resolve  the issue. 
Miss R broke down again in April. She complained  to Blue Motor. As part of this, two 
independent reports  were undertaken. One arranged  by Miss R, and one by Blue 
Motor.
Both inspections suggested that a faulty  component  was used during the repairs  
completed by the dealership. They also commented  on the fuel pump relay housing 
and the fuse board being damaged. But what I need  to decide is if the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Not after the repairs  completed by the 
dealership.
The dealership has commented on what it established through the breakdowns and 
the repair. Its said the fuel pump mostly  sits in the fuel tank,  so its lubricated by the 
fuel in the tank.  When someone runs on a mostly empty tank this causes the pump  to 
burn out. The dealership says whenever it saw the car the tank was always almost 
empty. It thinks Miss Rs habit  of driving this way is what caused the problems. Miss 
R says this isnt the case  and that it was only once that the dealership saw the car 
with an empty tank.
On balance, I think its most likely that Miss Rs driving habits are what  caused the 
problems with the fuel pump. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN53128753Ive looked into the fuel pump/fuel tank matter, and it appears to be accepted on the 
whole that having a mostly empty tank can cause  the sorts of problems Miss R has 
experienced with the car. This could also explain why the problem was intermittent  
such as when Miss R covered roughly  1,300 miles without incident. When  the tank 
was reasonably full the fuel pump  was fine, but when it was almost  empty  there were 
problems. If the fuel pump was overheating this could also explain why both 
independent engineers found the fuel pump relay housing and the fuse board to have 
been damaged  by heat.
Taking this into account I think  its most likely the car (and the fuel pump)  was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale, and the initial problems with the fuel pump 
were as a result of Miss Rs driving  habits.  For this reason I dont think Blue Motor 
Finance is required  to do anything further, such as accept the rejection of the car. 
I appreciate Miss R has experienced further  problems  after the dealership  repaired 
the car. And both inspectors suggested  this was because  a faulty component  was 
used. But the repair was completed  as a good  will gesture arranged  by the 
dealership and so Blue Motor isnt responsible for this. But Blue Motor has offered to 
arrange another repair at no cost to Miss R.
my provisional decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint. 
the responses to my provisional  decision
Miss R didnt accept my provisional  decision. In summary  she said that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and this is proven by the amount of times  she broken 
down. She said that she always made sure there was petrol in the car and that if there  hadnt  
been the breakdown service wouldnt have helped her. She provided further copies  of the 
breakdown reports.
Blue Motor  Finance didnt respond  to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is inconclusive, as some  of it is here, I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to be the case in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Miss R said she always  had petrol in the car so she doesnt think  her driving style 
contributed to the fault. And she says the breakdown service  wouldnt have helped her if she 
didnt have petrol. I accept she had some fuel in the car when she experienced problems. 
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  I think its most likely she drove  the car with an 
almost empty tank of fuel, which caused  the fuel pump  to stop working.    
Miss R has provided copies of the breakdown reports from the breakdown service. Most  of 
these were provided before. Id already considered them when reaching my provisional 
decision, so these havent changed  my mind.
Ref: DRN53128754Overall, I still think its most likely that Miss Rs driving habits are what caused the problems 
with the fuel pump meaning I think its most likely  the car (and the fuel pump) was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Blue Motor  has agreed to repair  the car at no cost to Miss R. Miss R should contact Blue 
Motor directly if she wishes  to accept this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Rachel Killian
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5312875