K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  him a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (MPPI)  
policy.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage in 2006  and also took out an MPPI policy that covered him against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment. He arranged the mortgage and insurance in a 
meeting.
Mr S believes Lloyds  mis-sold the policy. He says he was told to sign several documents at 
the time of sale and nothing was explained  to him about MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr S doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint for the following reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mr S was given a choice to have the policy.  I have done  
this by considering both parties  recollections  and any documentation provided from the 
sale. 
Mr Ss recollections about  the meeting in 2006 are not detailed.  This is understandable 
due to the many years  that have passed since the date of sale. So I have needed to 
look at the sales  documentation provided from that time to obtain an understanding as 
to what more  likely happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mr S was advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect His mortgage  repayments,  and he took it on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when the separate application  
form was being  completed and signed  by Mr S, that the MPPI policy  was presented  on 
this form as an optional  requirement.  On balance, when considering  the information in 
front of me, I am persuaded  Mr S was given a choice to have the MPPI policy.
Ref: DRN51672892Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr S, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  He says he 
wouldnt have  had any sick pay at the time of sale but had an insurance policy. I agree 
with our adjudicator that the insurance  policy held by Mr S wouldnt have covered the 
same things  as the MPPI policy so I dont think it would have made  a difference in how 
suitable the policy was for him. I also think the benefits  provided  by the policy  would have 
been of use to Mr S in a time of need  for the things it did cover. Having the policy in place 
would mean Mr S could  use any provisions  He had to cover other expenses.  I think, on 
balance, Mr S would  have found the cover the policy provided useful for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness. I can also see no other reasons such as a significant 
or restrictive term that would make the policy  unsuitable either.
I cannot be sure if Mr S would  have received the costs of the policy clearly in the 
meeting but even  if he had received all the information  on this, I dont think  it would have 
changed his mind to have the cover for the reasons that I have  already given. The MPPI 
policy was reasonably priced  compared to similar  policies available at the time and to 
the monthly repayment. And Mr S could have cancelled  the MPPI if it did become 
unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr S wouldve  been  affected by any of these based on what I have already concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but on balance,  I do not uphold his 
complaint for the reasons that I have  given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5167289