K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs L have complained about  Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limiteds  (LV) 
handling of their car breakdown insurance  policy.
Reference to LV includes their agents.
background
Mr S and Mrs L had car breakdown cover  through their bank account.  The policy was 
underwritten by LV.
In April 2018, Mrs L drove her car and parked. She said when she turned the engine  off it 
made a funny noise.  As the car wouldnt start she called  LV for assistance  and they sent a 
recovery agent to her. The agent  said there was a problem with the battery. He jump started 
it and advised  Mrs L to run the engine for around  half an hour so that the battery would 
charge itself. Mr S and Mrs L said the car broke  down a further  three times in the following 
15 to 20 minutes. With the assistance of family members jump starting the car, they 
managed to take it to a local garage.
The local garage  told Mr S and Mrs L that the cars alternator was the cause  of the problem.  
Mr S and Mrs L had a new alternator  fitted.  Mr S and Mrs L were not happy with the service 
they received  from LVs recovery  agent. They said he was negligent as he failed  to correctly 
identify the alternator as the problem. They also said that by telling  Mrs L she could continue 
driving, which she did, the agent  put her in danger as when the car cut out the power 
steering stopped functioning. They complained.
LV said their recovery agent hadnt  done  anything wrong. They  explained the agent acted 
appropriately within the limits of the policy and made a diagnosis  based on the limited  
information available to him at the roadside.  LV also said any diagnosis an agent does at the 
roadside is preliminary and repairs are only temporary. They  said had Mrs L called them  
again when she subsequently broke down they would have attended and recovered her to a 
garage.
As Mr S and Mrs L werent happy with LVs response, they brought their complaint  to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt that LVs agents actions were 
reasonable and in line with the policy. As Mr S and Mrs L didnt agree with our adjudicator, 
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 30 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why. I must decide  if LV have dealt with Mr S and Mrs L in 
a fair and reasonable way.
Mr S and Mrs L have said that they feel the recovery agent  was negligent and not LV. 
I should say that as the policy was underwritten by LV and the recovery  agent was 
acting on their behalf, LV are ultimately  responsible for their agents actions. So, the 
correct respondent  to the complaint is LV.
Ref: DRN55187042Mr S said that when the car wouldnt start and Mrs L explained to him over the phone  
what the problem  was, it was clear  to him the problem was the alternator. Mr S said 
that he has since discussed the matter  with a number of mechanics, a car electrician 
and breakdown technicians all of whom agreed with him that it should  have  been  
obvious to LVs agent that the cause of the problem was the alternator and not the 
battery. And that the agent  should  have checked the alternator.  Mr S and Mrs Ls 
garage replaced the alternator soon after which I think shows  that was the cause of 
the problem Mrs L experienced.
From the information provided by Mr S and Mrs L, and from information widely 
available, I understand that a common reason for cars behaving in the way Mr S and 
Mrs Ls did is a faulty alternator. And I also understand that once a car with a faulty 
alternator is jumped  started,  as LVs agent did, some basic checks can be carried out 
to establish the problem.  But LV have accepted  that their agent only carried  out a 
visual inspection.
LV told us: as a problem with the alternator  was found later,  but wasn't evident and 
couldn't have  been present at roadside,  this would indicate an intermittent problem. A 
roadside technician  can only diagnose  from the problems which are presenting 
themselves when he attends.  There was no fault found with the alternator  at the 
time But Mrs L explained  both on the phone when reporting the incident and to the 
agent at the roadside what had happened  to her car. She said she had completed a 
journey; that the engine management lights  came  on; the engine made a strange 
noise when she turned  it off; and it wouldnt start after that. Given  a common reason  
for a car not starting in those circumstances may be as a result of a faulty alternator, I 
would have expected LVs agent to have considered that and to have carried  out 
some tests that would  have been  possible.  But he didnt.
I understand that the conditions for a roadside  breakdown agent are different to that 
of a mechanic  in a garage. At the roadside there  will be restrictions, such as limited 
tools and access to certain parts of a car. But I would still expect reasonable level of 
skill and care to be demonstrated by a professional. And I would expect a certain 
level of caution  from an agent especially as the scope of what they may be able to do 
is limited. What I mean by that is I would have expected the agent to tell Mrs L to 
have her car assessed by her own garage soon, as there may be other  problems that 
he wasnt able to check. But it seems the agent only thought the problem was with 
the battery  and felt it would resolve  itself by being  charged.
LV said that under  the policy any diagnosis by their breakdown  agents  is provisional 
and that the customer  may have to get their own follow  up diagnosis by their own 
mechanic. LV also highlighted a condition in the policy that said:  It is your 
responsibility to make  sure-that-any temporary repair-that-our-breakdown 
professionals carry out IS followed immediately by any necessary permanent  
repair But on the roadside report (also  known as a job sheet) the agent completed 
and got Mrs L to sign there were a number of options the agent could have selected. 
One of those said Temporary Repair  I am aware  that only a temporary repair  has 
been earned out and is only for the continuation of the current journey, after which  a 
full repair  must be effected. But the agent didnt select  that option.  I think  that was 
because he didnt consider the alternator may have been the cause of the problem. 
And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think he should have advised  Mrs L that 
was a possibility.  So, I dont think hes actions were reasonable.
Ref: DRN55187043LV told our service: Our agent made a provisional  diagnosis to the best of his 
abilities at roadside. A totally flat battery can't be tested  thoroughly  so an informed 
diagnosis, taking in to account  all the events leading up to the breakdown, has to be 
made. I think LVs acceptance that the battery  couldnt properly  be tested suggests 
the agent couldnt have  known with certainty the only problem was the flat battery. 
That reinforces my view that the agent should  have erred on the side of caution and 
he should have  warned  Mrs L that there might be problems other than the battery, 
such as the alternator. And that she should have her own garage check  the car soon. 
Had he given consideration to the possibility that the alternator  was faulty, I would 
have expected him to be aware  that driving the car in that state could be dangerous 
as the car could  lose power and cut out at any moment. And had the agent  
considered the alternator was the problem, he could have, as suggested by Mr S and 
Mrs L, observed Mrs L drive by following her for a period of time to see if the car 
would cut out. But he didnt do that either.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think LV acted reasonably  as the service  
provided to Mr S and Mrs L wasnt reasonable. I therefore intend to uphold this 
complaint. Mr S and Mrs L were  both upset because Mrs L was led to believe she 
could safely continue driving her car without being alerted to any possible dangers. 
Given this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience to them, I intend 
to require LV to pay Mr S and Mrs L £150  compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Neither Mr S and Mrs L nor 
LV provided any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr S and Mrs L £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced. This should  be paid within  28 days  of us telling them that 
Mr S and Mrs L have accepted my final decision. If LV pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on that amount from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 
8% a year simple.1
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If LV consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr S and Mrs L how much  they have taken  off. They  should  also give them  a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5518704