K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs T says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ts says she doesnt remember the sale of the PPI but shes  said she thinks it took 
place in a meeting. Capital One says the PPI was sold when Mrs T applied for her credit 
card online and then completed and signed  a credit  agreement  which  followed in the post. 
Capital One says there was no interaction between  it and Mrs T during the sale. Its provided 
evidence of the internet applications  record and the credit agreement.  This has been printed  
with Mrs Ts full name and address at the top and is signed by Mrs T the day before it was 
signed by Capital One, which suggests that both parties were  not present  on the same day. 
So I think its likely this document was posted  to her and then sent back to Capital One.  So 
Ive also considered this sale to have been conducted via internet and post. 
 
I think Capital One made  it clear  that Mrs T didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand if she cant remember this now.  I say this because  on 
the internet applications record I can see that the PPI required record  entry  is followed by a 
Y. I think this is likely to indicate a yes answer  to PPI during the online application. Ive also 
looked at the credit  agreement which included a section for PPI where Mrs T ticked the box 
and signed to confirm her decision  to take out the policy. This signature is separate and 
additional to her signature to agree to the credit  so I think  this reflected what  she wanted  at 
the time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs T got the information she needed to decide  if the policy 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
Mrs T says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and couldve relied on her 
husband to support her if she was suddenly unable to work. But while I appreciate  her 
husband wouldve  wanted to support her, help from others cant always  be guaranteed  as 
their circumstances can also change. And while she had some sick pay entitlement, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to this, covering  10% of her outstanding monthly balance for up 
to 12 months upon a successful claim.  This wouldve allowed her to use her sick pay for 
other expenses had she been unable  to work. And so I still think the policy couldve been 
Ref: DRN58765032useful for her and I dont  think  better  information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already sent out 
a cheque for this amount. If Mrs T needs the cheque  re-issued she should contact Capital 
One directly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5876503