K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says she was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) with a store  card. She 
says she has no recollection of ever agreeing to PPI.
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mrs A disagreed  and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint.
Id like to say that I certainly  dont doubt that Mrs As recollections  of being mis-sold the PPI 
are honest  and genuine. However, these events  are from quite a few years ago and because 
this is the case,  weve  got very little to refer to in the way of documentation. 
Nevertheless, weve seen  a number of very similar  sales  to this one and weve spoken at 
length to the company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were 
generally used.  
FICL computerised  records show Mrs A took out the store  card in 1992 but she didnt get 
PPI until 1996.  Mrs A disputes this because she doesnt understand why she would 
suddenly decide  to buy cover like this after 4 years.
But the FICL description of how this sale took place is in accordance with my understanding  
of how many consumers bought this type of PPI with store  cards  at around that time. 
Consumers were periodically called up about their accounts and told about PPI and the 
records tend to show this is what happened  here.
Theres no recording of the call and FICL  doesnt  have  any notes from it. But I dont think  
thats surprising  or unreasonable  given  that this all took place well over 20 years ago and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. 
I sympathise and understand that Mrs A feels strongly now about being  sold this PPI cover, 
but given what  FICLs  records show  and my own experience of similar sales - I think  its 
likely a telephone  call did take place, which Mrs A no longer remembers.  
I also note that the amount of PPI she was subsequently charged for does indicate to me 
that she used  the card quite a bit in the late 90s. And I think  the PPI would have started 
showing up on her monthly statements.
Ref: DRN50815992These things, taken together, make  me think its more likely Mrs A agreed to add the PPI 
policy to her store card, back in 1996.
My experience is that FICL provided  a non-advised  sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear  information for Mrs A to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I simply cant say whether this was done  because theres nothing to refer to. But I 
think its just as likely that important information  was given   as it wasnt.  And I think  its fair 
for me to assume Mrs A would have at least been sent something by the third party  insurer 
explaining the cover  and what  it did.
Mrs A told us she had some sickness protection already  with her job, implying  she didnt 
need any PPI. I fully understand why shes told us this and Ive thought  very carefully  about  
the benefits Mrs A says she enjoyed. But Im afraid these dont necessarily mean  the PPI 
wasnt of use. 
This is because Ive checked that Mrs A was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major  exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered 
was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave  more  protection  than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work  or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been  in addition to any 
other means  Mrs A had in place at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use in her situation. I think 
this could explain why she probably  chose to agree  to it during the call.
For me to uphold Mrs As complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I just dont have 
that evidence.  So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy  was mis-sold.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs A.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5081599