K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  
which they say was mis-sold by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA Insurance)  in 
2001 in connection with a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B complained to this Service, They said they were told by a person Ill call G 
from a company Ill call Company W that they would stand a better  chance  of getting the 
mortgage if they applied for a PPI policy. They were  not told it was optional  and it was taken 
out in Mr Bs name as he was the main wage earner; so they bought  the PPI. Mr and Mrs B 
complained to Company W; they discovered  that, at the time of the sale, Company W was 
owned by Company S which was owned by RSA Insurance.  So Mr and Mrs B conclude  RSA 
Insurance was responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale by Company W through  its 
ownership of Company  S. Mr and Mrs B also said the PPI was sold in 1989 although the 
policy schedule only dates back to 2001.
RSA Insurance  said it only has records of a PPI policy  going  live for Mr B in 2001.  It said it 
was not responsible for the sale in 2001; it said Company  W was part of Company S, but 
that Company  S was an independent  legal entity at the time of the sale in 2001.  It also said 
Company W was not RSA Insurances  authorised representative which  would have allowed 
Company W to sell PPI on RSA Insurances  behalf. So RSA Insurance concludes  it is not 
responsible for the sale either  through  Company  Ws actions or through  its ownership  of 
Company S.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be rejected because  the evidence  we had 
seen suggested  Company  W acted as an independent intermediary at the time of the sale in 
2001 and was not acting  on behalf of RSA Insurance. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I did not think RSA 
Insurance was responsible for this PPI sale and so I was not going to uphold the PPI mis-
sale complaint against  it. I sent a copy of my provisional decision to all parties and invited 
them to comment further. I did not receive any new evidence  from Mr and Mrs B or from 
RSA Insurance.  In those circumstances, I see no reason to change  the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether RSA Insurance is responsible for the sale of the 
PPI policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether  the sale happened as it shouldve done. 
If I dont think  RSA Insurance was responsible for the sale to Mr and Mrs B, then Im not able 
to consider a PPI mis-sale  complaint against  it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that RSA Insurance  sold the PPI policy  to 
Mr and Mrs B. So it follows  that if RSA Insurance did nothing  wrong during the PPI sale,  I will 
Ref: DRN50678992not uphold this mis-sale  complaint against RSA Insurance. I know this will disappoint  
Mr and Mrs B, so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs B about the PPI sale. They recall a 
person Ill call G from Company W told them during a meeting they would have a better 
chance of getting the mortgage if they bought PPI. As they had had some  trouble in securing 
a mortgage, they took the advice and bought  a PPI policy to cover Mr B only as he was the 
main wage earner.  Mr and Mrs B said this happened  in 1989 but the only evidence  RSA 
Insurance produced to show a policy in Mr Bs name confirmed a PPI policy started in 2001 
 so in the absence of evidence of an earlier policy, I will be assuming the sale was in 2001.
So it does seem clear that G from Company W made representations to Mr and Mrs B about 
the PPI policy  which  led them  to buy it. I then looked to see if RSA Insurance  could be 
responsible for the PPI sale either through its ownership of Company S or through Company 
Ws actions. However, RSA Insurances internal screenshots confirm  the policy was sold by 
G and that commission  was paid to Company S. So it looks like Company S was a separate  
legal entity as RSA Insurance had confirmed. In addition, I have not seen any evidence  to 
show Company W was acting as RSA Insurances  authorised representative  which would 
have allowed Company W to sell PPI on RSA Insurances behalf.
Taking all the available evidence into account, I do not think RSA Insurance  is responsible  
for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint. It follows that it also was not responsible for 
carrying out the PPI sale properly.  So I am not going  to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint 
against RSA Insurance  because I dont think it did anything wrong. 
I can see our adjudicator did a very thorough investigation and reported  on all possible 
avenues of complaint  against other  companies to Mr and Mrs B but  and I am sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs B - this will be as far as this Service  can take this complaint against 
RSA Insurance.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that the Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc is not responsible for this sale and I do not intend to uphold  the PPI mis-sale complaint 
against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5067899