K821x#15complaint
Ms M is unhappy with her home  insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because it declined a claim 
she made to it following  the collapse of a retaining  wall at her home.
background
Ms M owns  a property  situated on the riverfront. The boundary  of her land is halfway across 
the river. The dry-land on which Ms Ms property  sits is edged on the riverside  by a retaining  
wall.
On 1 October 2017 Ms M received a flood  warning call from the environment  agency.
Ms Ms property didnt flood on this occasion.  But during the night of 2 October and early 
morning of 3 October  the retaining  wall collapsed. On the evening of 3 October Ms M had a 
surveyor assess the situation. He reported  that the turbulent waters of 1 October  had caused 
a new channel to be cut in the riverbed allowing water to get behind the wall and under its 
footings, which had then been washed away causing the stone  in the upper courses  of the 
wall to collapse. In summary that the mode  of failure was that the wall had lost support at its 
base.
Ageas considered these findings. But also took account of the fact that Ms M admitted to not 
having carried out any maintenance to the base of the wall. Ms M showed that the wall had 
been maintained,  with a low water  level being taken advantage of on occasion to do work as 
far down  the wall as possible. But as the river would  have to be diverted for work on the 
base of the wall to be carried out, this hadnt been done.
Ageas wrote  to Ms M and declined her claim. It noted the mode of damage detailed  by the 
surveyor and stated  that the policy  holds  a general exclusion for anything which occurs 
gradually. It also noted that the base of the wall hadnt been maintained, which  it felt it 
should have been.
Ms M was dissatisfied. She didnt think it was reasonable  to expect her to maintain the wall 
below water level because that would require  diverting the river. Ms M believed  this had 
happened as a result  of flooding  happening as it did at a time when a flood warning had 
been issued  and that Ageas  should  reasonably cover it under  the policy. When it wouldnt 
change its mind Ms M complained to this service.
Our investigator felt there had most likely been a flood and that Ageas should, therefore, 
reasonably cover the claim. Ageas was unhappy. It didnt think this met with our approach  to 
flood claims or that what the investigator had said was in line with previous decisions issued 
by us. It asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
Ms M told us, in January 2019, that work to reinstate the wall had neared  completion. She 
said shed paid the invoices and sent us copies of most of them  (but not for her civil 
engineer) which we forwarded to Ageas. The total costs at that point, according to Ms Ms 
figures, came to £31,790.05. Ms M said this sum didnt reflect some finishing work  that was 
necessary such as facing  the wall and reinstating the walkway  above it.
The complaint was passed  to me and whilst  I felt Ageas should  have  accepted the claim, my 
reasoning for that was different to that set out by our investigator. I issued a provisional 
decision to which the parties responded. My provisional findings,  the parties responses and 
my replies are all set out below as part of the findings of this my final decision.
Ref: DRN50528432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I explained provisionally:
insured event
Insurance policies  dont  offer cover  in the instance  of any damage  occurring.  Even those 
which cover  all-risks come with exclusions  that limit the breadth  of cover. Ms Ms policy  is 
based on damage being caused by certain  events. She has additional  cover  against 
accidental damage  occurring. Only if something covered by the policy occurred to cause the 
damage suffered  to the wall will Ageas be liable for it. That is unless  it can show that a 
relevant exclusion  to the cover exists that limits or removes its liability.
storm and flood
Damage caused  by these two events is covered by the policy.  But there was no storm in the 
area of Ms Ms property at the time of the walls collapse. I understand there was exceptional 
rainfall upstream of Ms Ms location but the rainfall didnt cause the damage in question  here
 not according  to the surveyors report.
The surveyor does refer to flood waters.  And I know there has been a lot of focus  
previously about  whether  the river did or may have  breached its banks and that there was a 
flood warning issued.  But a risk or potential for flood isnt the same as a flood actually 
occurring. And common parlance  of a river being  in flood,  doesnt necessarily mean  that a 
flood in insurance  terms has occurred.
This service commonly views flood as being  a build-up of water  somewhere it shouldnt be. 
That build-up may have  been sudden or gradual and it may have come from a natural 
source, such as a river overflowing or from a pipe bursting. Essentially though  the insurer 
offers cover for flood because those waters  cause damage because  they are somewhere 
they shouldnt  or wouldnt  usually be. And that fits with the nature of insurance  to offer 
cover in the event  of something unexpected happening. So whilst I understand why Ms M 
feels strongly that this damage has been  caused  by a flood, which her policy offers  her cover  
for, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably view it as such.
accidental damage
Ms Ms policy includes cover for this. The policy defines such  damage as: unexpected  and 
unintended damage caused by sudden and external means.  There is no dispute that the 
damage was unexpected  and unintended.
Ive seen no signs that the wall was showing any signs  of collapse prior to the date it fell. 
And the surveyors account of what most  likely happened suggests it was quick. The base 
moved and the blockwork above  fell. And we know the river was high, and therefore at risk 
of flooding within around 24 hours  of the collapse occurring (because Ms M received an 
emergency floodline  call to warn her of the risk). So I think its fair to say that the 
damage/collapse was a sudden event.
Ref: DRN50528433I think its clear, from the surveyors report, that external forces  acted on/against the wall.
So Im satisfied that the damage suffered at Ms Ms home can fairly be considered under the 
accidental damage  cover offered by the policy.
Ageas complaint handler provided  a photo  of the remaining  part of the wall and said that the 
level and flow of the river in October 2017 was no different to any other winter, so the forces 
bearing upon the wall wouldnt have been  any different either. Ageas handler felt erosion 
in general terms is a gradual process and that the erosion  which occurred here hadnt  been 
sudden, although the effect of it  the wall falling  had been. 
I havent seen  any data or expert  opinion about the level and flow of the river in 2017 
compared to other  years.  I accept that the term erosion is often used to connote a gradual 
process of wearing away. But the expert  opinion available  says that, in this case, there was 
an event of sudden  erosion caused  by the particular river conditions in force in 
October 2017. The photo provided doesnt  detract from this opinion.  So I remain  satisfied 
that the incident does  fall for cover under the accidental damage section of the policy.
My provisional findings continued:
 
exclusions
There are exclusions attached specifically to the accidental damage section and also 
general exclusions that apply to the whole policy.
The only possibly relevant exclusion specific to the accidental damage cover, is the one that 
brings into play any exclusions  listed under the other  causes of damage listed in the policy. 
Having considered all of the exclusions the only one potentially relevant is one that excludes 
damage caused by riverbank erosion. My comment in this respect  is that there is no sign of 
the riverbank having eroded and this having  caused damage. The erosion referred to by the 
surveyor is located in the riverbed. Had Ageas intended this exclusion to have wider 
coverage  such as to include any river erosion as some policies do  it should have chosen 
different wording.
Ageas, in its final response, relied on the general  policy exclusion for gradually  operating  
causes. In referring to that exclusion it also mentioned that Ms M hadnt maintained  the base 
of the wall. Id note here that the exclusion for gradual causes, whilst listing various  things, 
doesnt seek to include lack of maintenance as a type of gradual cause. In any event, Ageas 
hasnt presented any evidence, even so much as an expert opinion, that suggests the cause 
of the wall failing was that the base hadnt been  maintained. Rather it seems to have found  
that the base failed  and assumed  that was due to the lack of maintenance. One might mean 
the other is most likely  but I cant reasonably accept that is the case when no expert has 
said that and the only expert view on the cause of the damage  said this happened because 
of turbulent water  acting during this one occasion.
Taking a more generalised view of the exclusion Ageas has sought  to rely on, my answer  is 
very similar. The surveyor says this occurred suddenly. It wasnt  the case that over time a 
channel had worn  a way to the rear of the wall, gradually washing away the support for the 
wall until it couldnt withstand the natural pressures anymore and sagged downwards or 
collapsed. It was a sudden event, not gradual.
Ageas accepted there was no exclusion regarding riverbed erosion , but felt discussion  of 
Ref: DRN50528434this was a moot point, because erosion, it said, is a gradual process. Therefore, in Ageas 
view, the claim fails under the exclusion for gradual  causes.
Ive answered the point  on the term erosion  being  indicative  of a gradual, not sudden, 
event above. Im not going to repeat my comments here. Suffice to say I dont think Ageas 
has shown that the damage is fairly  and reasonably  excluded by virtue of the gradually 
operating cause exclusion.
My provisional findings continued:
previous decision
In its submissions to us Ageas referred  to a decision issued by my fellow  ombudsman  in a 
different case which had some similar  circumstances. My colleague didnt uphold that 
complaint and Ageas felt we should take the same approach  here.
Each case is considered  on its own merits. And I know Ageas is aware of that. But more  
than that there are some distinct differences on the case  my colleague considered. One 
being that the wall in that case slumped, it didnt collapse. And the consensus  was the 
damage in that case had occurred gradually, due to what  Ill call a man-made abnormality 
in the riverbed which had affected  how the river flowed (meaning the water acted against the 
wall). Theres no evidence of anything  similar here.
Ageas said that, in both cases,  the walls had shown signs  of losing support at their base.  
Therefore, it felt, they were similar.
I accept there may have  been some  similarities  between the two cases. But Im still satisfied 
that, as explained provisionally, there  were  also some key differences.  Differences which  
mean the findings about the two cases can reasonably be different. 
My provisional findings continued:
remedy
This wasnt the sort of work that could wait whilst  Ms Ms complaint was considered. It was 
reasonable, and necessary, for her to get this work done. Ageas could have done it had it 
been prepared  to accept the claim but it chose  to decline  it instead. As the work has been 
done the costs  are known  although  there  may be some that Ms M hasnt shared with us 
yet, such as the facing  work mentioned above. And whilst Ms M did tell us about the cost of 
her civil engineer she didnt provide a copy of that invoice. If she can provide that now, along 
with any others she wants Ageas to make settlement  for, well share  them with it. Then, if I 
remain of the view that Ageas should settle  this claim, Ill likely make  a final decision 
requiring it to reimburse Ms Ms outlay,  by paying  a specific amount, as shown  by the 
invoices. Ill also likely  require Ageas to pay interest* on the invoice  amounts  from the date 
Ms M paid them until settlement is made.
Ms M reviewed her invoices and sent us copies of everything, including  the civil engineer  
invoice shed referred to before but not provided.  These totaled  £32,975.05.  A difference of 
£1,185 from the figure Ms M gave us earlier in the complaint. That is the total of two 
invoices. One at a price  of £474.  This was a survey cost incurred in summer 2018,  along 
with other  invoices of a similar type. It seems it was missed when Ms M sent us other 
invoices before. The second invoice  totaled £711 and was for paving work completed in 
Ref: DRN50528435January 2019,  after the initial invoices were provided.
The invoices were  shared with Ageas.  Our investigator also pointed  out that the costs so far 
didnt include the price for reinstating  railings and facing the wall; this work was yet to be 
done. Ageas  didnt  make any objection or comment regarding  the invoices provided. But it 
did say that for the railing and facing work it would only be liable for like-for-like  
reinstatement.
Ive reviewed the invoices and noted that Ageas  hasnt raised  any objection to any of them.  
Im satisfied they all seem  in line with the necessary work and investigations that would likely 
have been needed given  the structural and environmental significance of the wall. Im going  
to require Ageas to pay the total of these invoices  £32,975.05   plus interest*  on each 
individual sum that makes  up this total from the date each was incurred until settlement is 
made. Ageas and Ms M should talk about the remaining work and decide how this is to be 
settled. It seems it isnt something that reasonably has to be done  by contractors previously 
involved. If Ageas is happy to complete that work then I see no reason not to let it do so. If 
Ms M wants her own contractors to do this then Ageas might agree to that but it would only 
have to settle based on its cost to do that work.  If Ageas isnt prepared  to complete the work 
then it will have to settle based on Ms M s reasonable cost for completing it. 
My provisional findings concluded:
distress and inconvenience
Ageas has accepted there were some delays but I do acknowledge that this was a complex  
issue. It has offered £250 compensation and were  I just considering upset caused by delays 
I might  be minded to say that was sufficient.
However here, in my view, Ageas got the claim decision  wrong  and that resulted in Ms M 
having to have work carried out herself.  That was costly work and I dont doubt that funding it 
caused Ms M some stress. I think Ageas should pay a further £250 compensation.
Ms M said she hadnt cashed the cheque for £250 and sent a copy to show  she still had it. It 
is dated May 2018 so is now more than six months  old and so out of date. Im, therefore, 
going to require Ageas to pay a total of £500 compensation. 
overall
I remain satisfied that Ageas  acted unfairly and unreasonably when declining this claim. To 
put matters right I think it must settle Ms Ms costs incurred for carrying  out investigations 
and repairs, complete or pay for the outstanding  work to be carried  out and pay Ms M £500 
compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to reimburse Ms M for the work 
she carried out to reinstate  her property, plus interest* from the date she paid each invoice 
until settlement is made. I also require  it to complete, or pay Ms Ms reasonable costs  to 
complete, the outstanding work.
I also require Ageas Insurance Limited  to pay Ms M a total of £500 compensation.
Ref: DRN50528436Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Ms M, it should 
tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5052843