K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about 6 loans Myjar provided to Mr T between December 2016 and 
November 2017.  
Mr T took out loans  that were due to be paid by way of 3, 6 or 12 monthly instalments. 
Except for loan 6, he repaid  the loans early   but he hasnt yet repaid the last loan he took 
out. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 08/12/2016 06/02/2017 6 £425.00 £123.33
2 08/02/2017 28/02/2017 3 £150.00 £75.59
3 28/02/2017 12/07/2017 12 £1,025.00 £155.48
4 20/09/2017 23/09/2017 3 £200.00 £106.96
5 28/09/2017 23/11/2017 12 £675.00 £102.80
6 26/11/2017 Outstanding 12 £600.00 £91.85
Mr T said that he was in a spiral of debt as a result of gambling  and having  to take out new 
loans to repay existing  debt with other lenders.  He says that if Myjar had asked to see his 
bank statements then it wouldve seen the problems he was having  and not given him loans 
that made his financial circumstances worse.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Myjar shouldnt  have 
approved loan 5 or loan 6 and he recommended  steps that Myjar should take to put things 
right for Mr T. 
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said it wasnt certain that our adjudicator  had 
looked at everything  before coming  to his view. Mainly Myjar said its checks  were 
proportionate and the adjudicator hadnt  explained  how hed come to his view.
Mr T responded to the view saying that although he repaid loans early it was only because 
he was borrowing from other lenders to do this and he was always  short of money.
This complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN58937632Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the  relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
I dont think Myjar was wrong to give the first two loans to Mr T. Looking at the amounts  Mr T 
needed to repay, what was apparent  about  his circumstances at the time, and his history  
with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to ask Mr T for the 
amount of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable. And 
I havent seen  anything in the information it seems that Mr T provided  or the information 
Myjar shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.   
When he applied for loan 3, I think Myjar could have  done more  or gone further in its 
affordability assessment  before agreeing this loan.  I think  it would have been proportionate 
for Myjar to have asked  Mr T for more information  about why he needed such a large loan 
and taken steps to independently check the true state of his finances, given that he was 
planning to pay this by way of 12 monthly  repayments.
Ref: DRN58937633But based  on the information  thats available to me, I cant fairly say that further checks  
wouldve shown up anything that ought reasonably to have led Myjar to decline Mr Ts 
application for loan 3. 
Mr T repaid loan 3 early and there was then a short gap of just over two months or so before  
he applied  to Myjar to borrow again.  This time he asked for a relatively  small loan  and he 
planned to repay loan 4 in three instalments.  I think  Myjar was reasonably entitled to rely on 
the information Mr T provided  to be able to make  an informed  lending decision. There wasnt  
anything apparent about his circumstances at the time that makes me think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Myjar to probe more  deeply  into his financial circumstances before 
agreeing this loan  and its lending decision on loan 4 wasnt  unfair. 
But I think that by loan 5, its reasonable to say that Myjar should have realised that Mr T 
wasnt managing  to repay his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because  Myjar could 
see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were clear indications  that Mr T had 
struggled to repay some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 within a couple of 
days of repaying loan 1, and it looks  like he took out loan 3 the same day he repaid 
loan 2. Although  he repaid loan 2 early, loan 3 was the biggest  loan by far that Mr T 
had asked for 
loan 5 started less than a week after hed paid loan 4 - and loan 5 was for more  than 
three times the amount  hed borrowed when he took out loan 4, suggesting that 
Mr Ts financial circumstances werent getting  any better overall  despite  the fact that 
by then hed been  borrowing from Myjar for over nine months
it was likely Mr T had to borrow again each time because he was facing money 
problems after repaying the previous loan.  
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk Mr T wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for loan 5  and any subsequent loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
6. My reasons for saying  this are that:
Mr T had already taken out six loans over eleven  months   without  any significant 
breaks in lending 
whilst  the loan amounts had gone up and down, by loan 6 it was evident  that Mr T 
wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed. His first loan had been  for 
around a third less than he was now asking to borrow   and loan 5 had been for 
more than half as much again  as loan 1. So a pattern  of dependency was apparent in 
respect of his borrowing
Ref: DRN58937634at this point, Myjar ought to have known that Mr T was not likely borrowing  to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in income but to meet an ongoing need
and that Mr Ts indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably
this is borne out by the fact that Mr T has a balance outstanding  on loan 6.
I think that Mr T lost out when Myjar provided loan 6 because  this loan had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive  credit over an 
extended period  of time. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and Myjar should put things right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 5
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 6 and treat any payments 
Mr T made  towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ts loan 6 account as Ive directed results in Mr T effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Myjar should refund this 
surplus amount  with 8% simple interest  calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement 
if reworking Mr Ts loan 6 account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
Myjar can use the total refund for loan 6 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Myjar that it should take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Ts credit file
the number  of loans taken by loan 6 means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 6 should  be removed from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN58937635my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint about loans 5 and 6. MYJAR Limited 
(Myjar) should pay Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5893763