K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc rejected her claim for 
compensation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect  of legal services 
which were not provided to her daughter.
background
In 2015 Mrs H paid a barrister £480 for a consultation about  two cases  her own and her 
daughters. This was £240 for each case. She made the payment with an M&S credit  card.  
She subsequently  paid another £3,000  by BACs transfers; again  this was for both cases. 
She later raised a claim with M&S under section 75 in respect of the barristers  services in 
both cases. M&S did not uphold her claim, so Mrs H brought this complaint to our Service.  
This decision only concerns her daughters  case;  Mrs Hs own case  is being dealt with 
separately as another complaint.
M&S said that as Mrs Hs daughter was not its customer, it had no obligations to her under 
section 75. And as Mrs H was not the barristers customer in relation to her daughters case, 
she was not a party to the contract  which the barrister had allegedly breached, so section 75 
did not apply to her either. Our investigator agreed with this analysis.
Mrs H did not accept  that decision, and so this complaint  has been passed  to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer the same right to bring a claim 
against the provider of credit (in this case M&S) as she would  have against  the supplier of 
services if there has been a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation  by the supplier  (the 
barrister). But for section 75 to apply, the person who entered the contract with the supplier 
has to be the same  person who was provided  with credit. That isnt the case here.
Its clear from the evidence that the party to the case in which the barrister was instructed  
was Mrs Hs daughter. She was the defendant in an action for debt, which means that she, 
and not her mother, was the barristers  client. So only the daughter had a contract with the 
barrister, and the right to bring a claim against him for a breach of contract or for 
misrepresentation. The fact that her mother paid the barristers fees doesnt make  Mrs H a 
party to the contract  too. And section  75 doesnt  give Mrs H a right to bring  a claim against 
M&S if she doesnt have  a claim against  the barrister  in respect of her daughters contract. 
The fact that Mrs H also had her own contract with the barrister  in respect of her own case is 
irrelevant to her daughters claim.
Mrs Hs daughter does have the right to bring a claim against  the barrister.  But M&S  didnt  
provide her with credit, as the payment was made with her mothers  credit card, not her own. 
So section 75 does  not make M&S liable to her for what  the barrister did (or didnt do).
She might also be able to bring a complaint against the barrister  to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Any award made by the ombudsman will be enforceable in court under section 141 of the 
Legal Services Act 2007.
Ref: DRN53203572However, I cannot say that M&S was wrong  to reject Mrs Hs claim under section 75. Section 
75 didnt apply. Nor do I think it would be fair to order M&S to pay compensation for 
something a third party did in circumstances where the section didnt apply.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5320357