K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 1999. The policy  gave Mr M 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It was taken out at the same time as Mr M 
applied for an Egg credit  card.  The Egg credit card was run by a different bank at the time, 
but Barclays later took it over. It has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why. 
When Mr M applied for the Egg credit card online he ticked a box on the screen 
indicating he wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the statement that by ticking the 
box he was confirming  hed read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the PPI. 
Mr M feels the screen had a default to the Yes option so there wasnt  really  a 
choice. I disagree. The options to select or decline PPI were  set out with equal 
prominence on the screen. And there  was no wording  to suggest the PPI was 
mandatory. Overall, I think Barclays made  it clear  to Mr M the PPI was optional and 
he agreed to take it out.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr M to decide whether the policy  was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit  card repayments if he was sick or lost 
his job. 
Its possible Barclays didnt give Mr M all the information about the PPI that he 
needed before he made his decision.  But Mr M chose  to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr M wouldve made  a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN54371222Barclays has explained to Mr M that it deducted the premiums already refunded in 2008  from 
the figure it was using  for total premiums paid, when it calculated the amount of the 
commission and profit share to refund. This is in line with what  we would expect, and I think  
it is fair.
The 2008  refund was for premiums Mr M paid between  April 2006 and April 2008. It was 
made as the bank  then running the Egg credit card failed to cancel his policy as he 
requested. The refund was applied to Mr Ms outstanding balance in September 2008. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437122