K821x#15complaint
Mr S is a sole trader, running  a small business,  and he owns  two vans.  Hes unhappy that 
Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  added an additional driver  to the wrong  policy.
background
Mr S has two vans  Van 1 and Van 2. Admiral insure Van 2 and used  to insure Van 1. In 
May 2018 Mr S phoned Admiral to add his employee (Mr E) to the policy  for Van 1. But, 
instead of telling Mr S they didnt insure  Van 1, Admiral added Mr E to the policy for Van 2.
A few weeks  later Mr E had an accident while driving Van 1, causing damage  to both Van 1 
and another car. The insurers for Van 1 turned down the subsequent claim for this accident 
because Mr E wasnt an insured driver.  Admiral accepted theyd made  a mistake and paid 
Mr S £650  compensation  the cost of repairing Van 1. They also gave Mr S a pro-rata 
refund of the premium hed paid. But this left Mr S being chased by solicitors  for £5,647.48 - 
the cost of the repairs to the other car.
In summary  I said that, although Mr S had a responsibility to check the documents  Admiral 
sent him; Admiral accepted the risk of Mr E being an insured driver  on Van 1, and took a 
premium to cover this risk, even though they didnt have Van 1 on cover.  So I thought it was 
fair they covered the costs of the repairs to the other car. But I also thought  Admiral  were 
entitled to keep the full premium for the risk they took on.
My provisional decision was that Admiral should pay Mr S £5,004.53  the £5,647.48  costs 
hes liable for less the £643.25 pro-rata premium refund hed received.
Both Mr S and Admiral  have been given the opportunity to comment  on my provisional  
decision. Mr S accepted  my decision but said that the liability  issue had affected his 
insurance premiums.
Admiral said theyve liaised with the insurers of Van 1, whove confirmed theyre  dealing  with 
the accident. Admiral  said theyll be settling the cost of the claim with the insurers  of Van 1. 
Theyve also said the usual procedure when  a customer  receives  paperwork from a solicitor 
about a claim is that it should be referred to the insurers to deal with.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive responded to the points raised by 
Mr S below.
Based on the comments Ive received,  both Mr S and Admiral have accepted my provisional 
view, but my recommended remedy needs  to be dealt with in a slightly different way. Ive 
now seen written confirmation from the insurers  of Van 1 that theyre dealing  with the 
settlement of the claim,  and that theyll be recovering £5191.80 costs  from Admiral.
So, while my provisional decision still stands  Admiral should pay the costs  of the claim - 
they no longer  need to pay this to Mr S directly. Admiral will pay this to the insurers  of Van 1. 
And Mr S should pass any paperwork hes had from the other partys solicitors to the 
insurers of Van 1 to deal with. 
Ref: DRN53537582I initially recommended  Admiral deduct  the £643.25  the pro-rata refund from the cost of 
settling the claim. Mr S is being chased by the solicitors for £5,647.48 and Admiral will be 
settling the claim for £5,191.80  a difference of £455.68. So I think  its reasonable that 
Admiral settle the claim as is, and Mr S remain liable for this difference.
In respect of Mr Ss current  insurance premiums, he insured a vehicle in which  Mr E had an 
accident. When looking at how much to charge, insurance companies take into consideration 
a number of factors,  including  previous accidents and claims. Mr S says his insurance 
premiums have been affected  by the accident Mr E had and, while  I havent seen any 
evidence of this, a premium increase following an accident is not unusual.
But I cant hold Admiral  responsible for how other  insurance companies rate their policies. 
So I wont  be asking them to refund any premium increases  to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Admiral  Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.  But, because Admiral  have now agreed to cover the costs  of the claim 
directly with the other insurer,  I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53537583copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S is a sole trader, running a small business, and he owns  two vans. Hes unhappy that Admiral 
Insurance Company  Limited added an additional driver to the wrong policy.
background
Mr S has two vans  Van 1 and Van 2. Van 1 was insured with Admiral, but is now with a different 
insurance company. Van 2 is insured with Admiral. On 2 May 2018 Mr S phoned Admiral  to add his 
employee (Mr E) to the insurance policy for Van 1. But, because Van 1 was no longer insured with 
them, Admiral added Mr E to the insurance policy  for Van 2, by mistake,  instead.
On 19 May Mr E had an accident while  driving Van 1 where damage was caused to both Van 1 and 
another vehicle. Mr Ss insurance claim  was turned down as Mr E wasnt an insured driver for Van 1. 
When Mr S contacted Admiral about the issue, they removed Mr E from the insurance  policy for Van 
2.
Mr S has complained that Admiral added Mr E to the wrong insurance policy, and didnt tell him that 
they didnt insure Van 1 when he called them  to add him. Admiral have accepted they made an error, 
and have paid Mr S £650  compensation  the costs of repairing Van 1. They  also issued him a pro-
rata refund on the premium  hed paid them to insure Mr E. Mr S didnt  agree with this outcome and 
has brought his complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator agreed that Admiral had made an error. But, because Mr S had called the wrong 
company and because he hadnt checked the documentation  Admiral sent him in the post (which 
confirmed that Mr E had been added to the policy  for Van 2), the adjudicator didnt think  that Admiral 
could be held fully liable. The adjudicator thought Admirals offer to pay Mr S the costs of repairing 
Van 1 was reasonable  in the circumstances, and he didnt think they should  do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree  with the adjudicator. Hes provided  a letter from the other drivers  solicitors,  dated  
22 March  2019, which shows hes liable  for £5,647.48   the cost of the damage done  to the other car 
in the accident. He feels that Admiral should cover some  or all of these  costs as well.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral have admitted they added Mr E to the wrong policy, and that this was done in error.  And in 
making that error, and collecting a premium from Mr S, Admiral took on the insurance risk when they 
shouldnt have. But Admiral  say Mr S should take some responsibility, because  he did not check  his 
documents showing  the amendment on the incorrect vehicle.
Admiral sent Mr S policy amendment  documentation in the post, which showed  Mr E had been added  
to the insurance  for Van 2. If Mr S had checked the documents thoroughly as soon as hed received 
them he wouldve noticed the error. 
But the covering letter just says the policy  has been  changed, and what  Mr S is being charged for this. 
Its reasonable  for Mr S to think  that Admiral wouldve  made the changes  they discussed  on the 
phone, and he wouldnt  have expected them to have added Mr E to the wrong policy.
Ref: DRN53537584The details about the van were in an attached document, so the van Mr E had been insured on wasnt 
immediately obvious.  And, because  the documents were  sent in the post and the accident  happened 
less than three weeks after Mr E was added, its not unreasonable for Mr S not to have got round  to 
properly checking  the documents  and therefore  noticed the error.
While Mr S did have a responsibility  to check the documents, this doesnt change the fact that Admiral 
made a mistake. So I dont think that Mr S should be held liable for Admirals error, and have to bear 
the responsibility for the costs of the repairs to the other vehicle. 
Admiral accepted  the risk of Mr E being an insured driver, albeit in error, and theyve paid Mr S for the 
costs of the repairs to his van. So I think  its fair they should also pay for the costs of the repair to the 
other vehicle.  If they hadnt added Mr E to the wrong policy, he wouldve  been added to the correct  
van and been insured  for the accident that took place. So Mr S wouldnt  now have to pay for the 
repairs to the other car himself.
But Admiral are entitled  to keep the premium they accepted  for taking this risk, so any payment made  
should be reduced by £643.25 - the pro-rata value  of the premium refunded to Mr S in May 2018.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr S £5,004.53  the £5,647.48 costs hes liable for less the £643.25  
premium Admiral have refunded him. Admiral should also update the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange to reflect the accident and the amount theyve paid out.
Ref: DRN5353758