K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Black  Horse Limited didnt  remove a second charge which  was 
registered on her property when it was repaid. Mrs E would like more  compensation than 
Black Horse  offered.
background
Mrs E had a loan with Black Horse which was secured on her property. Mrs E repaid  the 
loan in full in 2016. But by December 2018  it hadnt  been removed, Black Horse said that in 
April 2016 it sent a form to the Land Registry  to remove the charge but for some reason the 
charge remained.  
Black Horse  has now removed the charge and paid £100 to Mrs E for her distress. Our 
adjudicator thought that the level of compensation offered by Black Horse  was fair. Mrs E 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E paid off her secured loan to Black Horse in 2016 and expected the charge secured on 
her property to be removed. Through some administrative  error Black Horse failed to do so 
and the charge lay on her property until Black  Horse was reminded of it and then arranged 
its removal.
I can understand that Mrs E, after paying off the loan, feels  let down by the fact it wasnt  
removed. Ive no doubt this was annoying  and for that reason Black  Horse offered £100. But 
it doesnt appear to have  affected Mrs E financially. Mrs E refers to only being allowed £500 
credit limit by a bank.  There  are many reasons that banks  decide on credit  limits and Ive no 
evidence that the existence of a legal charge played a part in that. 
In any case a legal charge  is only an indication  that a lender is taking security  for a loan and 
isnt by itself any indication of a bad credit history which would affect  a banks lending 
decisions. 
So, whilst I do understand Mrs Es annoyance I feel that when Black  Horse was alerted to 
the problem it was dealt with promptly and I dont believe  that it would have affected Mrs E 
financially. I believe that the payment of £100 fairly  compensates Mrs E for her distress. So 
for those  reasons  I cant  fairly uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5576948