K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that the mortgage they were sold by an appointed  representative  of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G) was unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs S are represented in bringing this complaint by a claims management company 
(the CMC).
background
Mr and Mrs S were  advised by a mortgage broker from the firm Carrington Carr (which was 
an appointed representative of L&G)  when remortgaging  in 2006. Within  the remortgage,  
they raised funds  for home improvements  and consolidated an existing car loan.
In February 2018,  the CMC complained to L&G on behalf of Mr and Mrs S. It said that the 
brokers recommendation to consolidate  the car loan was unsuitable, given the double  
detriment of the increased long-term costs and that the car was a depreciating asset. It said 
that wasnt justified,  as Mr and Mrs S couldve afforded  to maintain the car loan alongside  
their new mortgage.
L&G said that the broker had recommended the debt consolidation to offset the increase in 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage payments (a result  of the additional borrowing). Without this, it 
didnt think the arrangement wouldve  been affordable for them.  As Mr and Mrs S didnt 
accept that, the CMC  referred the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  Mr and Mrs S couldve 
afforded the loan payments on top of the new mortgage payments. So he didnt think  it had 
been good advice to consolidate the car loan  when it would incur interest over a 
significantly longer  term, and meaning it increased  the amount of debt secured against Mr 
and Mrs Ss property. So he thought  L&G needed  to rework things to put Mr and Mrs S in the 
position theyd  be in if theyd not consolidated  the car loan.
L&G didnt accept  our adjudicators view.  It maintained that affordability concerns justified 
the consolidation, especially as Mr and Mrs S were taking on a sizeable building  project  
the kind of which were notorious  for going over budget. It also said that the effects  of 
consolidation had been discussed  with Mr and Mrs S, whod signed to confirm they were 
happy to proceed. So L&G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, and it was 
passed to me.
Ref: DRN50836452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consolidating debts  within a mortgage  including car loans, as at issue  here  isnt 
inherently unsuitable in and of itself. There are pros and cons, and whether its suitable for a 
particular borrower  will depend on their individual circumstances.  Looking  at Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it was suitable advice that they consolidate  their car 
loan within  their new mortgage. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S were  paying £146 a month  to their car loan. If theyd not consolidated it within  
the mortgage, their monthly mortgage  payment wouldve  been  around £687. So in total, 
theyd have needed to pay around  £833 to service  their borrowing each month. Thats  £110 
more than what they ended up paying,  which  relative to their circumstances  isnt 
significantly more. 
From the income and expenditure assessment completed by the broker at the time, I think  
that wouldve  been affordable for them. It still left them with a comfortable level of disposable 
income. So while the brokers notes indicate that consolidation was recommended to 
achieve one manageable payment, I cant see that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been able 
to manage their outgoings if theyd kept the car loan alongside the new mortgage. 
L&G says it was important  to keep costs down  given that Mr and Mrs S were undertaking 
building work  which  is known to go over budget.  If it was a particular  concern  of Mr and 
Mrs Ss, I might be inclined to agree. But I cant see that there was any discussion or 
consideration of that at the time.  So I dont think thats sufficient to suggest  that Mr and 
Mrs S had a need to keep their monthly  outgoings  down, and to justify the consolidation. 
Mr and Mrs Ss car loan only had 33 months left to run. So theyd have paid it off completely 
within three years  and would then have the £146  back in their budget.  That wouldve 
meant their payments towards debts  would then have been  even lower than they were  under 
the remortgage. Instead, Mr and Mrs S swapped the 33-month term of the car loan for the 
16-year mortgage  term. So while their payments went down initially, they will have paid more 
(or at least be at risk of paying more)  in interest  over the substantially longer term. 
L&G says that the implications of consolidation were discussed with Mr and Mrs S and that 
they were happy  to proceed. But I dont think thats sufficient to make up for the 
shortcomings in the advice. It was for the broker to ensure its recommendation was suitable 
 and in particular, whether it was appropriate for Mr and Mrs S to consolidate  an unsecured 
debt within  their mortgage. 
Had the broker recommended  that Mr and Mrs S keep the car loan running alongside their 
mortgage, I think they wouldve followed its advice. So theyve lost out as a result of what  
went wrong.
Ref: DRN50836453my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to make redress  for the consolidated debt by:
Calculating the amount  Mr and Mrs S have paid to date in capital and interest  
payments for the consolidated loan;
Calculating how much remains on the mortgage  balance for the consolidated loan;
Calculating how much Mr and Mrs S wouldve paid to clear the loan if it hadnt been 
consolidated; and then
Adding together the first and second  figures, taking away the third, and paying this 
amount as a lump  sum to Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083645