K822xcomplaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Barclays Bank PLC prevented  access to her funds and closed her 
four bank accounts. Shed like compensation to recognise  the impact  their actions. 
background 
Mrs E had four bank  accounts with Barclays. On the 5 September 2018 Barclays  restricted  
Mrs Es access to her accounts  following notification  from another bank, Ill call N, that Mrs E 
received fraudulent funds of £1,100.
On the 11 October  2018 Barclays wrote to Mrs E to inform her that theyd be closing her 
bank accounts  with immediate notice. Barclays continued to withhold the release of Mrs E 
funds totalling  almost £120,000 and also loaded a fraud prevention  marker to the Credit  
Industry Fraud Advisory Service (CIFAS).
Mrs E wasnt  happy so complained to Barclays. Barclays said theyd acted in line with the 
terms of conditions of her account  when closing it and wouldnt release  her funds until 
satisfactory Proof of entitlement was provided. 
As Mrs E didnt agree  with Barclays response she complained to our service. 
On looking at Mrs Es complaint our investigator thought that Barclays needed to do more. 
She thought  Barclays  didnt have sufficient evidence to justify  the withholding of Mrs Es 
funds or the loading  of the CIFAS marker  and should return  the funds plus 8% interest from 
the date of the account restriction to the date of repayment. Initially she thought that 
Barclays should pay Mrs E £800  but following further evidence from Mrs E our investigator  
concluded that £1,000  was fairer compensation to recognise the impact  of Barclays actions. 
Barclays agreed to our investigators  recommendations  and on the 26 April 2019  they 
confirmed that all of Mrs Es accounts were reopened.  Barclays returned Mrs E funds minus 
the fraudulent  funds  which  were sent back to the victim of the scam.   
Mrs E accepted the majority of our investigators view but felt that the level of compensation 
offered, £1,000,  wasnt sufficient.  Mrs E felt that the impact on her  causing  significant  
difficulties at work, paying her rent and missing a holiday - led to a high level of distress and 
anxiety.
As Mrs E didnt agree  its been passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
Both Barclays and Mrs E have agreed on the complaint  points regarding  the fairness of 
Mrs Es account closures, the releasing of her funds and the loading of the CIFAS  marker. 
So I wont  address  these areas. Instead Ill be looking at the level of compensation  I think  is 
appropriate in this case. 
Ref: DRN50467342In doing so Ive considered the impact of Barclays actions on Mrs E. And Im in no doubt this 
has been substantial. Ive seen evidence that Mrs E was signed off sick for an extensive  
period of time  which Im satisfied was directly related to Barclays  actions  and had 
difficulties in maintaining her rent and payments for her disabled  sons  care. I dont think  its 
unreasonable to conclude  that Mrs E suffered significant distress from the lack of access  to 
her funds. And was likely embarrassed  by the situation it led to her at her work. I appreciate 
that Mrs Es thinks the level of compensation she should be awarded is higher. But having 
considered the overall impact of Barclays actions  Im satisfied that the amount 
recommended by our investigator, £1,000, is fair recognition of this. 
In conclusion I think Barclays should pay Mrs E £1,000 compensation. 
my final decision
My Final  Decision is I direct Barclays Bank PLC to:
-Pay Mrs E £1,000 in compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5046734