K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 1996 with Universal Building Society and they say they 
were mis-sold a payment protection policy (PPI) with it. 
Hewcastle Building  Society is now responsible for these sales  so Ill refer mainly  to NBS in 
this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs D its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D say they dont remember ever agreeing to PPI. Whilst I dont doubt thats an 
honest recollection now, the sale was some 23 years ago. Perhaps not surprisingly, we no 
longer have the original application  form but NBS sent me an example of what  such  a form 
would have looked like. I can see it would have  been  fairly  obvious what it was about 
because it was headed up as a Mortgage Care Application Form.
The policy in question  was free of charge for the first year and Mr and Mrs D were  sent a 
letter dated  1 July 1996 which said I can now confirm that free Mortgage  Care was put in to 
force at completion.  So I think theyd have been  aware at the time that such  a policy  had 
been set up for them and in my view this provides good evidence that PPI was discussed at 
the time.  
I also think the third party  PPI insurance company would have communicated  with Mr and 
Mrs D about the policy  they had agreed to buy. Theres no disagreement that such a policy  
was taken out, so I see no reason why they wouldnt have  been  sent a policy  schedule  or 
something similar.
Overall I think  all this shows Mr and Mrs D probably agreed to have the PPI cover.
However in addition to this NBS has said the policy was cancelled  in 1997 anyway. And 
whilst I cant be sure of the precise  date,  it does seem quite likely that Mr and Mrs D 
cancelled the PPI after the free 12 month period. I think its therefore possible they didnt 
ever pay any premiums.
The PPI was only set up to cover Mr D. I think that might  reflect  that this was obviously an 
incentive which was designed to offer free cover for them  so they would  perhaps  consider 
renewing or extending  it after the offer ended. Mr D appears to have been eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes  see in these policies. 
Ref: DRN54068122The price, after the offer period, seems  to me to be comparable with similar policies from 
around that time and Ive seen nothing  that suggests  it wasnt affordable for him. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have necessarily  been advised  during  the PPI sale, given 
the free nature of it. And as Ive said, they seem  not to have ever paid any premiums.
 
Its possible that Mr and Mrs D werent  told everything they should have been.  But it looks  
to me that they havent lost any money and I think the letter Ive described above would 
have told them the policy was in place and who was covered for the initial  free time period. I 
think they had enough information on which to make an informed decision.
I dont therefore  think any better, or more information, actually would have changed  
anything that happened. I dont think Mr and Mrs D lost out and I dont think the PPI was 
mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. And I dont direct Newcastle Building  Society  to do 
anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5406812