K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained about Santander  UK Plc. They said that when they took out a new 
product on their Santander  mortgage in 2014:
-the adviser was pushy  and sold them a product which wasnt  competitive; and
-the booking  fee of £999 was excessive.
Mr and Mrs F want a refund of the booking fee.
background
Mr and Mrs F had an existing Santander mortgage.  It was due to come to the end of its 
current product on 3 December 2014.
In August  2014,  Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs F. The letter  said that they didnt have to 
wait to the end of their current deal to transfer  to a new product. If they chose  to apply for a 
new deal, Santander  would waive the early  repayment charge theyd otherwise have to pay 
by paying off an existing deal early.
Mr F rang Santander on 8 September  about  the letter and spoke to Santander about options. 
The bank produced a mortgage  offer the next day. This was for a five year fixed rate at 
3.19% which  was the same rate as their current deal. There was a booking fee of £999.  Mr 
and Mrs F accepted the offer and chose to have the fee added to their mortgage balance. 
There was a clause  in the mortgage  offer which said:
Cooling off period. During the next 14 days, please ensure that everyone named on the 
mortgage reads the conditions carefully to ensure  they understand them...If, within  this time, 
you or any other party to the mortgage decide that you no longer wish to proceed  with the 
conversion, or if you have  any questions, please give us a call on the number shown.
Mr and Mrs F went ahead  with the mortgage deal which started  on 22 September 2014.
In July 2018, they complained to Santander.  They said the bank had pressurised them into 
the deal, and the rate wasnt  competitive. They said the £999 booking  fee was excessive.
Santander didnt  uphold their complaint. It pointed out that the terms and conditions had 
been sent to Mr and Mrs F on 9 September 2014, and these had confirmed  the rate and the 
booking fee, as well as the 14 day cooling off period.  The bank had no record of Mr and Mrs 
F getting  in touch to cancel within this time. 
Santander explained that the bank was charged  a fee to secure a fixed rate on the financial 
markets, and although it tried to limit how much of this fee it passed on, some had to be paid 
by the customer as a booking  fee. This also covered  the costs of preparing new terms and 
conditions and putting the mortgage  onto the new rate. Santander said it would  only have 
recommended a rate with a booking  fee if this had been better for the customer  than a deal 
without a booking  fee. Mr and Mrs F asked  to hear the call from 2014, but this was no longer  
available. 
Mr and Mrs F complained to this service,  saying that:
Ref: DRN52146902-Santander didnt  have a call recording from September  2014. Mr F said the bank  had 
tried to contact him several times and had left voicemail messages. Hed rung back 
because hed assumed it was important;
-they hadnt been looking  to end their mortgage product early,  but were  planning  to 
review nearer the end date. And by December  2014 the 3.19% rate was no longer 
competitive;
-Mr F had been busy at work in September 2014,  which  was why they hadnt got back 
to Santander within the cooling off period;
-they felt a £999 fee was excessive  because the rate and terms and conditions  had 
stayed the same;
-Santander hadnt given any other product options, and had only mentioned  the £999 
fee at the end of the call.
Mr and Mrs F want the £999 booking fee refunded on the grounds  that they believed  it was 
excessive. They said this was especially  so given the pushy way the bank had got 
agreement, and the uncompetitive rate.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. He replied in detail to each of Mr 
and Mrs Fs points, and in summary  said that Mr and Mrs F could have used the 14 day 
cooling off period if theyd felt unhappy  with the product or that theyd been  pressurised to 
make a decision.
Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied. They said that although Mr F had returned  one of 
Santanders calls,  it had been  the bank which had been chasing them.  They also said they 
felt theyd been pushed into making a decision about a rate when rates  had been going  
down. They said this was why Santander had been keen to speak to them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Fs points in the 
headings they set out.
Santander not having any phone  recordings, including when the bank tried to contact  Mr and 
Mrs F.
There is no set length of time for how long banks  have  to keep phone recordings, and this 
service doesnt tell banks  how long they have to keep them. Its up to the individual  bank. 
Here, Santander doesnt  have  a record of outgoing  calls it made to Mr and Mrs F, and it no 
longer has the call recording when Mr F rang the bank on 8 September 2014. I dont 
consider thats  unreasonable,  especially as it was nearly four years  before Mr and Mrs F first 
raised a complaint about this with Santander.
Mr and Mrs F not looking to change their product until nearer the 3 December end date
I recognise that Mr and Mrs F now say they didnt want to decide  until nearer their product 
expiry date. But the fact remains  that they did choose to go ahead. They didnt have  to 
accept Santanders  offer when it offered them an early  renewal  in the letter  of August  2014. 
They could indeed  have  waited, though  theres never any certainty about whats  going to 
happen to rates in future. 
Ref: DRN52146903Mr and Mrs F have  said that by December 2014,  it was clear that the 3.19% rate wasnt 
competitive. As it turned out, Santanders rates did indeed fall by December 2014. But the 
fact that this did happen doesnt mean their complaint will be upheld,  because no-one could 
have known in advance.  Nor could anyone have  known what  would  happen over the five 
year fixed  term theyd  chosen. Interest rates can go up or down during the period of a fixed  
rate. By choosing  a fixed rate, borrowers  gain or lose depending which way rates move.  
And if Mr and Mrs F had indeed waited until their product expired at the start of December, 
they would  have gone onto the higher standard variable rate until theyd sorted  out a new 
product. If theyd then chosen a product with a different  lender, it would have taken some 
time to set up the mortgage application, valuation, and legal  work.  As a rough guide, it takes 
around eight weeks  to process  an application to remortgage  and it can be more. And that 
doesnt count  the time a customer may spend  researching options before choosing  their 
deal. 
So if Mr and Mrs F had waited  until the 3 December end date before starting  to think about a 
new product, and had then looked  around, its likely theyd have been on the higher  standard 
variable rate for quite a while, which would have  been expensive. But the key factor is that 
they didnt have to accept  Santanders offer in September 2014 when they did.
Mr F being too busy at work to contact  Santander  within the 14 day cooling off period
Mr F has told us he was too busy at work to get in touch with the bank during the 14 day 
cooling off period. But Mrs F was a joint mortgagor,  and they havent  said why she couldnt 
have got in touch with the bank if Mr and Mrs F felt theyd been unduly  pressurised into 
accepting a deal.  Instead, they waited some four years before complaining.  I find its 
surprising that they waited  so long before complaining, if they believed that theyd been 
pressurised into a deal they didnt want. 
Whether the £999  fee was excessive
Banks can charge  fees for booking fixed rate mortgage deals. This service doesnt  comment  
on the level of those fees. However,  lenders do themselves have to pay charges for booking  
funding on the money  markets for fixed periods. So the fee which  Mr and Mrs F were 
charged wasnt just a fee for the admin of setting up the same  rate. 
And as with the rate, it was for Mr and Mrs F to decide at the time whether or not they 
thought the fee was excessive. They chose to go ahead at the time and didnt complain for 
some four years.
I can also see from the banks records that in September  2014 the bank had five year fixed  
rate products which  had a rate of 3.19% with a £999  fee, or a rate of 3.39% without a fee. Mr 
and Mrs F chose  the former, and from the calculations for their balance and term, this would 
have been the cheaper  option  for them. They decided to add it to their balance which would 
have increased  what  they paid overall, but it was still cheaper than taking a higher  interest  
rate without a fee. 
Not being given any other product  options and not being told about  the booking  fee until the 
end of the call, which  was pressurised  
As I dont have the call recording from the September 2014 conversation,  I cant  tell for sure 
what product options Mr and Mrs F were  offered. Nor can I tell whether it was a pressurised 
Ref: DRN52146904call, or when  they were told about  the booking fee. But ultimately,  it was for Mr and Mrs F to 
decide what they wanted to do. They didnt have  to change their product at all in September 
2014. 
And there were safeguards in place for them. The offer was sent to them  in writing, so they 
knew what they were signing up to. And there  was the 14 day cooling off period. So I 
consider there were  sufficient safeguards to protect  them against pressurised  selling.  Mr and 
Mrs F didnt  use these,  and didnt complain until some four years later.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5214690