K820x#14complaint
Miss C and her representative are unhappy that a County Court judgement (CCJ) was 
entered against her and recorded on her credit file in respect of a claim that was made  
against her and dealt with on her Aviva Insurance Limited motor insurance  policy.  She says 
this has caused  her stress, inconvenience and impacted on her business. She wants  the 
adverse information  removed  promptly  from the court record  and her credit file. She wants 
£2,000 compensation and if it remains on her record for longer a further £1,000  for each  
year it remains.  
background
Aviva said that the CCJ had been  satisfied and itd asked  its solicitors to remove  the CCJ 
and enforcement from Miss Cs record. And itd asked them  to apply to the court  for a 
certificate of satisfaction. Itd also offered  Miss C £500 compensation and said it would 
review this if more documentation  was provided. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
The CCJ arose while Aviva awaited  proof of repairs from the third partys garage. 
After being told of the notice of enforcement on 14 February 2019 Aviva acted quickly  
and a few days  later instructed its solicitors to remove the CCJ.
But the CCJ is still appearing  on the court records  according to an online Registry 
Trust search. It has confirmed it notified  the credit  reference  agencies to remove the 
CCJ from their records. And if it remained after a week  Miss C should contact the 
relevant agency.  As the CCJ is still appearing on the search Avivas  solicitors have 
applied for a certificate of satisfaction  from the court.  But getting this is dependent on 
the courts backlog. 
Miss C says this has impacted her business as self employed  hairdresser and clients  
have cancelled appointments.  But its unlikely  clients would search the court  register 
before making  an appointment  for a haircut.  She also says she wasnt able to apply 
for credit on store purchases or for work  equipment. And a loan has had to be put on 
hold. But evidence  of the impact of all this hasnt been provided.  
Avivas approach to the removal of the CCJ is reasonable  and it should no longer be 
on Miss Cs credit file. It acted promptly to remove the CCJ and has started the 
process of removing it from the court record.  On the available evidence  its offer of 
£500 compensation is fair. 
Miss Cs representative remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He has 
repeated that the CCJ has had a financial and emotional impact on Miss C.
Aviva has recently confirmed its solicitors are currently taking steps  with the court to resolve 
matters. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58929942Its clear that Miss C has been  caused distress  and inconvenience by whats happened  at a 
time when  shes also unfortunately had to deal with some health issues.
Even so, as the investigator has said, Aviva  acted promptly to remove  the CCJ and started  
the process of removing  it from the court record. Its solicitors have also recently confirmed 
its awaiting an order from the court. 
It seems  that this matter  has been  ongoing  for rather longer than is ideal. But the evidence  
suggests this delay isnt Avivas  fault. It appears to be caused by factors  outside its control 
including the time the legal process  takes  including for the various  parties solicitors  to deal 
with matters and delays with the court because of its backlog.
Miss C and her representative also havent  provided any evidence  to support her suggestion  
that shes lost business  as a hairdresser or suffered a quantifiable financial loss as a result  
of the information recorded.
Consequently although I sympathise with the situation Miss C has inadvertently  found  
herself in I dont think on balance, and on the available evidence, that I can fairly or 
reasonably require Aviva to pay her any more compensation than the £500 it has already 
offered.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think this is a fair 
and reasonable offer.  And I simply leave it to Miss C to now decide if she wants  to accept it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5892994