K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2003. Mrs G says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs G took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs G says that she has no idea she was paying  for PPI, and that she wouldve declined 
the policy if shes been given the option to do so. But I think  that FICL made it clear that 
she didnt have  to take out PPI and that she chose  to take it out. Although I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so long ago. I say this because FICL 
has provided a copy  of Mrs Gs store card application, and I can see that the PPI is 
presented as an optional product, and Mrs G has signed to select it. This is separate to 
her signature for the card.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said about  not being aware that she was signing for 
additional insurance that would be an extra cost on her account.  But looking at Mrs Gs store 
card application,  I can see that the section for PPI (which Mrs G has signed)  also contains 
the wording Yes I would  like to protect  my Account with Account  Cover (subject to eligibility). 
Please debit my Account  with the relevant monthly  premium until further  notice. So I think  it 
was made  clear that there  would be a cost involved,  so this point doesnt change  my 
decision. And for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN54252192Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5425219