K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  that Unum Ltd wont reinstate the monthly benefit under a group income 
protection policy she had the benefit  of when she became too ill to work,  having returned 
back to work  on a phased  return.
background
In early 2017, Ms W was diagnosed with leukaemia  and became  absent from work. At the 
time she was in the early stages of pregnancy. She had the benefit of a group income  
protection policy (the policy) through her employer, which can pay out a portion of her 
income after shes been off work for a period of time (the deferred period). 
A claim  was made under the policy, which was accepted and Unum started to pay the 
monthly benefit due under  the policy after the deferred period expired in May 2017.  
After Ms Ws first round  of chemotherapy, she elected to have a caesarean section. Very 
sadly her and her husbands son died shortly  after birth.  
Ms Ws chemotherapy  treatment finished  in June 2017 and she was subsequently advised 
that her leukaemia was in remission. 
During this time, Ms W was attending counselling  sessions  and in July 2017, she was 
referred for psychological  therapy by her GP due to increasing anxiety. She wasnt  
prescribed with any medication to manage her anxiety at that time.
Unum reviewed the claim and spoke  with Ms W in December 2017. She said she was 
planning to return  to work, initially  on a phased basis, in the New Year. As a result, Unum 
decided to make an advanced  payment of the benefit covering Ms W up to 31 March 2018 
as it concluded,  by then, she was likely to have  returned back to the role she was doing 
before she was too ill to work,  on a full time basis. But her benefit would cease from that 
date. 
Unum was informed in early April 2018  that Mrs W hadnt worked a full week since  returning  
to work in February  2018 and had taken a number of days off sick from work.
Unum requested updated medical records from Ms Ws GP and upon  review of them, 
concluded that there was nothing to suggest,  from a medical perspective, that Ms W wasnt  
able to perform the material and substantial duties of her role at that time.
In June 2018, so around four months  after she returned to work, Ms W was signed off sick 
by her GP due to depression and anxiety. She sought to make a further claim on the policy.  
Once again, Unum  requested updated  copies of her medical records from her GP and 
concluded that Ms Ws symptoms didnt  require significant treatment or any onward referrals. 
It concluded that the medical evidence didnt support  any restrictions  or limitations  to her 
daily living.  So it didnt reinstate her claim.
Unhappy, Ms W complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms W disagrees so her complaint has now been  passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and make a decision.
Ref: DRN56212242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before  I explain why, I want to assure Ms W that my 
decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the health  issues shes suffered; I can see 
that she has been through a very difficult time over the past few years and this, undoubtedly,  
wouldve had an enormous  impact on her and her family. But for the reasons below, I dont 
think Unum has unfairly declined to pay the monthly benefit under the policy  after she was 
signed off sick by her GP from June 2018.  I know she will be disappointed, but hopefully, 
shell understand the reasons for my decision when I explain why. 
Unum has a duty to handle complaints  promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members  income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if he/she is unable,  by reason of their illness to perform  
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation  and is not performing 
any occupation
Insured occupation  means: the trade,  profession or general role that the member  
was actively undertaking for, or at, the employer  immediately prior to incapacity
Illness means: ill-health or disease  as evidenced  by a significant  or objectively 
determined deterioration in physical or mental  health.
So the focus is on whether Ms W was unable to perform  the role she was doing  before she 
was absent from work because of her illness. 
Im not a medical  expert  so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Unum has unfairly  declined Ms Ws claim. 
February 2017  June  2018:
Unum accepted that Ms W was incapacitated  throughout  the deferred  period and started  
paying the monthly benefit from May 2017.  
Based on the medical evidence as at the end of 2017, and because  Ms W said she was 
planning to return  to work early in the New Year,  I dont think Unum unreasonably 
concluded, at that stage,  that Ms W should be able to return  to work to undertake the 
material and substantial duties of the role shed previously been doing by 31 March  2018. It 
paid her up to that date,  as I wouldve expected.
It transpired that Ms W did return to work in February 2018. However, she didnt  return  to 
work on a full time basis as anticipated  at the start of April 2018. Upon discovering this, 
Unum promptly  reviewed  its decision  and obtained  Ms Ws updated medical  records - as I 
wouldve reasonably  expected it to do. 
Ref: DRN56212243Ive thought about whether Unum  shouldve paid a proportionate benefit during the period 
April to June 2018; until Ms W was signed  off work  by her GP.
Under the policy, a proportionate benefit may be paid if :
the member is incapacitated but is performing the insured occupation  on a 
reduced basis and .. the members  adjusted  pre-incapacity earnings are higher 
than the members current earnings
But in this case, from the date on which the monthly benefit ceased  at the end of 
March 2018  until Ms W was signed  off work by her GP in June 2018  - the employer has 
said that Ms W had a number of days off sick for which she received full pay under its sick 
pay policy. Its also said she took a number of days annual leave and thats  consistent  with 
what Ms W says. As such, Ms W has confirmed that she received full pay during that period. 
As her earnings during  that period didnt exceed or pre-incapacity earnings,  I dont think  the 
proportionate benefit is applicable  in this particular complaint.
Further, in light of Ms Ws medical records covering the period January to April 2018, I dont 
think Unum has unreasonably concluded  that, medically, there  wasnt  anything to indicate 
that Ms W was incapacitated  and unable to return to work on a full time basis,  carrying out 
the material and substantial duties of her role by 1 April 2018.  Her leukaemia remained in 
remission, and she wasnt receiving any ongoing  treatment for this.
I am aware  that Ms W had, very sadly, suffered a miscarriage in early 2018.  And I dont 
underestimate the impact  this is likely  to have had on Ms W and her family at that time. Her 
employer has also confirmed that she had 16 days off work  sick around the time of Ms Ws 
miscarriage. 
However, her medical records  from around  that time dont reflect that any concerns were  
raised about her mental health  and although she mightve been undergoing  counselling  and 
therapy, theres  nothing  to suggest that she wasnt able to work as a result of anxiety and /or 
depression. 
So, at that stage, I dont think Unum  has unreasonably concluded that Ms W was 
incapacitated at the start of April 2018. The evidence doesnt support  that she had an illness 
of such severity to prevent her from carrying out her required duties  at that time.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that Ms W had been off work for around a 
year before returning  in February 2018 and during that time, had experienced a series of 
tragic, and life-changing events. Ive asked both Ms W and Unum whether her employer 
referred Ms W to occupational health during this time. Ms W says it didnt  although  she 
says her employers HR department, and manager,  were aware  that she wasnt coping very 
well at the time and was trying her best to manage  how she felt. Unum has said it has no 
record of Mrs Ws employer referring her to occupational health. 
I asked the parties  about this because an occupational health physician may have  been  able 
to give an insight into what  was going on at the time,  how Ms W was managing at work, any 
adjustments that mightve been needed to put in place (particularly in the short term) to help 
with Ms Ws phased  return  to work  and to advise when she was likely to be able to resume  
her full duties on a full time basis. However,  I dont think I can reasonably hold Unum 
responsible for the lack of occupational health  involvement, particularly as Ms W had 
informed it back in December 2017 that she felt ready to return back  to work. Any assistance 
she needed when  back at work  is a matter between her and her employer. 
Ref: DRN56212244June 2018 onwards:
Ms W was signed off work  by her GP with depression  in June 2018. She didnt return back  to 
work before starting a period of maternity leave  in 2019. Ms W has confirmed that her 
maternity leave is due to end soon.
Ive considered whether Unum has fairly and reasonably concluded  that Ms Ws further  
period of long term absence  from work  which commenced in June 2018 didnt amount to a 
linked claim under the policy.
The policy says:
upon having  first returned to actively working with the employer following incapacity, 
if a member suffers further periods of incapacity  greater  than two weeks  (whether 
arising from the same cause or not), there will be no requirement for a further  
deferred period  in respect of such further periods of incapacity, if both of the following 
conditions are met:
Benefit was paid in respect of the member for the first period of incapacity; 
and
The member is absent from work  for any subsequent period of incapacity 
within 52 weeks from their return to work from the previous  period of 
incapacity greater  than two weeks
Both of these conditions  were met in Ms Ws case,  and even if there wasnt  an underlying 
connection between  the anxiety and depression  Ms W was signed off work sick for in June 
2018 and the reason why she remained off sick throughout the deferred period starting 
February 2017 (namely her leukaemia diagnosis),  according to the policy  definition  above, 
there doesnt need to be.
So the crux of the issue is whether Ms W had actively returned to work before her second 
period of long term sickness, and whether  she was incapacitated from June 2018. If she 
was, then her absence from work since June 2018 would amount to a linked  claim and Ms W 
wouldnt need to be incapacitated throughout the entirety of a second  deferred period, 
starting June 2018.
actively returned to work is defined as:
Ms W having  not received medical advice to refrain from work and is actively 
undertaking the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation;  and
Is working the number  of hours  required by the employer.
I make  no finding on whether Unum has fairly concluded  that Ms W hadnt actively returned  
to work by June 2018. Because even if I was persuaded that it hadnt,  Im satisfied  that its 
fairly concluded that she didnt meet the definition of incapacity in June 2018.
Ms W has told us that she had a number  of symptoms including:
severe anxiety resulting in a very distressed state and negative  thoughts
weight loss
very bad sleep issues
Ref: DRN56212245concentration issues
repeated and uncontrolled panic attacks
issues with being around groups
She also says she needed a parent  to move in with her for two months  to care for her as she 
was unable to be left on her own when her husband  was at work, and that she had 
numerous appointments (some emergency) with her GP to deal with depression and anxiety. 
Although, I accept that Ms Ws GP referred  to Ms W reporting that she had poor 
concentration, negative thoughts and a poor sleep pattern in a letter  dated October 2018, 
theres no mention  of those symptoms  or the other  symptoms shes  mentioned   in her GP 
notes covering the period  May to early  August 2018. 
On 1 May 2018,  when Ms W was back at work,  its reflected that her anxiety levels  had 
increased recently. And a month later, its reflected  that the level of anxiety and low mood  
had worsened. She was prescribed an anti-depressant. Theres  also reference to her being 
referred to a psychologist who would develop  a programme for her. 
A week later, its reflected  that shed stopped taking the anti-depressant as it made  her feel 
funny within minutes of taking it and she was prescribed a different anti-depressant. She 
describes having  ups and downs  all week. And on 2 July 2018,  her GP notes reflect  that 
she hadnt started with the new anti-depressant  and was feeling a little better than she did. 
Ms W has told us that whilst she knew she needed anti-depressant medication, the sole 
reason she didnt take it was through fear of it being detrimental to the fertility treatment she 
was commencing.  However, her GP notes  dated 8 June 2018  reflects  that Ms W told them  
that her IVF consultant  would be happy  with any anti-depressant medication  her GP wanted 
to prescribe and that shed like to try the second anti-depressant (the first one having  not 
agreed with her). 
Ive also taken into account a letter form Ms Ws GP dated September 2019 which says they:
helped her through a severe episode of depression and anxiety from summer 2018  
through to April 2019. In my opinion she was not capable of performing her duties in 
her senior role  and for help to have contemplated engaging with her job would 
have been detrimental to her health.
However, Im conscious that this was written  15 months after her second period of absence  
and although its by the same treating GP, Ive placed more weight on the actual notes they 
made at the time - which dont go into any detail about the manifestation  of her symptoms 
and the impact they had on her ability to work  rather than their more recent recollection. 
Further, the GPs letter doesnt  explain why, specifically,  Ms W wasnt  able to perform her 
duties at the time.
So, all in all, Im not persuaded  based  on the medical evidence available   that Unum has 
unfairly concluded Ms W wasnt incapacitated  in the period immediately after she was 
absent from work in June  2018. It follows that I dont think its unfairly  declined  to treat that 
second period  of absence  as being linked  to the first, and not pay a linked benefit.
Ref: DRN56212246my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 18 March  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5621224