K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct)  dealt poorly with their 
application for mortgage borrowing,  made mistakes and did not rectify  them  when they 
complained.
background
Mr and Mrs H had an existing mortgage  with HSBC. They contacted it when they wanted  to 
take a new mortgage to buy a bigger property. They are unhappy about the process  and 
incorrect information they were given. And that the credit searches were  not carried  out 
correctly and they were  not told about this. They  were not able to buy the property they 
wanted. They had ongoing problems when they instead decided  to increase the mortgage on 
their existing property. And they dont feel HSBC dealt with their complaint properly or has 
offered sufficient redress. It has offered to pay them a total of £500 in compensation.
The investigator did not recommend it do anything more than it had offered to already. He 
said that:
-HSBC accepts that when it first spoke with Mr and Mrs H on the phone  about their 
application not all the relevant information about Mr Hs own financial commitments  
was collected.  This meant that they werent  given  an accurate indication  of how much  
they could borrow.
-They then had to provide further  information which  he understood was frustrating.
-A credit check for Mr H incorrectly used  the date of birth for Mrs H. This created a 
needless search footprint and a financial alias. He agreed  that HSBC  should have 
been pro-active  in telling Mrs H what had happened and that it was going to be 
corrected.
-Mr and Mrs H had received conflicting  information about what was going to be 
needed for an application to increase their existing mortgage.
-They are unhappy at the way their complaint was dealt with; that they were not 
consistently dealt  with by a manager  as theyd asked; and that they received 
correspondence unrelated to their complaint.
-HSBC had gone out of its way to try and make up for its mistakes by proceeding with 
a further application without credit  checks and arranging a same  day mortgage 
advice call. It had acknowledged the errors  and had said it would be providing 
feedback to those involved.
-He did not consider  that the property purchase  had fallen through due to the errors 
made.
-He thought that the offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H did not agree and made detailed comments about their complaint. In 
summary, they did not think  the investigator  had understood  the majority of their case. And 
he had asked for information  about the impact on the credit  file and had not taken  this into 
account before reaching his opinion. This error could  have cost thousands of pounds and it 
was only by Mrs Hs actions that it came to light. It has still not been corrected. 
Regarding the property  purchase they said they were still in a position to proceed but due to 
the time spent by HSBC and the mistakes someone  else had put in a higher offer.  They 
were not unhappy  to provide additional documents but complain that HSBC could not work 
out what it needed and asked for even more  information.  They  could have used existing 
equity in the property to make the purchase  but preferred  to use a mortgage.
Ref: DRN50623702Regarding the additional  borrowing  request  there was conflicting  information about what  was 
required. And then the complaint was handled poorly. There were inadequate  security 
procedures and as they were not put through to a manager at first they had to reiterate all 
the complaint  points.  
They do not accept  HSBC went out of its way. A pre booked call had been missed  so thats 
why for example  they were  called in the evening.
They want  me to look at the number of errors; loss of a new property; and the time, money, 
stress and inconvenience due to what happened. Apologies and feedback do not fix these.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
credit file
Im going  to deal with this first as Mrs H says that this is still not corrected. It is not in dispute 
that HSBC made an error with the search.  Mrs H has provided  a credit file report  dated  
September 2018 showing a new association had been created on her file with a Mr H with 
her date of birth. She also shows that there  were  no notices of correction on that file.
I asked that HSBC be contacted for its comments about this. It assured me that the errors 
stemming from the search have been rectified and that the financial association  has been 
removed. It provided an extract from a credit reference agency note confirming this. I note 
that the report from Mrs H is dated September 2018  and that it is unlikely that a credit  
reference agency would have made a change straightaway. I also wouldnt expect that to 
show as a notice  of correction  thats  a section for comments  say by Mrs H. Id expect the 
financial association to be removed  totally.
Based on what Ive seen  Im not persuaded that this error still persists. And although I fully 
understand what could have happened  as a result  of an error I need to focus on what  did 
and whether there was an actual financial loss. Ive not seen evidence to suggest that there  
was. I fully accept that it should not have  needed Mrs Hs active involvement for this to be 
resolved and Ill be taking that into account when I look at compensation below.
mortgage application
I dont think that the circumstances of the process  are in dispute  here.  But I do want  to add a 
bit of detail to whats already been said to set out the timescales  involved.  Thats  going to 
help me assess the impact. Im working  here from case  file notes provided by HSBC  about 
the contact and actions involved and Ive seen what Mr and Mrs H say in their complaint:
15 August 2018   Mr H calls HSBC to discuss a new mortgage saying he had viewed a 
house but had not put an offer in and that their house was not on the market.  HSBC says it 
told him the application process would take six to eight weeks  from when they had an 
advice call. Before  that HSBC needed further information. Notably details of Mr Hs 
personal borrowing  were  not collected  and Mr and Mrs H were not told that the underwriter 
might need  more information. An indicative borrowing level of £283,500 was provided.
21 August 2018   the supporting information had been received by HSBC  the day before. 
And Mrs H called to ask about the application.  Reference was made to the underwriters who 
Ref: DRN50623703agreed to progress the application on what had been received. An advice appointment was 
booked for 28 August  2018. Mr H called in to disclose  additional  borrowing which reduced 
the indicative amount  of lending to £206,640.
22 August 2018- Mrs H discussed plans with HSBC  to repay  some  existing  borrowing  and 
cut some personal expenditure. This meant  that borrowing of £264,000 could be possible.
23 August 2018   Mrs H complained and was offered compensation of £125 which has since  
been paid. She spoke  to an advisor  and an agreement was given  subject to confirmation of 
some borrowing being repaid and a satisfactory  valuation.
3 September 2018  the issue  with the credit  file searches was raised by Mrs H and HSBC 
said it would  address this.
4 September 2018-  the department manager  called Mrs H and said her complaint was being  
looked into.
10 September 2018- Mrs H called and said they were no longer thinking about buying the 
new property and looking instead at home improvements. HSBC wrongly told her that they 
would not have to complete a new application  for this. A holding  letter  about  the complaint 
was sent to her and in error  an unrelated standard letter  sent to her.
11 September 2018- Mrs H called and said that their purchase had fallen through for definite 
and they wanted to go ahead with additional  borrowing. She was unhappy to find out a new 
application would be required. A recommendation call was arranged  for that evening  and the 
recommendation provided. She was unhappy not to have been put through to a manager  in 
the complaints  department.
14 September 2018- Mrs H discussed her complaint with a complaints department manager.
26 September 2018 a final response  offering total compensation of £500  was issued. Mrs H 
did not accept  this (and subsequently HSBC has said it would not be increased).
9 October 2018  the additional borrowing  was opened.
the purchase of the property that fell through
Mr and Mrs H said on their complaint form to this service that a reduction in the indicative 
mortgage to £206,000 put their idea of buying  a bigger property out of the question.  They 
went on to say that a figure of £264,000 was feasible but not in the way theyd hoped for. 
The equity in their current property was intended  to be used  on renovations. Theyve  said in 
their response to the investigators opinion that due to the time taken by HSBC  and all of its 
mistakes another  buyer put in an offer and bought the property.
I understand their frustration and disappointment to find that HSBC was only prepared to 
lend them less than they expected. That seemed to have become clear within two days  of 
them providing information it had asked for. And that was within  a week of their initial  
contact. Im not clear  whether and when they made an offer on the property. And I cannot be 
sure how any bidding  contest with another party involved would have gone. But based on 
the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that the delay or errors  by HSBC were  the cause 
of them  losing the opportunity to buy the property.  HSBC say they had an agreement in 
Ref: DRN50623704principle by 22 August  2018. And it seems  that they decided not to pursue the purchase 
confirming this in September 2018.
the errors
I hope Mr and Mrs H think Ive given  a fair overview  of the incorrect  statements made to 
them. And I understand that they needed  to provide more information.  That is not unusual 
although I accept  here contributed to their distress. Its clear  that they were able to take the 
additional borrowing  they wanted on their property. Ive weighed up the actions HSBC took 
and what Mr and Mrs H said that they expected it to do to try and mitigate some of the errors 
in any event.
the compensation
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H are not happy with the way their complaint was dealt with. And I 
think HSBC has accepted failings. Although an apology in itself was not sufficient I think  that 
was an acknowledgement of the errors. I need to decide whether the compensation offered 
is reasonable to reflect  the distress and inconvenience that has been  caused here and the 
impact of what happened. Ive reviewed carefully  everything theyve said, especially about  
the issue with the credit  file which I know Mrs H said was very concerning.
Ive considered this taking  into account our published guidelines about trouble and upset and 
using my own judgement.  Having done so I find HSBCs offer to be a fair one. I know  Mr and 
Mrs H will remain dissatisfied with this.
my final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has made an offer to pay total compensation of £500 (which means a 
further £375 payment now) to settle  the complaint  and I think  that this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision  is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay Mr and Mrs H the further 
£375 it has offered  to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5062370