K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  handled his claim on his
motor insurance policy.
Background
Mr W was involved  in a car accident that wasnt his fault. At first, he decided to claim against  
the other drivers policy  instead  of asking his own insurer Admiral to handle his claim.
Mr W decided  he wasnt happy with how the other  drivers  insurer  was handling the claim, so 
asked Admiral to take over the claim. It agreed to take over and progress the claim through  
Mr Ws motor insurance policy.
Mr W wanted to use his own choice  of garage to repair his car. Admiral  agreed,  and asked 
Mr W to provide it with estimates. Which he did, from two garages.
Mr W spoke with both the other  drivers insurer and his own about  whether his car should be 
written off or repaired.  He thought the estimates  showed his car was uneconomical to repair 
and should be written off. Admiral  disagreed.  It thought the estimates  showed  it was 
economical to repair  Mr Ws car. Admiral offered to have Mr Ws car inspected by an 
independent assessor. Mr W didnt accept this offer  he didnt think the assessor would be 
able to conclude  anything different to the estimates that had already been provided.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ws car should  be transported to an approved  
manufacturers repairer for them to carry out a report  on the damage.
Both Mr W and Admiral  agreed for this inspection to be carried  out by a garage of Mr Ws 
choosing. Admiral said it would pay the associated costs  including  the cost of transporting  
the vehicle to and from the inspection site. But it said it was Mr Ws responsibility to arrange 
the inspection.
The manufacturers repairers report showed  more  damage to Mr Ws car than had been  
highlighted by the previous estimates, meaning the cost to repair  Mr Ws car was now 
considerably more.
Admiral paid Mr W the fee the repairer  charged  for carrying  out the inspection and it paid him 
the cost of transporting  his car. But the repairer  also charged £108 for two days  storage  
which Admiral said it isnt responsible for. Its said it should have been possible  for the 
vehicle to be taken  to and from the repairer  the same day and it never agreed it would pay 
for storage.
Due to the increased  cost of the repairs in the report from the manufacturer, Admiral wanted 
an independent assessor to confirm  the listed repairs  were  necessary. Admiral agreed Mr W 
could instruct the assessor himself  and said it would cover the cost of the report.
Mr W instructed  the assessor and paid £270 for the report. Admiral  said that had it instructed 
the assessor, it would  only have  cost it £110  so this was the most it needed to pay Mr W. 
After receiving the independent  assessors  report, Admiral wrote  off Mr Ws car and settled 
his claim in full.
Ref: DRN56382602Mr W remained unhappy with Admirals handling  of his claim.  Hes said the advice Admiral 
gave him about  his car being written off was misleading. Hes unhappy  Admiral  havent paid 
him the storage charge from the manufacturers repairer or the full amount of the 
independent report. Mr W also complains that due to the length of time taken  to settle the 
claim, hes had to make payments to his finance  agreement without having use of his car. 
Hes unhappy he wasnt provided a courtesy  car, meaning hes had to spend  money  getting  
to work and social arrangements. Hes also unhappy hes had to pay a £91.67  fine for not 
declaring his car was off the road. He thinks Admiral  should cover  these costs. 
Admiral maintained their stance, but acknowledged they could have given Mr W clearer 
information on whether  his car would be written  off or not. They offered Mr W £50 in 
recognition of this.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be partly upheld. He recommended  Admiral  
pay Mr W the two days  storage cost and the full cost of the independent report. He also 
thought Admiral should pay Mr W £500  compensation for inaccurate  and misleading 
information given  to Mr W throughout  the claim.
Neither Mr W nor Admiral  agreed to our investigators findings, so the case  was been 
passed to me to determine.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 August 2019 setting out my findings.  My provisional  
decision was subject  to further arguments  and submissions from both Mr W and Admiral.  I 
said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding 
Mr Ws complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point Mr W has raised.  My role is to look 
at the complaint as a whole, consider the evidence presented by Mr W and the business, 
and reach  what I think is an independent,  fair, and reasonable decision. In deciding  whats 
fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the relevant laws, regulations and best industry 
practice.
Mr W is unhappy with how the other  drivers insurer dealt with his claim. But I cant hold 
Admiral responsible for another  businesss actions. This decision concerns the actions  of 
Admiral and how it acted  in relation to Mr Ws claim.
The terms of Mr Ws policy  say Admiral will decide  how to settle Mr Ws claim.  This means  
its for Admiral to choose whether  it wants to repair Mr Ws car, pay him the cost of the 
repair, or write off his car by paying him the market value. This means  Admiral  can make a 
decision that Mr W might not necessarily agree with. But Admiral still need  to act fairly when 
deciding whether to repair  the car or not. Admiral has acknowledged it entered  into 
discussions about what would be needed to write off his car with Mr W when it shouldnt 
have. And I think these discussions have caused Mr W unnecessary stress and loss of 
expectation.
Mr Ws policy also says that if Admiral  decides to repair Mr Ws car, it will do so at one of its 
approved repairers.  The policy says Mr W can choose to have his car repaired at a garage  
Ref: DRN56382603of his choice,  but if he chooses to do so, Admiral  will need  two estimates. Im satisfied 
Admiral acted in line with Mr Ws policy when  it said hed need more than one estimate if he 
didnt want to have  his car repaired  with one if its approved repairers. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Admiral influenced any of these estimates. 
Based on these estimates, Admiral decided it would try and repair Mr Ws car. I understand 
later reports  uncovered more damage, which meant Admirals decision changed, but I think 
Admiral was entitled to rely on the estimates  provided by Mr Ws chosen  repairers.  And 
based on those  estimates, its decision to try to repair  the car was reasonable.
Mr W is unhappy he wasnt provided  a courtesy  car throughout his claim. His policy is clear 
in saying Admiral will only provide a courtesy car if the repair was being carried  out by one of 
its approved repairers.  As Mr W chose to use his own repairers, and the car was ultimately 
written off, Im satisfied Admiral acted in line with Mr Ws policy by not providing a courtesy 
car. And as Admiral werent  obliged  to provide Mr W with alternative transport, it doesnt 
need to reimburse  Mr W for any travel  costs he incurred while he wasnt able to use his car.
During the claim Admiral  offered to arrange  and pay for an independent  assessor to inspect 
the vehicle. I understand Mr W had his reasons for not agreeing to this, but had he agreed, 
its likely  the report would  have helped to confirm if it was economical for the car to be 
repaired or not.
Following our investigators recommendation, both parties agreed for the vehicle to be 
collected and transported  to a garage of Mr Ws choosing for inspection. Mr W organised  the 
transport after Admiral  had agreed it would cover  the cost, and that of the inspection. 
Admiral says Mr W should have ensured  his car was picked up, inspected and returned to 
him on the same day. Its said had it arranged the inspection it would have made sure this 
happened, and so no storage costs  would have been incurred.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that had Admiral made  the arrangements,  the process  
wouldve been completed within a single day and no storage charges wouldve been  
charged. Nor have I seen anything to show Admiral made it clear to Mr W that the process 
needed to be completed in a day. I dont  consider  delivering the vehicle to the garage  one 
day, the inspection taking  place the next day, and the car being returned to Mr Ws address 
the following  day was excessive. So I think its reasonable  that Admiral  pay the storage cost 
of £108, plus 8% simple  interest to Mr W, as ultimately, this was all part of the inspection that 
was agreed.
The inspection report showed the extent of damage was far greater than had first been 
estimated. Based on this report, the repairs to Mr Ws car wouldve cost much  more than had 
previously been  quoted.  After receiving this report Admiral said it needed  to confirm the 
costs of the work, and make sure everything  listed on it was related to the accident.
 Admiral said it would cover the cost of this report in a call, but agreed  Mr W could choose 
who carried it out. The report cost Mr W £270.  I appreciate Admiral  has said had it arranged 
the report it would have cost them £110, but they agreed to let Mr W arrange the report, and 
agreed to cover the cost. Admiral should  honour this agreement  and pay Mr W the full cost 
of the report, including 8% simple interest.
Ref: DRN56382604With regards to the SORN penalty  Mr W incurred, I agree with our investigator, for much of 
the same  reasons, so I dont require Admiral  to pay Mr W the cost of the fine. It wasnt  for 
Admiral to have notified DVLA  that the vehicle  wasnt fit to drive  it remained Mr Ws 
responsibility to have either taxed his vehicle or reported it as off road  by the required date. 
Mr W thinks Admiral caused  avoidable delays during his claim. But Ive not seen any 
evidence of this.
On the whole, Im satisfied Admiral processed  information in a reasonable time frame  and 
actively chased responses. I dont think its reasonable  to hold Admiral responsible for any 
delays caused  by Mr Ws chosen repairers. As Im satisfied  Admiral didnt cause any 
unavoidable or unnecessary delays to Mr Ws claim,  Im not asking it to reimburse  any 
finance payments  Mr W made  to his finance  provider.
I note what Mr W has said about the trouble and upset he believes Admiral has caused him 
to suffer.  And Ive considered why Admiral thinks a payment of £50 represents  sufficient 
compensation. Our investigator thought a payment of £500 would better reflect  the impact of 
the errors  he thought the business had made and Ive considered his reason for this 
recommendation.
I agree  Admiral provided information to Mr Ws about whether his car would be repaired or 
written off. This led to Mr W focussing on this issue instead of concentrating on getting his 
car repaired, when  ultimately it wasnt his decision to make. Im also mindful Admiral told 
Mr W they would pay for things and then declined to do so. This resulted in Mr W suffering 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience.
I dont think the £50 offer from Admiral is sufficient. I think  a fair offer of compensation would 
be for Admiral to pay Mr W £200  compensation for the loss of expectation and trouble and 
upset caused.
Its likely  my provisional decision  isnt what Mr W wants to hear. But while I realise hell be 
unhappy with what Ive said, Im satisfied my findings represent  a fair and reasonable 
outcome to his complaint.
I explained that for the reasons I gave, but subject to any further submissions, I was thinking 
of partly upholding the complaint and my provisional  decision was to require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr W:
£108 plus interest (at 8% simple per annum) from the date Mr W paid the storage fee
to the repairer  to the date of settlement
£160 plus interest (at 8% simple per annum) from the date Mr W paid the
independent assessor to the date of settlement
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr W and Admiral  responded to my provisional  decision.
Admiral said it would only make payment on receipt of Mr Ws acceptance  of my decision.  It 
said it required a copy of the invoices for the independent assessors report  and the storage 
Ref: DRN56382605fee. It also wanted further clarification on whether my requirement  of £200 compensation 
was in addition  to, or inclusive of, the £50 it had already paid.
Mr W wanted clarification on why I was only requiring Admiral  to pay £160  for the 
independent assessors report and not the full £270 hed had to pay.
He was also unhappy with the level of compensation I was requiring Admiral  to pay. He said 
Admiral were responsible  for delays, and that he provided evidence his car shouldve been 
written off much earlier in the process.  Hes said all this caused him a lot of stress and 
anxiety.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments and taken into consideration the 
points now made to decide whats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded to alter my findings so my decision remains  the same  as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
The section will only focus on the responses from both Mr W and Admiral, as my findings  
and reasoning are set out above, under  my provisional decision.
Admiral has now been sent the invoices of the independent assessors report  and the 
storage fee. And to clarify, the compensation I require  it to pay is in addition to the £50 its 
already paid Mr W.
Mr W has already  been paid £110  from Admiral  for the independent  assessors report. So 
the £160 I require it to pay is the difference between the total invoice amount of £270, and 
the £110 its already paid to Mr W.
I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling on this case,  and while I acknowledge his response, 
no further evidence  or argument has been submitted that Ive not already considered.  
Therefore, although  this will not be what Mr W wants to hear, Ive no reason  to change what 
I require Admiral to pay him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right for Mr W, I require 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Mr W
£108 plus interest (at 8% simple per annum) from the date Mr W paid the storage fee
to the repairer  to the date of settlement
£160 plus interest (at 8% simple per annum) from the date Mr W paid the
independent assessor to the date of settlement
An additional £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Ref: DRN56382606Joe Thornley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5638260