K822xcomplaint
Miss P complains  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  is chasing  her for debt even 
though she had paid VWFS  was it had told her she owed it.
background 
Miss P entered a hire purchase agreement for a car with VWFS in June 2016. In April 2018, 
Miss P called VWFS to find out how much  interest she would save if she made a partial 
payment of £6,000. After being  given a quote, she made a payment of £6,000 that same 
day. The call handler advised the payment  would  be allocated  to her account  when  it was 
received, but VWFS failed to do so. 
When Miss P called VWFS  on 31 May 2018,  the payment  was found and allocated to her 
agreement. On the same day she also requested an early settlement quote. She was told 
the amount needed to settle  the agreement was £2,670.06. Miss P paid this, but was later 
sent a letter  informing her that £659.88  was left to pay. Miss P queried this and was told 
she'd been  given an incorrect  figure when she requested the settlement quote. The correct 
figure at the time Miss P enquired was actually £3,329.94, meaning £659.88 remained 
unpaid.
Miss P thought it was unfair that she should have to pay anything further. She thought  since  
VWFS had made  the mistake, she shouldn't  have  to pay the outstanding £659.88. She 
complained about this and her complaint was upheld. VWFS explained that while  the 
£659.88 was rightly owed, it accepted it had made a mistake in misinforming  Miss P. It 
therefore agreed to reduce the amount owed by 50%, leaving £329.94 to pay. It also paid 
her £88.05 to refund  the interest she had been  overcharged because  her £6,000 payment 
hadnt been allocated to her account straightaway.
Miss P didn't agree  with this outcome and referred  her complaint to our service. She wanted 
the entire amount left on the agreement to be written  off, due to VWFS mistakenly giving her 
the wrong settlement figure.
In the adjudicators first view he thought  the money outstanding on the agreement was 
rightly owed by Miss P. While it was clear VWFS  had made a mistake  in quoting the wrong 
figure, he thought  the offer it had made to reduce the amount owed by 50% was fair. 
Miss P didn't accept this view.
Since bringing her complaint to our service, Miss Ps car has been stolen. Her finance  
agreement with VWFS is showing as unpaid on her credit  file, due to the remaining balance 
being disputed. Miss P has found  that she can't enter into a new finance agreement, 
because of the impact  this has had on her credit file. 
The adjudicator still thought that Miss P should pay the £329.94 which  is outstanding on the 
agreement. But once this was done, he thought VWFS then needs to correct  Miss P's credit 
file to show it as being  settled as of the date she paid £2,670.06. VWFS  agreed  to amend its 
reports to credit reference agencies once it received £329.94 from Miss P.
Ref: DRN50240872Miss P pointed out when she rang VWFS on 31st May she asked for the final settlement 
figure but this was not given to her the same day. Despite taking 48 hrs it still got the figure 
wrong. She thinks for the inconvenience caused  to her she shouldnt have to pay off the 
outstanding sum.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  VWFS  made an error  when  it failed to apply the £6,000 payment to Miss Ps account. 
I think its response  to reimburse the interest   is fair.
Miss P didnt pay what she owed in order to settle  her debt with VWFS. This wasnt  her fault. 
It was VWFSs  fault. Where  an error  like this has taken place, its not our role to make  that 
error true  i.e. we cant say that a party has the right to rely on something that was done  as 
a mistake. Our role is to ensure that both parties are treated fairly, given all the 
circumstances.
Ordinarily I would look at a case such as this and say that Miss P should  pay VWFS what 
she owes and VWFS should pay Miss P some compensation for the inconvenience and 
disappointment caused.  But VWFS  has approached  things differently. It has offered to right 
off half the debt. And, following  the adjudicators second view, has said it will change what it 
has reported to credit reference  agencies. Overall I think this reaches a fair outcome and so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
Im sorry  to hear Miss Ps car has been stolen.  I did consider  given the issues  Miss P has 
had following the theft because her finance  agreement was not showing as settled  
awarding Miss P more compensation. In the end I decided not to do so. This is because  I 
think VWFS made a fair proposal in its final response letter  and if Miss P had accepted it I 
think she wouldnt have encountered those  problems 
Miss P has said that she didnt make the payment  which she thought would settle the debt 
on the 31 May. So I will order that once Miss P pays VWFS £329.94,  VWFS should  treat the 
debt as though it was settled in full on the date Miss P tried to settle  it in full and report  this to 
credit reference agencies.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  that once Miss P pays  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited £329.94, VWFS should treat the debt as though it was settled in full on the date 
Miss P tried to settle it in full. It should  then report this accordingly to credit reference 
agencies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5024087